ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Ludmila Novak from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. and from 17 p.m. on, Violeta Tomić from 16 p.m. on, mag. Ange Logar, Dr. Franc Trček, Dr Vinko Gorenak from 15.30 to 7.30 p.m., Dr. László Göncz from 19:00 p.m. on in mag. Matthew Tonin from 5 p.m. on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We move on to the 16th A-point of the agenda, that's on the proposal of a candidate for the Ministry without resources, suitable for development, strategic projects and cohesion. On 11 November 2014, the President of the Government, Dr Miroslav Cerar, proposed to the National Assembly that Mrs Alenko Smercolj be appointed Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Dr Miroslav Cerar, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u2	Honorable Assembly, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to substantiate my candidacy and my proposal to appoint Alenka Smerkolj as Minister without a license to take care of development, strategic projects and cohesion. Candidate Alenka Smerkolj comes from the banking sector, where she has worked for more than 25 years in the field of international business and financial markets and has thus gained a wealth of work experience. From 1988 until her appointment as Secretary of State of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy, that was 15 October this year, she was employed in Nova Ljubljanska Banka as Director of Financial Markets; rather as Deputy Director or Director of the Sector. In its current business path, it dealt with bank liquidity management, was responsible for managing its balance sheet, trading financial instruments, investment banking and securities custody. It was also responsible for relations with key international banking partners; it was responsible for monitoring and coordinating the issuance of debt instruments and for facilitating the sale of instruments from the capital market to Slovenian companies. Her rich experience will certainly make a great contribution to the Government and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European cohesion policy. As announced in her presentation to the parent committee, she will work together with colleagues to ensure effective and active coordination of development policies, to maximize the successful absorption of development funds and to successfully complete the preparation of strategic development documents for the 2014-2020 programming period, where the preparation of the Slovenian Development Strategy will also be extremely important. It will keep an eye on the establishment of a government project office for 10 strategic projects or on their implementation, as well as its task to adapt the Government Service to a new perspective on the implementation of European cohesion policy in Slovenia and new challenges. In order to be able to do so, she has demonstrated in recent weeks that she has successfully coordinated the Operational Programme – a key document to draw on €3.2 billion in funding from 2014 to 2020. I am convinced that Alenka Smercolj, as Minister without a charter, will carry out the tasks of development, strategic projects and cohesion and will carry out the tasks entrusted to her professionally, successfully, responsibly, in a committed and fair manner. That is why I propose, honourable Members and Members, that you support Alenko Smercolj as a candidate for Minister without a licence. Thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u3	I thank the Prime Minister for his further explanation. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate presented herself to the Committee on the Economy and responded to questions raised by committee members. You've received the committee's report. The opinion of the Committee will be presented by the Chairman of the Magi. Margareta Guček Zakošek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, Minister and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! The President of the Government shall be the President of the National Assembly 11. 11. 2014 submitted a proposal for a candidate for a Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, in which he proposed to Mrs Alenko Smerkolj as Minister. Alenka Smercolj is 14. 11. 2014 presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee on the Economy. Following the opening presentation of her career path, the proposed candidate stressed the continuation of the vision, which means the important role of the Government Service in contributing to the balanced development and progressive sustainable development of Slovenia. For the mission of the service, she highlighted two guidelines important for improving economic growth and competitiveness and for creating jobs, a better innovative momentum, a balanced development: ensuring effective mechanisms for promoting and systemic coordination of the development of Slovenia, and better placement of European integration, and consequently the possibility of obtaining other available resources for development. The candidate stated and presented in more detail the four pillars of the visions set; the first pillar of the objectives relates to development. The second pillar of the objectives concerns the past financial perspective, the third pillar of the objectives on the future financial perspective. The fourth pillar of the goals focuses on the establishment of a government project office. It also cited the support pillar of the objectives, which relates to employees of the Government Service. In doing so, it stressed the importance and establishment of targeted governance and better communication and thus better inter-departmental integration between ministries. Each of the four pillars was supported by concrete measures to be followed by the service. The candidate also highlighted the need for staff and organisational adjustment of the service to new challenges and listed a number of indicators that will also allow the achievement of the objectives to be carefully measured. She concluded her presentation with a presentation on some of the achievements of the service, in which she also participated as State Secretary in a bad month: the European Commission is 30. 10. endorsed the Partnership Agreement, which focuses Slovenia on 11 thematic objectives, and successfully coordinated the Operational Programme by the Government and the two cohesion regions, thus successfully resolving the issue of halting payments by the European Commission. The panellists were asked a number of questions, which she answered comprehensively to all members and members of the Committee, and informed them of her views and suggestions for action in specific areas that were particularly exposed. At the end of the presentation of the candidate, the Committee on the Economy adopted the opinion that the presentation of Ms Alenka Smerkolj as a candidate for a Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, in its name mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, colleague and colleague! European cohesion policy funds are a key and key instrument for promoting competitiveness and development in Slovenia. It is also the only investment funds available to the country during the crisis. That is why, dear candidate, your key task in this area will be to ensure all conditions for their 100% absorption in both the old and the new financial perspective. The passive role of the former government in drawing on cohesion funds has left serious consequences for at least 34 municipalities and their 11 environmental projects, which, due to the inefficiency of the former Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Government of Development and European Cohesion Policy services, may only be included in the new financial perspective 2014-2020; they will not receive funding from the old financial perspective 2007-2013. This is only provided that these 11 projects meet the criteria for a new perspective. We are talking again about the conditioner and we can rightly ask ourselves, what if they do not meet these criteria and they would be met in the current financial perspective. Of course, the current candidate is not responsible for the irresponsible conduct of the former government and the competent services. Her task will therefore be extremely difficult. At the presentation on the competent parental committee, it showed that the work area is well-known, which is encouraging for the start of its work. As we finally received a confirmed partnership agreement and the government approved the Operational Programme 2014-2020 last Thursday, however, the hope remains that we will be more successful in the new financial perspective and that we will be able to draw on the majority by the end of next year; we would like all the funding from the perspective 2007-2013. Nevertheless, in New Slovenia we are concerned about the statements made by candidate Alenka Smerkolj, who at the presentation expressed doubts about the relevance of sanctioning those officials who are responsible for the poor work done and the irresponsible conduct of those responsible for the loss of European funds. The creation of a new office project for 9 strategic projects, according to our assessment, does not necessarily result in more European funds being drawn up; rather, vice versa. The fact is that coordination between project operators, i.e. between ministries, does not require an intermediate article if all operators carry out their work responsibly. There are also mechanisms within the ministries for efficient performance if we are to establish them. So our country urgently needs development, it needs a new economic policy, which, of course, is not possible without structural reforms, which we constantly warn in New Slovenia. This is why cohesion funds are key and most important investment funds and therefore the role of the Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion policy is extremely high. We want you to gain with your part the status, the informal status of the superminister. In the light of the above and said to Members of New Slovenia, we will not oppose the appointment of candidate Alenka Smerkolj as Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u7	The word is given by the Allied Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, in her name mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u8	Dear President, colleague and colleague! Dear Mrs Alenka Smercolj, candidate for Minister without a license for development and cohesion! You will have in your hands the scissors and canvas development of Slovenia in the coming years, so I suggest that you take care of your ministerial document as soon as possible, as it will be difficult to take care of development without it. Of course, this will not depend solely on you, but you will manage the strongest development potential that we will have in the coming years – cohesion and other European resources. In fact, European funds are the only serious money that Slovenia has at its disposal for development. Our state budget is set aside between high public financial expenditure and the principals with interest on past loans, and therefore resources to invest in larger projects that could stimulate development are relatively small. In front of you and us is a completely unwritten sheet, as a new financial perspective begins, from which we could not get anything. You still have all the resources at your disposal, and you also have the conditions for a successful start. A partnership agreement already drawn up by the government of Alenka Bratušek and endorsed by the European Commission at the end of October. It is similar with the Operational Programme, which has been completed by the current government in these days, and you have personally participated as Secretary of State in its successful final adoption. How we will assess the effectiveness of European spending in 2020 is very relevant to how you will act in the coming year. Your first steps in the 2014-20 perspective will follow the path and we hope that it will be in the right direction. It would be unacceptable to repeat the inactivity and errors of the first Janšev government and later Minister Žerjev, which resulted in the decision-making of municipalities unable to implement projects. Due to this fatal error, the money allocated to Slovenia will remain in the Brussels cash register or will go to those countries that do not share cohesion money in good eyes and in customer-friendship lines. We hope that you have learned something from past stories, and you will not repeat the mistakes of the predecessors. In the first half of next year, you will probably publish the first calls for European funds, followed by a selection and evaluation process. Decisions on a new financial perspective, I believe they come about around summer. This means that the first remittances can only be expected by the end of 2015, and this is also a very optimistic assessment. But nothing to do; if you do well in 2015, the years that follow will also be good. Your first ministerial assignment will be at the same time the most difficult and important. Such a fiery baptism does not have many ministers. This is as far as the coming financial perspective is concerned. With regard to the financial perspective 2007-2013, which will also expire definitively in the coming year, do whatever you can to make sure that the mayors of municipalities who have the cohesion funds that are clearly unable to draw them withdraw from them. Only the mayor of Nova Gorica, Mr Matthew Archon, has done this courageous act so far, and he has given up the imported project and thus saved the money for Slovenia. This has already been attempted by the past government, but it has been easy for many mayors in the local electoral year to over-recognizance their own mistake. Now may be the time when national interests should be put before personal injury. We all know very well how we will be able to engage such funds immediately. We have 11 projects for which everything is already ready and for which a promise has been made that decisions will be issued in a new perspective. Mrs Alenka Smercolj is well on her way to becoming Minister without a license, for development and cohesion. It is also right that by voting on its ministerial candidates, the government majority checks its stability in the National Assembly. We will therefore abstain from voting in the Alliance. But you will have all our support in solving the challenging tasks ahead of you. We wish you every success. We wouldn't lose a lot of words about why we don't have another minister's candidate in front of us. We've already told each other everything. I hope he'll be here soon, in front of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u9	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party, on her behalf, Mr Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members, also welcomed on behalf of the Party Mir Cerar. We have decided to support Mrs Alenko Smercol as a candidate for a Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. Why? After a successful presentation by the competent committee, the candidate can admit that she has the knowledge, motivation, will and desire to put the competent ministry on its feet and that, as she has said, with positive energy and not only by criticising everything and by contrast, she clearly shows her determination. In its 26-year career in the banking sector was the red thread of foreign business, specifically – cooperation with development and investment and commercial banks, which was its most important task. In the SMC Group, we support its decision to follow its vision, followed by its predecessor, Mrs Bulc. These two development guidelines are undoubtedly important, namely to put in place effective mechanisms for the systematic development of Slovenia and, secondly, to make more efficient use of European funds within the framework of European integration. In order to achieve her objectives and visions, she has set, as mentioned above, four pillars and support pillars and objectives that are clearly measurable. It seems very important to us that, given the tight economic situation and limited resources, it takes its mission, among other things, to raise employee satisfaction, to be responsible, positively motivated by new perspectives and new challenges, which will be clearly defined by objectives and by targeted leadership. The candidate points out that major efforts will also need to be made to improve and improve cross-cutting coordination and integration. It will be necessary to clearly overcome this Slovenian training in ministries and to finally realize that openness and cooperation is the only way to move forward. Without a two-way constructive communication, we will do nothing. Knowledge of cooperation with foreign international institutions, which the candidate has, is also one of the important arguments why SMC supports it. And here we also have to focus our efforts on finding and finding new sources of funding; and we are not only relying on Europe, but also on a wider, global one. The Ministry responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, as the name itself says, is also responsible for the development followed by Mrs Smerkol, as it has placed in one of the first pillars the preparation of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia and the preparation of the Smart Specialisation Strategy. The Ministry's important task is also to maximize the use of development funds and must be monitored with full responsibility. This has been accepted by the candidate lady, for which we appreciate and respect her. We trust her that with her expertise and positive approach, she will be able to manage all the burdens that are placed on her and will be placed on her in the future. We wish her perseverance and perseverance, which she has undoubtedly demonstrated by her appearance before the committee. At the same time, we express our support and our faith that it will be well cut off and show that in Slovenia it is possible to take steps in the right direction and not only to murmur, criticize and be negative. I am sure that she will also be trusted by other parliamentary parties and that we will finally stop sharing with ours and yours; but we will look to the future. Mrs. Smerkol – good luck; we from SMC support you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u11	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members; on her behalf, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished government team, distinguished MPs, honourable Members! At this critical time, when the economic situation is quite uncertain when Slovenia, through all the world's competitiveness scales, falls and when foreign media discourage investment in Slovenia, it is still important who will lead the sector responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. Since the invasion of foreign investors into Slovenia is not expected in the coming years, European funds are likely to be almost the only development and investment funds in the country. The drawback from the old financial perspective is poor, as by the end of September 2014, we had absorbed only 74% of the available European funds. In the coming year, we have to draw some 900 million euros from the old financial perspective. It is also extremely important that this area is covered by a very competent person. On Friday, 14 November, Secretary of State Alenka Smercol presented herself to us as a candidate for a Minister without a résumé on the Committee on the Economy. After a brief presentation of her career to date, she pointed out that she would follow the vision outlined by her predecessor. It presented in more detail the objectives it needs to achieve its vision. In the near future, it intends to focus on two key documents – the Smart Specialisation Strategy and the Slovenian Development Strategy. In the context of the old financial perspective, it has set a target of maximising the use of funds, both for cohesion and for territorial cooperation and for financial mechanisms. And of course also a reduction in the number of rejected refunds from the European Union. The establishment of a management and control system, including an information system and project management, was also highlighted. All the way up here, we thought the presentation was appropriate. The candidate responded to the questions raised by Members and Members. It was positive that she did not avoid the answers, but replied to the majority. However, the answers were very general and insufficiently concrete on many occasions. However, we had the opportunity to get to know the candidate on the committees when it came to the topic of the European fund draw-up reports. Let me re-emphasize here, we have Slovenia divided into two regions, the Eastern and Western regions, which are very different in terms of the European average. At the expense of the Eastern, less developed regions, we received around half a billion more European funding during the negotiations for the European funds. That is why the need to prepare two separate Operational Programmes has already been highlighted in the past, but for this there has been no hearing in either the previous government or the candidate for Minister. It is also right to point out here that we find the way to adopt the Operational Programme, one of the key documents that will be the basis for drawing on the funds from the new financial perspective 2014-2020, inappropriate. The Councils of the Eastern and Western Cohesion Regions had to adopt the Operational Programme very quickly. Even if regions do not like this type of work, it is clear from the conclusion of the Eastern Cohesion Region, which has only been conditionally confirmed by the Operational Programme. It is also right to point out that the version of the Operational Programme adopted in the Western cohesion region was not the same as the one adopted in the Eastern cohesion region later due to side-by-side additions. The Operational Programme was also changing before the approval of the Government, meaning that the version transmitted by the Government to the European Commission was the so-called third version; not the one confirmed in the world of cohesion regions. This way of working is seen as inappropriate because the worlds of the cohesion region are taking their weight away and is showing an increasingly centralistic approach to action. A coherent regional development will therefore be a real challenge for a new Minister without a portfolio. Since the candidate did not convince us by her presentation and because her manner of action seems inappropriate to us at the outset, we will vote against her confirmation in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia; on its behalf, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, ministers and secretary of state! Dear colleagues, good day to you, too! Last Friday, we were presented to the Committee on the Economy by a candidate for a Minister without a resource, responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. Mrs Smercolj has made an extremely good impression on us with her aim. Her performance was professional, confident, and energetic. In fact, she even reminded us of her predecessor, Mrs. Violeto Bulc. We are pleased that Mrs Smercolj is well aware of the broad area she will cover as Minister, since she is already doing the work of the Secretary of State at the Office of the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy; she will be able to take over and start full-time as soon as possible. It is a very important resource, even in the light of the crisis and already a relatively poor Slovenian use of European funds, which is why Mrs Smerkolj seems to us to be the optimal choice and solution. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we agree with the vision that this service must contribute to the balanced, progressive and sustainable development of Slovenia. We would like the candidate for the Minister to fully fill in all four pillars she has set — the development and use of funds from the current financial perspective in 2007-2013; the new perspective for the period 2014-2020; and the establishment of a government project office for 9 strategic projects. It seems extremely important to me that Slovenia prepares for the adoption of the Development Strategy as soon as possible, as it is a key document without which the country cannot function normally, let alone progress. We will therefore closely monitor progress in the Democratic Party of Retired Persons and also actively participate in the preparation of this document. In Slovenia, 3.2 billion European funds from the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund will be available in the new financial perspective 2014-2020. [[Incomprehensible]] The successful use of resources will be kept up by Mrs Smercol and we believe that she will do her job with all the enthusiasm and responsibility, as the unwillingness and bureaucratic obstacles we have demonstrated in the current financial period must no longer be afforded. The European Union 2020 strategy sets out 11 thematic objectives within which Member States can finance and contribute to the common achievement of European cohesion policy measures. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will particularly actively monitor the following three: promoting employment and labour mobility; promoting social inclusion and combating poverty; and investing in skills, education and lifelong learning. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we expect a proactive attitude from the new Minister in drawing on cohesion and other social resources; in particular funds for intergenerational cooperation; and resources for the generation of 50 plus, which are among the most vulnerable groups in addition to young people. It is important to know that Slovenia has one of the lowest employability within the Member States of the European Union between the ages of 50 and beyond, which is becoming an ever-increasing problem. These people are still full of work elan, eager work and contributions to society, but if they lose their jobs, they are practically unemployed, left to themselves and, of course, to social services. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support Alenko Smerkolj as Minister for Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion. We wish her success!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government; distinguished and respected others present! Today we will fill one of the missing places in this government. We are in charge of development, strategic projects and cohesion prior to the confirmation of the candidate for Minister without a licence. The area of development and cohesion has been neglected for too long and dispersed across different areas, without a single and targeted policy, for which we have paid a great price. The development strategy must become the bearable axis of all decisions, orientations and policies on different substantive areas. It must become a race to which we must unite at all levels. We can still have such good ideas, proposals and solutions, but if these are not in line with the common development vision, only the poor and inefficient content remain, which cannot live properly in the long run, and even less take a decisive step forward. Given the state of our finances and the forecast of deficit reduction, the potential for development breakthroughs is much narrower, so we need to be more careful that we take full advantage of the opportunities we have. The new European financial framework for 2014-2020 thus offers us new opportunities, which weigh as much as €3.2 billion. If we re-engage in the training of individual projects, we fight in an unrelated way for European funds, then we do not expect that the percentage of the funds spent will be higher. The European funds available to us are one of the major investment resources and we must no longer afford a stepmotherly relationship to the importance of these. In order to make tangible progress in this area, however, it will be necessary to build a strong chain; a chain that will exceed the division across the spheres. That the chain is as strong as its weakest member is known. It is therefore essential that the economic ministry, which is one of the key members of this chain, also be perfected. That we do not have a candidate for Minister of Economy here today is not the best way forward. Overindebted economy, credit crunches and the need for restructuring are major challenges that require the full and responsible work of the ministry. That is why we expect that the department will soon have a strong speaker. Indeed, every day when we are without an economic minister has no effect on the economy, which seems to be left to itself too often, at the same time gives water to the mill to those who say that we do not need the Ministry of Economy at all. We Social Democrats are convinced that we need a strong economic ministry more than ever. Political or human resources must not undermine the knowledge that the economy is one of the key foundations on which our better future can be built. And if the foundations are solid and stable, then we can build without fear so that something can crash at any time of the slightest earthquake. We social democrats have entered the coalition with a sincere intention to help overcome the economic and political crisis and to re-energize confidence in both the domestic and foreign public. Social Democrats expect the name that is missing today as soon as possible and that the economy will finally become a central focus of the government's action; that through an active policy of promoting healthy kernels, investment and strengthening industry, we can finally stabilise and increase economic growth, thereby protecting domestic production, workers and people who today pay a high price for poor individual decisions. Slovenia needs a new impetus, it needs a development strategy. Although the team is not yet complete, we believe that the work of the future Minister without a charter, responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, will contribute to a decisive step forward in this direction. Social Democrats believe that the presentation of candidate Alenka Smercol was good. The work ahead is not easy; however, we believe that the candidate has the necessary experience, knowledge and will to do it well. The Social Democrats will support the candidate for a licence-free minister responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u17	The text shall be given by the United Left Group, Mrs Violeta Tomić, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u18	Dear President, Honourable President of the Government, Ministers and colleagues! Due to the restrictions brought by the entry into the European Union, the Office of the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy is very important for the future of the country of Slovenia. For a long time, we have been listening to Slovenia's failure and under-exploitation of cohesion funds, at the moment the most important source of investment funds. In this deep crisis of capitalism, public investment has proved to be the only effective mechanism for restoring and driving the economy. The solution is simple – we produce by public means, in order to provide public needs. This is a key aspect of the future according to human measure. At the same time, there are already public investments that can draw Slovenia out of the crisis. Last but not least, 2.5% of economic growth in Slovenia in the first two quarters of this year is based on public investment in addition to exports. There are huge monetary operations in the world that have been used by central banks to spread money into markets, and this has caused exchange balloons that are likely to break soon, and capitalism will again collapse itself. On the other hand, compared to hundreds of billions for banks and the financial sector, relatively modest investments have brought economic recovery and jobs. Alenka Smerkolj will, of course, do her work within specific limits. Inside this framework is a key issue where to invest. The vision presented by Smercol is very similar to the neoliberal guidelines set out in the Treaty of Lisbon, which were the main mantra of the European Union before the crisis. Nevertheless, most of these desires will remain unfulfilled. The government is leading a completely different development strategy – a privatisation strategy or, rather, sales and austerity measures. The new minister will become a good member of the government on these issues. The intimidation of commitments towards the European Union and financial markets has sufficiently insided out that it says that without privatisation it will not work. What kind of development policy is this? This is evidenced by the forgiveness, violation of labour rights and the reduction of wages in Helios and the technological backlog and disinvestment in countless other cases. We hope that, as a long-standing bank responsible for contacts with financial markets and foreign banks, the new Minister without a portfolio has not become too accustomed to thinking on the logic of these financial markets. In preparing the Smart Specialisation Strategy, whose drafts are infamous because of esoteric dictatorship, we hope that it will hold to the words about, quote, "balanced progressive and sustainable development" as well as the words on competitiveness. If we really take those words, then we know that these two aren't going together. The reduction of rights, the destruction of the social state and the sale of property cannot achieve social and ecological sustainability. The new Minister for Development and European Cohesion Funds, Alenki Smerkol, would like to be successful in drawing on cohesion funds in order to establish control over the use of funds and to channel them as much as possible into productive investments that will not only bring economic growth but, above all, quality jobs and improving life for all working people in Slovenia. But reality is completely different. For real development in favour of people – not capital – Slovenia needs a radical change in its current perspective. In the United Left, we do not support the path to the third recession, so we will not support the new Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor, Desus. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As has been said, Mrs Smercolj has already presented herself on the home Economic Committee. I must say that she personally convinced me, but that was not easy; because Mrs Bulcheva, who was also extremely good, appeared before her on the same parental committee. However, Mrs Smercoleva's current candidate was at least as good or even better as Mrs Bulchev's. Why? First of all, from the substantive area. She impressed herself with knowledge of the content, she had a clear vision, she also had clear and exact goals, she answered our questions very professionally and confidently. That's the first one. Second, her personal approach was extremely confident, honest, very direct — reflecting her positive attitude, positive energy. With a smile on her face, which is not so insignificant, she answered all our questions. Why else would I support her, and why did she convince me? In all substantive matters, clearly expressed and set objectives, which, of course, I will not discuss, because too much has already been said, the staff and organisational, in particular the organisational strengthening of the service or the department that will lead it, has also touched. This is not so insignificant in these difficult circumstances. And that seems very important to me. Mrs Smerkolova is practically 1 month or less in the position of State Secretary at this Ministry and is convinced of what she is doing. Here she sees an additional challenge and I believe that she will be successful in her work. In the end — and certainly not the most important — he looks at all things with a great deal of optimism, which is backed up by her commitment and willingness to work hard. In doing so, I personally, as well as the Members and Members of the Desus Group, wish her the success and happiness she will need here; as little as possible under her feet, as less than full under her feet – and I believe that success will not fail. As a matter of fact, my support here is beyond doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u21	Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor. Get Mrs. Andreja Potočnik ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Nice greeting also for Mrs Alenka Smercolj's candidate, she must be listening to us somewhere. In my opinion, it would be right to sit here to look each other in the eye and say something important that is necessary for the developmental breakthrough of the Republic of Slovenia. I have already said on the committee that, despite the fact that Mrs Alenka Smercolj will be Minister without a ticket, as we say, we often do not know what this means, I think that her most white paper will be a very united and very strong political support within the government and coalition. Without this political support, there will be nothing with our country's developmental breakthrough. We are lagging behind the average of Europe by almost 20%, falling from 2008 when we were only lagging behind about 10%. We are talking about – and the candidate has also committed to – the implementation of 11 projects that are ready-to-go and are supposed to be implemented in 34 Slovene municipalities. That's not all. Many Slovenian municipalities have many projects and are waiting because they do not know what will be the next policy, what will be the further funding – and finally Slovenia's local self-government. I keep positive, because I always say positive. Slovenia is the world leader in some areas of high-tech entrepreneurship. We have one of the best companies with virtual toys in the world; the largest exchange of virtual currencies, the largest number of projects for devices on mass platforms and so on. I continue realistically – at the same time we have been completely ignoring this fastest growing economic sector for five years. I repeat: for five years we have been ignoring this fastest growing economic sector. State incentives are ineffective and outdated, we do not monitor the statistical industry, investments in such companies take place abroad and entrepreneurs are being relocated. In its previous reference, the European Parliament set the aims of the information society under the Digital Agenda for Europe. This digital agenda, if fully applied to me, would give jobs in Slovenia by about 3 000 ICT engineers by 2016. The European Parliament or the European Commission has even created a new horizontal commissioner for digital society. If we had the Ministry of Information Society ten years ago, the government has reduced the importance of the information society until we reduced its applications to the Directorate of the Information Society, which is essentially funding the state academic network and occasionally writes laws. We're running out of goals and relationships, not money. Slovenian legislation in the field of information society is excellent, it does not need to be amended. There's also enough money, but it's used aimlessly. Slovenian state offices receive awards for the digitisation of services, but no one publishes the usability statistics. According to all usability standards, national and official online services are awkward for use, some even useless. We have long since passed an electronic signature, and it is still necessary to negotiate with the courts and offices and to argue that they do not need a document sent by fax; but digitally signed electronic version is enough. That's what the law says. At the post office, the entrepreneur cannot prove that he can perform a postal service on behalf of the company if he does not have a squeezed extract from the Ipes that he is indeed an agent of the company. That's crazy. Even government officials send each other papers and spend our money. However, citizens still go to the pharmacy with prescribed prescriptions, despite the fact that the doctor writes what he wrote on the prescription, will faithfully log it into his computer and can easily send it directly into the pharmacy’s electronic recipe or write it down on a medical card that everyone carries. All of this causes delays, mistakes and ill will and, above all, takes on trust. We have infrastructure; yes, for force. I could always be better. Some Slovenian regions are not well covered by infrastructure. We can't get a better connection if we don't take advantage of the existing ones. Therefore, setting new budgets, funding for additional cables and projects without targets is not enough. Applications are needed, solutions are needed; but it is not only about infrastructure, it is also about content. For example, we invest almost the most in Europe in the digital education of Slovenian teachers, and students at the bottom of the scale are confident in the use of digital technologies. So, a lot of work and a lot of work for the future minister. Good luck – Alenka Smercolj!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u23	Mrs Andreja Potočnik, SMC, has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u24	Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! When I listened to the presentation of the candidate for Minister Alenka Smerkolj at the hearing, I had already received an extremely positive view of the future of our Slovenia in the beginning. I fully agree with the candidate's statements that Slovenia is at a crossroads and that there are two possibilities. One is to put up with a little more, turn things around, move on and win. The second is that we stumble, fall back, lose our sovereignty, and let others control us. I believe that today with the candidate's approval we will be closer to a positive step, closer to winning that all of us are doing better. The candidate shall have a clearly defined vision and objectives. It is aware that it is important to prepare a strategic document of the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be the basis for drawing from the new financial perspective 2014-2020. The clear objectives are to maximise the absorption of funds from a new and old financial perspective, to control existing and new projects and to reduce the number of discards from the European Union. In a short period of time, she has proved to be an extremely positive person since she became a secretary of state. She has shown understanding of the problems, is open to dialogue and excellent negotiation. We fully trust in Mrs Alenka Smerkolj's ability and believe that, together with her team, she will be able to achieve the goals she has set, thus contributing to a better and better future for Slovenia. I wish her every success!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u25	Mr Matjaž German, SD, has the floor; let the mag be prepared. Marko Pogačnik, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u26	Dear congregation, dear candidate! Social Democrats are aware that the times ahead are not easy. We too want to be part of this story with all the responsibilities, with all the traps; but above all with energy and a desire to make things better. Madam candidate Alenka Smerkolj has proved to be extremely quick to learn as a state secretary this month as an extremely responsive, extremely human and, above all, an extremely pragmatic person. Social Democrats are following her path with great optimism and the desire that in her area, which is very important, on which the Prime Minister is betting a lot, something will move for the better. It is clear from the composition of the government that the prime minister puts high hopes on this ministry without a department, placing on it a person who can connect different interests, different views, particularly in the common good. We will therefore support the Social Democrats with our best wishes to move things in the right direction together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u27	The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, SDS; prepare Mr Daniel Krivec, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial council! The fact is that European funds are probably one of the most important sources for the further development of Slovenia in both economic and social terms. The fact is that Slovenia is not the best in this sphere at the moment and in the past. Respectable candidate, I expect you to change your work so far, to change the organisation so far, and to make the drawing of European funds significantly better than it has been so far. The key problem that I personally see in drawing on European funds is the means of environmental cohesion. I am confident and appeal in particular to the ministerial assembly that the success of drawing on European funds alone will depend not only on the work of the Minister; but also on the support that this Minister will have – from the President of the Government and other ministries. I expect here that the bureaucratic complication and bureaucratic obstacles that I personally consider to be the biggest problem in drawing these funds and public servants will be aware of this; and that Slovenia can be significantly better in this area in the new European perspective. At the hearing of the distinguished candidate, I missed two things: the inconclusive answer to the question of what will the candidate change in her way of working compared to the work of the previous responsible persons in this area. And what are the three priorities that the candidate will set for herself as priorities? No matter what, I'm sure the candidate will be elected Minister today. I wish the Minister the best of her work to be as successful as possible, because her work is probably also in great connection with the successful development of Slovenia. But since Slovenia wants successful development, I also want a successful work for the Minister myself!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, ministers. I myself listened attentively to her presentation at Mrs Alenka Smercol's hearing as a candidate for Minister without a director. And I must say, to a large extent, she has answered a number of questions. But I'm not sure she'll be able to carry out all the problems she's put to the hearing. In other words, it has made quite a guarantee that within the government it will have a lot of support from the President of the Government and other ministers, but, in the light of past practice, this will be demonstrated by more practice. We do not know if this is entirely true, because the appointment of ministers and their provision, how they have support and how credible they are, has often proved to be a soap bubble in this case. But I'd like to point out something else. Appointments of ministers through the National Assembly and these hearings are in some ways irrelevant, as the key responsibility for the ministerial team is assumed by the Prime Minister of the Government. Let the government decide which minister she'll have. I think that nothing has ever changed in the National Assembly before, but this process through the National Assembly would be an alibi for someone to have changed his mind in time and not to take up the ministerial position. The decision on who will be the minister, how the matter will be handled, is primarily on the President of the Government and on the government as such. The new secretary is taking over a rather ungrateful department. We all know that pumping is bad; we are all aware that European resources are one of the key sources for further development, for faster development of Slovenia, especially in the economic field. It was said that the new financial perspective has quite a few new instruments, captures. This is a new way of distributing these funds; it is no longer so, I would say, restrictive frameworks, which in some ways have allocated funds for the entire financial period, and thus in some ways have also given those who wanted to obtain funds to prepare projects in a suitable manner. In this financial perspective, I fear it will be significantly more difficult for smaller entities to reach funding. Here I am also thinking about local communities, because the criterion that was somehow imposed on the economic eligibility of individual projects – if this is predominant, it will be a major problem. My colleague Marko Pogačnik drew attention to the key part that awaits the Minister, namely the bureaucratic obstacles and difficulties she will have in coordinating individual sources. I wish her as much success as possible in this regard, but she will urgently need the support of other ministers, especially the Prime Minister of the Government, to be able to coordinate these different interests, because so far these obstacles have proved to be key to curbing the faster use of European funds and making better use of these resources. I don't have any reservations about the candidate myself. In her presentation, I think she's shown that she's willing to make a difference on this area. In this case, I consider it an advantage for her not to have worked in public administration until now. I think that these things that are currently happening within bureaucracy are mainly due to some traditions. I believe that with some new approach, some things can also be changed and improved in such a difficult sector. I wish her as much success as possible!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u31	Mr. Tomaž Gantar, Desus, has the floor. Get Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec ready, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u32	Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The use of EU investment funds is certainly one of the painful points of previous governments; it also represents a number of missed opportunities for both economic development and new employment. It is an area that concerns more than one source, and today it would probably be very difficult to look for the responsible one for which it has not all come to pass. That is why it seems to me that this ministry, which has been proposed and we are talking about to the Minister today, is indeed crucial for further development in the coming years, because we know that the money in the budget for development projects is too little. The Minister who takes this must have certain characteristics; in particular, he must be well aware of the field of expertise, must act in a coherent manner and must have experience in project management. I personally believe that, by the President of the Government, the candidate is the one who has these abilities. I think most of us have been persuaded by her performance, by her attitude, by her positive attitude in watching either to a fellow worker or to work alone. That's why there's no concern on my part. As has already been said, we will support the candidate at Desus and in this case we can only wish her success. We believe that she will have adequate support from the Prime Minister of the Government, that she will in fact be able to influence several ministers within this government, so that these projects will actually come to fruition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u33	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, United Left, has the word. Get Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and others! Appointment of a minister is a symptom of this government. In our view, it is a symptom of the political awkwardness of this government and in some ways a symptom of a lack of strategy or some clear vision of the leadership of this country. This is shown in many of the human resources slides that took place in the bad three months, in long searches, in thought - out searches, such thorough ones — justifications for appointments that have repeatedly failed or ended with some failure. As a result, we have also had so many ministerial exchanges or some unsuccessful staffing and, of course, still an empty Ministry of Economy. For all this we have no doubt in the United Left about the personal suitability of a candidate for a minister; not only because she probably has more experience with banking and finance than with cohesion policy and drawing on European funds, but mainly because she is being proposed by the government than we know in the current composition. This is why, in particular because of some doubt as to the suitability of the candidates proposed by this government, we will not support the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u35	Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, SMC, has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Breznik ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u36	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! The presentation of candidate Alenka Smerkolj to the Committee on the Economy was very convincing from a substantive and methodological point of view. The applicant has extensive experience in business systems, including banking and financial institutions. It has cooperated with domestic and international financial systems, commercial and investment banks and companies. In particular, I was delighted by its analytical and systematic approach to implementing project management according to the correct management methodology. As Secretary of State, she effectively diagnosed the issue of inter-departmental coordination between ministries, which was a major weakness of previous governments. And these are probably the reasons for the inefficient use of European funds and also for some failed projects such as TES 6 and the third development axis. As a methodological approach to its work, it sets out the systematic coordination of development projects, the innovative approach, the integration of scientific and university spheres with the real sector and the application of these skills in companies and also in the public sector. As the main focus of its work, it lists the following systemic projects: the development strategy of Slovenia and the direction of the development of Slovenia on the basis of natural resources, traditional knowledge and economic position. It also states: successfully complete the previous perspective and prepare effectively for the next perspective in order to effectively draw on the resources available to us. I would also stress in particular the good idea of a project office for the implementation of strategic projects that are urgently needed for Slovenia. In the presentation of the candidate, I have seen a remarkable deal for the polycentric development of Slovenia, as it is aware that it is also possible to reduce the backlog of neglected regions, such as Koroška, Prekmurje and Bela Krajina. Through its experience and approach, the candidate will establish trust in the banking sector, finance development projects and the new investment cycle in the economy and the local community. For these reasons, I support the candidate and wish her the successful management of the ministry, the successful formation of the project office, and in particular the successful interdepartmental coordination. I also listened to some positive assessments of the opposition candidate. I think it may be a good sign that we will move forward together, including with the new Minister, into the new development perspectives of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u37	Mr Franz Breznik, SDS, has the floor. Prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I listened with great interest to Mrs. Smercoleva at the hearing. I must admit, if I were to assess her personality as a person, that she is a very positive, non-conflict person. I believe it's also targeted. Those advantages and competences she has if we look at her historic career; I wouldn't boast about it. Let's say that someone worked in the Slovenian banking system, because the Slovenian banking system as well is not an example of some serious professional approaches. I believe that taxpayers and taxpayers or generations in Slovenia will have been reminded for years of how the banking system worked at the present time. I don't think that's good for her. I believe she wasn't at some point in her life, that she was in this bank's senior, middle management, and that we can't tell her some irregularities. What is important is that it is the Minister in charge of development and cohesion policy. I would also like to mention one of the positive qualities that I think he has, which is what someone has been talking about before me. This is the business between ministries, the day-to-day problem resolution, the decision-making of these problems, the promotion of certain activities. This is also one of the, we can say, positive qualities of the candidate. What is important right now is that we have a European perspective. We have ahead of us the European perspective 2014-2020, as we know, we are correcting some of the mistakes from this perspective in 2013. The candidate promised to try to make an optimal conclusion to this perspective, and I hope that she will somehow stick to those words. What I would like to point out in my debate is the European perspective 2014-2020. Where will Slovenia go? Who is this candidate? What is her power, what is her power with the Prime Minister himself? Is this going to be one of the important ministers; is this going to be, not to say, a girl for everyone, but a lady for everyone? A lady who will only try to optimize the work of other ministries in drawing on European funds and some development programmes. And that's what matters. I think that before we draw optimally on European funds, we will have to take the next step in the National Assembly, which is the establishment of regions. We urgently need this project, we urgently need the establishment of regions and regional policy. It is a matter of optimising or increasing Slovenia's competitiveness, at least in terms of the development of tourism. The Slovenian regions have their characteristics, on the one hand they are extremely different, they have their own differences as regards tourism. Each region should have its own essential specificity, i.e. essential development, which would go slightly into another sphere. I see Slovenia – as a politician as well as a citizen – that it will be interesting for foreigners to be able to transport it in two or two hours and a half between different worlds. You are moving from Pannonian or Styrian work to the so-called Alpine world, you can go inland, you can go to the karst world, the coastal world, you can look at the characteristics of the nomadic region, the characteristics of the Koro region and so on. This would be what would be interesting, which would make Slovenia specific, in addition to natural development, in addition to green technologies. Our development must go primarily in the sphere of natural resources that Slovenia has, and these are healthy and clean drinking water and wood. Wood is our raw material, which is our large capital and is extremely underutilised; especially in final products, those products that could also give some real added value. If I go back to the debate on the establishment of the regions, I must admit that I, I think, on one committee, have also explained my role, that I come from the Slovenian Mountains and that we have been participating in bilateral conferences together with Austrian mayors for several years, with the provincial head of Austria's so-called South East Styria, where we work in several areas. We set ourselves three goals: the development of a common region of Styria, namely Austria and Slovenia, the integration of wine routes, the search for common features, as regards gastronomy, art, crafts and, of course, tourism as such in general. On December 1st, we have a re-bilateral conference in Austria, where we meet sometimes after 20, 30 mayors, circuit chiefs and me as an MP. In the past, let's say we solved the Mura flood zone. As we know, we have handled this extremely well. On December 1st, we have some new programs, these are programs called the integration of castles of Austria and Slovenia Styria, the integration of characteristics of wine, laški risling is typical of Styrian, Austrian and Slovenian parts, then wine routes. Then it is one of the major infrastructure projects, this is the connection of the railway bridge between the Austrian and Slovenian Radgono. Why am I explaining this? The Austrians come determined to do so. Those who are present at these talks may be true interlocutors because they have scissors and linen in their hands. As a Member, I cannot promise this, the mayors do not have this power, because we have no region, we have nothing to give them any legitimacy to make promises that will also characterise these promises on time. That's the problem we have. That's a typical problem. I believe that if such bilateral conferences are also going to take place in other areas, or are already taking place in Primorsk, in the nomadic part with Gorski Kotar, in the Koroška part, along with Austria's Koroška and so on, they will run into the same obstacles. I speak from reality, I speak from a pure reality that we meet with every day. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am once again aware that the establishment of the regions should be a plan for next year and also part of the budget, part of a strategy of this government. I would have done that myself if I were the Prime Minister of the Government. This is absolutely necessary if we really want to give Slovenia that additional competitive advantage and develop it into one of the most developed countries. Dear colleagues, you must be aware. I always compare myself to the best. We are not just members of the European Union, Slovenia is also an Alpine country, one of the eight Alpine countries next to Monaco, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Austria, France, Italy and Germany. We are the Alpine state, and we are the poorest Alpine country. We should aim to get out of this poorest Alpine country at least in the middle of these Alpine countries. It's one interesting thing, it's also part of our cultural identity, this Alpine one. I believe we should develop here. Here we are again coming back to the area of non-operation of the regions. In the past, all these matters that should have been taken over by the regions were taken over by the congregations. The municipalities were just doing their best. All projects concerning European funds can be said to have been guided very transparently and very rationally. I must admit that in the congregations we have not followed any major irregularities in drawing on these funds. If we look at the collapse of the banking system, which I can say was literally a crime - a crime took place in Slovenian banks. If we look at other systems in this country, I can say that the municipalities have spent these resources in a good way. Sometimes it is obvious that we do not need some projects, including cohesion. I explain many times about our great project in the Slovenian Mountains, the northeast flow of water, where we had to ensure a better flow of water; not just leaking water through old pipes. The point is that we plan to build thermals in the Benedict Congregation. We need infrastructure with a flow of almost 20 litres per second, we need quality infrastructure for industrial zones, etc. Not to mention the region from which I come, which has been extremely deprived, extremely poor, which has also been severely lagging behind in infrastructure. I must admit that in recent years we have taken a major step in the area of European funds draw-back; and also with the help of European funds. The Minister's candidate is not here today, but I'm telling you all to reconsider the establishment of the regions. We urgently need this, this is the basic basis for the Minister to be able to prove himself and be able to start her work. I believe that each micro-level region towards the macro-level will know exactly what its characteristics are, what are its advantages, what are its disadvantages, what are the risks; and will take advantage of this money and its role. We have time next year to make this legal basis and then at least start between 2016 and 2020, and we will draw on all the resources for these regions optimally. This is my suggestion to all of you – members of the coalition and also representatives of the government, that we take this seriously. If this does not, according to the domestic statement, without a serious objective targeted, without serious strategies, these funds will be reused, somehow there will be no whole. And this whole, this point on and then that added value, that some project is done. When a project is completed, especially if I am talking about the development of tourism, it is an added value and we have a whole range of projects. We can start with architecture – a whole series of architectural problems that we had in the past, destruction of architecture. We can preserve the countryside as such, for example, markets in many Slovenian places, where there is a whole range of buildings that would need renovations that would give added value. After that, all kinds of typical farms, houses that were built in an old Austrian-Hungarian style, which are also extremely interesting for the development of tourism, tourist farms, rural tourism, etc. All this makes some whole, some added value to the development of tourism in these places. It is similar in Kočevska, Koroška, Primorska, etc. This is the vision I see as a Member of Parliament, which is why I am here. Somehow I always try with some suggestions, not with opposition – because you are not my own, I will oppose you – but with some serious suggestions that we are trying to correct the mistakes that have taken place in the perspective until 2013 and that we are trying to set some purely healthy foundations in the new perspective 2014-2020, just as every project is going on. I believe that the candidate, which she has also shown at the hearing, is capable of being a targeted person, of being able to connect; and that is why we will give her this opportunity. We give her the opportunity to prepare this basis that I explained in my discussion. Once again, a suggestion to the representatives of the Government to give this to the Government at its next meeting as a proposal and to decide immediately in early 2015 whether we are going to establish the regions. I believe that this is most necessary in order to optimise the optimal absorption of funds from the European Union. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u39	Mr Ivan Škodnik, SMC, has the floor. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, Members! At Mrs Alenka Smercolj's presentation, a candidate for a minister, the lady said that her first job was in the Ljubljana Bank, where she worked for 26 years. It started at the lowest, reference point and then slowly progressed to the level right under the administration. It started in the Foreign Bank Relations Department and ended in the field of financial markets. At the presentation, she also stressed that Slovenia is now at a crossroads; whether we continue further in the wrong direction or if we turn things around, we move forward and win. She also mentioned the need to provide mechanisms for the promotion and systematic coordination of the development of Slovenia. We must be aware of the mistakes we have made in the past. We need to start thinking and try to establish a single development platform and achieve that we will finance economically efficient projects. And that additional money will have to be found for this from other sources offered by Europe. Let me finish with my next thought. Your trump card, Mrs Alenka Smercolj – I hope you are listening to me – are communication skills and motivation. You have a lot of knowledge, experience and positive energy. All of this is needed by Slovenia at this time for a breakthrough leading to economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u41	Mr Jože Tanko, SDS, has the floor. Prepare Mrs Andreja Katič, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! Mr Prime Minister made an opening presentation at the outset, and I think it was just a thrill that he found a candidate for a minister or a minister. However, practice then points to a number of other problems that may be manifested in these initial presentations and even with this initial enthusiasm, which is reflected in a completely different light. The first problem we can detect in this area is the great fragmentation of the government, of this government. In this government, fragmentation is even greater than in the previous one, and this, in my opinion, also causes the key or most important problems in the functioning of the government and also in the operation of European funds. We now have some coordination group represented by a minister. Everything else or much of this runs through other departments — one way or another. I think that the first problem is, in fact, that there is no serious comprehensive approach in this area; and this is also reflected in these major delays and setbacks that we have in drawing on European funds. Colleagues have already mentioned this problem of drawing cohesion funds from the past financial perspective. Almost 240 million euro of unspent money remained in this area. For two years in the National Assembly, we have spoken and requested the Minister of State and the Service to issue only the last document in the chain; this is the issue of the decision; however, the government and the Minister of State have not done so. He didn't! The current Minister of Agriculture is still a minister and he was the one who was persuaded by someone not to sign this document. For these projects, the local communities carried out all the procedures, had building permits, selected operators waiting two years to start implementing the projects. This is a problem when responsibility is lost in this fragmentation. You're gonna lose your responsibility. And once the system is so fragmented that it needs an infinite number of coordinations and meetings to move something at all, then the state administration gets the key role, then it becomes the most important. A policy that has a programme ahead of it, a goal, a desire to move something in this area, is simply lost in these procedural, formal, procedural complications. This is a key issue, not only in this area, but also in everyone else. If the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture, for example, who leads the regional development, has thought the government rationally, then the 11 projects in this package are not disputed; there are no mathematical differences. The government's own participation is 15%, VAT is 22%. Only in the difference between the deposit and the VAT can the government earn one half of the stake – it earns. It gets 22% to 17 of them, it's quite simple. Not to say that there would be additional resources in the budget, I don't know, income, contributions and so on. And if he hasn't been able for two years, and I don't know who else, or the President of the Government, to launch such a project that has net positive effects, financial effects on the state budget, which has extraordinary effects on rural areas, on supply, on prosperity in the country, then there's something in the approach, in philosophy that's wrong. This is a typical example when administration says that all those who do not know for what reasons say that something is not possible stop a policy that has a goal, a possibility and an attainable means. In this area, governments, however, should do much more. But the key problem, according to my assessment, given that I have also worked in production in practice so far – and this has been in the organization of work for several years – and in the fragmentation of individual departments dealing with the same thing. That's the key problem. I think we should make a major change in this area; let this be your government, let this be the new government that will come, let this be our government if it comes. There's a lot to tighten up here. We have lost the project with positive net effects in the financial budgetary sense. The minister's candidate said we wouldn't have found responsibility for it back. The key task of the policy is to make an audit in this area and identify who are the ones who have stopped the matter. Who are these people who have convinced or prevented policy implementation; and in the budget, there will be a total of 240 million euro left in the European funds. To someone who in such a political way covers the responsibility of those who should do so, you cannot give any positive consent. In principle, you can't give because you're defending something that was bad for this country and you should do something different. We have a new financial perspective ahead of us 2014-2020. This year is over. Can one of those who ran the government in 2013 tell me how many euros are drawn from this financial perspective. It'll be over in a month. We've got five more. I think that from this financial perspective, because we did nothing and we got the programs rejected, nothing was exhausted. It is unbelievable to talk about whether we have a built-in or a built-up basis for the successful use of European funds. That's not right. Those who have a mandate to lead an operational enforcement policy during this period will have to make a very good effort and also take responsibility for all that will not be realized. Politically, professionally, and something else. In view of what my colleague Breznik has previously opened, it is also necessary to consider slowly, or one step in this part is also the implementation of a constitutional provision regarding the establishment of landscapes. As long as we do not divide this huge state apparatus into a lower level of decision-making, until then there will be no special responsibility, since the establishment of regional affairs, regional affairs, is in fact crucial to making things turn faster. Just as the lower level has evolved faster, it is called a municipality, it will also be a medium level, but it is obviously a part of it, or this part of it will be a hard piece for this government coalition, and we will be trying and explaining to people why something is not possible with these bulky systems, with these inoperable things, uncoordinated things. You are obliged to take care of such a state regime, some are constitutional categories, and some are under the authority of the government, including the Government Act and the State Administration Act, so that the matter becomes operational and effective. An explanation of why something can't become a past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u43	Mrs Andreja Katič, SD, has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr President, for your consideration. My proposals are intended for a candidate without a license, responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, and I believe she is listening. I am speaking to the former head or member of the project teams who have applied for calls for European funds. In most cases, we were successful in Velenje. I can also say that I speak on behalf of Slovenian municipalities. Let me just point out the following things that I think are most important. I wish that the organisational skills and permeability of the candidate for a minister will help organise the work of the various ministries effectively, and that they will participate as a assistance and as a partner in the implementation of the projects and thus contribute to the successful use of European funds. And that we will not be more demanding or more bureaucratic in the preparation of the calls than Brussels requires of us. The Minister must be a loud and demanding linkage article. I propose that certain changes be approached immediately. Community projects, at least until now co-financed, must not be market-oriented in most cases. That needs to be changed. If we are working, say, a new facility of the museum, why shouldn't there also be a store in a certain part where products of Slovenian crafts are sold and thus a part of the income is obtained, which could also cover the costs of this museum. Next. When the project is implemented, it shall also be carried out with the assistance of a custodian at the Ministry. This guardian is supposed to act as if he's part of a project team. Its task is to coordinate all necessary in different ministries. Yes, for example, it is not worth paying for because someone at a ministry in charge of this project is hospitalized. And what he counsels, then he cannot be the object of something not being done right if it was done by his conduct. The next thing I propose is to immediately approach the amendments to the Public Procurement Act. The law should be amended so that the cheapest and most expensive bidders are automatically excluded, and not that we are then confronted with the fact that a dumped offer has been made and the project cannot be implemented effectively. I also propose that the Public Procurement Act should be amended so that, where the chosen contractor does not comply with the contract, the contract can be broken down so that a contract can be concluded with the next most favourable tenderer. Similarly, if the company goes bankrupt, but not that a new tender is necessary, which takes time and duration, and the time for carrying out the project is limited, and if the municipality or other applicant fails to execute it within a period of time, the funds should be reimbursed. As a result, the congregations are often subject to a variety of temptations to conclude an annexation to existing contracts. I also propose that we are living in the implementation of projects. I was involved in the project myself when control came and we were denied that we had not achieved the goals because the table we bought from these funds was shorter by one centimeter. Or, for example, we were told that we had not achieved the objectives of the project because the trees we had already purchased were not planted because the trees are not planted in the middle of the hot summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u45	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko SDS has the floor to prepare Mrs Maruša Škopac SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello again! The presentation itself didn't convince me. Although it seems very positive, I am not sure that it has enough energy for all this coordination that will be necessary. At this point, it is extremely important that a person who is an excellent coordinator, who will be able to negotiate very well with the ministries, make proposals, initiatives, encourage them to respond quickly to the preparation and coordination of projects alone. It will be really quick to draw on it, especially since we know that 900 million euros will have to be drawn from the old financial perspective next year. But somehow we hope to start drawing on the new financial perspective in the coming year, which I believe was also the reason for this hasty adoption of the operational programme itself – at least that was the explanation. It is also extremely important that this Minister has very good support from the Prime Minister himself, because it is only in this way that he will be able to accelerate many times with his assistance only by drawing on certain projects across individual ministries. The other ministries, namely the Ministry of Economy, Environment, Agriculture and Infrastructure, are also key to me. It will certainly face a number of challenges because in this area, at least in the light of the past, they are never missing. Very often there have been some so-called administrative errors, and if I mention only one, eighth public call, where more co-financing decisions have been issued than were available at the time of the call. In its own explanation, it was written in a letter by the Ministry of Economy that there had been an administrative error. Perhaps true, but in any case, such a mistake can also pose a great risk to the investor. Therefore, I find it irresponsible that such mistakes are also being made and I see here a great challenge for the future minister. We also know well that when the European Commission discovers a mistake in drawing on it, it simply makes it freeze our refunds into our budget – what happened to us in March of this year. I truly hope and believe that everything in this direction will also be done so that similar mistakes will no longer occur. The next challenge is to reduce the gap between all payments from the State budget and the requests submitted for reimbursement to the Ministry of Finance. I believe that this gap, in fact, belongs to the Ministry of Finance itself. However pleased I am – this is also the candidate in the presentation itself confirmed – that she will take and do everything possible to reduce this gap as much as possible and that various simplifications will be sought here also in the IT area. What I consider extremely negative, and this has already been presented, is the process of adopting an operational programme. Once again, I would like to stress that it is really important that all the measures, including the other measures taken by this government, do not go in the direction of centralisation. It is important that the regions are not neglected and that the Eastern cohesion region is provided with all the resources which, given the average development of the European Union, also belong. As we know, this year's economic growth at the time of increased exports was a key infrastructure project. These are projects carried out by municipalities with the help of these European funds. It is the municipalities that have done the most in recent years to develop investment in infrastructure. We know that this has provided jobs for many companies, and we have had, I believe, a large number of new jobs open, the maintenance of existing jobs, and, last but not least, that is why a large amount of tax has been paid to the state budget. However, the biggest challenge for the future minister is how these European funds will be available, and this is not enough – we know that from an old financial perspective we have almost a billion and 3.2 billion from a new financial perspective, 2014-2020 – how it will ensure coherent regional development through these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u47	Mrs. Marusha Škopac, SMC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On Friday, we witnessed the presentation of a candidate for a licence-free minister responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj. She said that after almost 26 years of working experience in our largest bank, where she was the last executive director of the financial markets area, she was given a new job. All this tells us that we have a real candidate ahead of us, with a lot of experience. As has already been heard in the presentation of the opinion of the SMC Group, we support the candidate's decision to follow the direction and objectives already set by her predecessor, Mrs Bulc, in her vision. That the Government Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion Service should contribute to the balanced, progressive and sustainable development of Slovenia. The Minister's candidate divided her goals into four pillars. The first pillar is the preparation for our country of two very important documents. The first of these two documents is the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia. The last two governments have tried to prepare a strategy for the development of Slovenia, but unfortunately we still do not have what we feel in our country at every turn. Without a development strategy, no country can operate, and of course no successful company can. The strategy is very important because it sets your goals and only when the objectives are clearly set can all energy be directed towards achieving the objectives set. At the hearing, Mrs Smercolj showed that, in a good month, as much as she worked on the Government Development Service, strategic projects and cohesion, she was well aware of operational matters and also very successfully participated in the preparation of another, for our country of such an important document, this is the Smart Specialisation Strategy to be sent to Brussels by the end of March next year. The document is part of an operational programme, which was also approved by the Government last week and is the basis for drawing European funds from the new perspective. A reputable candidate for Minister! I wish you a great deal of energy, perseverance, excitement and enthusiasm at your work. And of course you can count on our full support for your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u49	All the advertised debaters you wanted the word for got it. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The decision will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education is an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Stanislavi Setnikar Cankar, Minister of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u50	Dear President, honourable Members! Allow me to briefly explain the objectives, principles and main solutions of the proposal for a law on higher education, with which at the Ministry we wanted to solve the acute role of the 200 students who were in positions so that they would no longer have the status to enable them to exercise the rights set out in this title on 1 October 2014. The aim of the law is to protect the rights of students by ensuring the public validity of diplomas for all students enrolled in an accredited study programme in the first year. I therefore stress that none of the students were enrolled in the first year of their accreditation programmes, but that their accreditation expired during their studies and that the higher education institution did not submit an application for his re-accreditation. Thus, the public validity of such study programmes shall be extended to 30. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The validity of the student's status and the validity of the diplomas obtained shall be governed between the end of accreditation of these study programmes and the application of this law. The public validity of the study programme shall continue if the higher education institution does not file an application for extension of the accreditation of the study programme – of course, if the conditions laid down by this amendment of the law are met, confidence in the Slovenian higher education institutions and diplomas awarded and other documents shall be maintained. The main solutions introduced by the proposal for a law to extend the public validity of the study programme in order to extend the accreditation of the study programme until the end of the study year, in which it becomes the final decision of the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education, by which this accreditation is not extended, the possibility given to the higher education institutions for the additional invitation to enter the postgraduate and postgraduate studies programmes, and the right of the student to change the study programme in the circumstances of the previous indent; the addition and harmonisation of the records of accredited studies of the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education and the records of the study programmes with data on the date of implementation of the public validity of the study programme, and in particular, as I have pointed out at the outset, the protection of the rights of students and graduates of the study programmes which they have already completed, as reflected in Article 12 of the law. In doing so, we have adhered to the principles that equality from law and the protection of public interest in higher education is our priority.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u51	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u52	Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! At its 5th urgent meeting, on 11 November, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. On 7 November, the College of Presidents decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The opinion was also given by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. In its opinion, it was also supported by the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanislava Setnikar Cankar, said that the bill regulates two situations. Firstly, the proposal gives the higher education institution the opportunity not to file an application for extension of the accreditation of the study programme, and it must take such a decision not later than two years before the accreditation of this study programme expires. At the same time, NAKVIS and the competent ministry must inform the Commission, and new entries in such a study programme are no longer admissible. In order to protect the rights of students, such a study programme shall remain public for the duration of the study programme extended by one additional year and the period of public validity may not be less than the validity of the accreditation of the study programme. Secondly, in the event that the study programme is not accredited, the right to change the study programme or course shall be safeguarded in order to protect the rights of students, provided that this right has not yet been exercised, so as to enable them to enter the accredited undergraduate or postgraduate study programmes. She added that higher education institutions are committed to allow students who are now enrolled in programmes that are no longer accredited to complete their studies. She also said that there is already a new system law on higher education, which will regulate the area of higher education in an integrated manner. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to a decision of the Constitutional Court, where there was a finding of non-compliance with the individual provisions of the current Higher Education Act with the Constitution, as a period of 9 months for harmonisation had already expired on 6 February 2012. In the proposal under consideration, she pointed out that it was an exception to the system regime in the event that a study programme for which the higher education institution decided not to apply for extension of accreditation was extended by one year at the latest two years before the end of accreditation. Thus, the public validity of the study programme shall also be recognised under the law for a period in which it is no longer valid accreditation. The discussion also took place on frequent amendments to the Higher Education Act and on the need for a new system of regulation of this area, on a long period after which students enrolled in unaccredited higher education programmes have the opportunity to carry out all their study obligations, on the early abolition of the established anti-constitutional provisions of the Higher Education Act, on the late application of relevant amendments to higher education legislation due to the neoliberalisation of higher education and universities and on the insufficient number of quality private schools in Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted by the Committee under Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u53	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and under the first word, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, for her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the second half of September this year, about 200 students, 160 undergraduate students and 40 doctoral students, will not be able to complete their accredited study programmes or their already acquired diplomas on these programmes are not publicly valid. Of course, we all wondered why these 200 students would not be able to complete the study. The reason is the accreditation of some of the study programmes, which is why we are actually considering the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Your Honors are here! Today I have already presented the report of the Committee to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. Actually, there's not much to add to that. As the Minister herself, Dr Setnikar Cankar, on the working body, has found, in this story, students are those who cannot bear any consequences because there is in fact no guilt on their part. All of these about 200 students were enrolled in accredited programmes. So when they signed up, they joined accredited programmes and never faced information that accreditation would take place. Therefore, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act before us is due to the elimination of this error, which was probably made by all those responsible. At the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek we will support the amendment of the law. We also support the law because we have received the assurance that a comprehensive amendment of the Higher Education Law is being prepared and will be dealt with here in the National Assembly in a short time. I would also like to express my expectation that similar complications will no longer occur in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you. The text is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished Minister and other representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! In opening, let me say that we were also very surprised in our Group of Members and to some extent disappointed at the fact that such system failures can occur, whether systemic or subjective errors. We believe that this is a question, or that it is a situation that should not occur. This also teaches us from this point of view that there may be many similar issues in our systems, which requires a sincere and effective approach to solving and, above all, preventing such systemic errors. We believe that it would be a minimum that not particularly affected students should at least make excuses, because I hope that we are all aware that during this time they have experienced very difficult moments. Without looking for a concrete culprit now, I think this is a necessary gesture. Nevertheless, it is only of the utmost importance that all responsible actors have come to some consensus in solving the problem, as is reflected today in the adoption of the proposal for this law. That is why we in our Group felt that this proposal for amendments to the Higher Education Act was supported. Above all, I would like to stress what has already been highlighted by the Minister and also by the President of the committee responsible, but this area requires as quickly as possible a system-wide regime, and we expect the proposal of the Higher Education Act to come to our table as quickly as possible. So, once again, let me stress that, despite the inconveniences and strange circumstances, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you. The word shall be given by the Group of the parties of Mira Cerar. Mrs. Irene Kotnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u58	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister and colleagues and representatives of the Government, distinguished colleague, colleague! When we prepared the amendment to the Higher Education Act, we witnessed various opinions that appeared both in the media and at the second emergency session of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, which was 8. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The potential negative impact of the amendment on the quality of higher education and the failure to comply with the proposals for solutions of key actors in the field of higher education were most frequently exposed. The latter was one of the main developments in the preparation of all previous novels of the Higher Education Act, as the opinion of the professional public was not always taken into account. This has led us to amendment the Higher Education Act for the 24th time today. We correct the system error and regulate the situation of 200 students who have either completed studies on unaccredited study programmes or are still studying on study programmes that have already expired in 2012 or 2013. The bill also prevents such situations from occurring in the future. It is also worth pointing out the importance of a broader social consensus in decision-making processes and the provision of appropriate sectoral and systemic solutions, since the bill we are considering is in line with both the NAKVIS and the representatives of universities and students. The proposal for amendments to the Higher Education Act follows the objectives set. It ensures the public validity of diplomas to all students who have entered into a publicly valid programme which has been subject to accreditation during their studies, regulates the validity of student status and the validity of diplomas during the period from the end of accreditation to the implementation of the new law, enables them to maintain the public validity of the study programme further in the event that the higher education institution does not apply for the extension of the accreditation of the study programme, and maintains confidence in the Slovenian higher education institutions of this awarded diploma and other public documents. The area of higher education is important for social development and only quality programmes can provide us with additional value in science, economic development and social progress at all. The Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth has taken a quick and effective approach to solving the problem of accreditation of study programmes. We therefore support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Andrej Chus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u60	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister with the team, nice greeting! We could discuss the state of higher education and the Higher Education Act in general today, but allow me to point out in the debate that we will support amendments to the Higher Education Act in the SDS Group with bitter taste. Why the bitter taste? This is because in this country, as we have discussed on the committee itself, someone is responsible or responsible. And even in the SDS Group, we somehow miss that responsibility is just a word spoken in politics, but there is never any action; so that people are responsible for mistakes. And where are the Deans, the Rectors, the Proctors, where's NAKVIS? Nobody's gonna answer for anything! We will only support the Higher Education Act for the benefit of 200 students. In 2011, the Constitutional Court warned that the Higher Education Act is unconstitutional in certain articles and provisions. We are somehow concerned that from 2011 onwards we are talking about higher education, but we are not doing anything. Given the fact that we are already correcting the Higher Education Act in the 24th century, this is a sign that the Higher Education Act is weak and inappropriate. That is why, of course, we also call on the competent ministry to approach the reform of the Higher Education Act as soon as possible, and we warn or express the wish that this reform would not be the same as that of former Minister Jernej Pikalo. We deserve good education, good educational institutions and good colleges only with competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Primož Hainz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u62	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, representatives of the Government! In order to avoid more than 200 students from the University of Ljubljana and Primorska, who enrolled in nine study programmes years ago, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has not been able to complete their studies and diplomas, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has approached the resolution of their status with today's amendment to the law. The Ministry has made an effort and together with the participants in higher education, i.e. the Student Organisation, the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Quality of Higher Education and Universities have prepared solutions that are also in the opinion of the DeSUS Group and will adequately resolve the situation while maintaining confidence in Slovenian higher education institutions or in our education system. The aim of the amendment is to resolve the issue of unaccredited student programmes and to regulate the rights and status of students who, according to the assessment of the parliamentary group for the carelessness and negligence of both relevant higher education institutions and NAKVIS, remained outside the university door and even with a diploma in their pocket, which is not public. Today, by confirming this novel, we will ensure the public validity of diplomas for all students enrolled in an accredited study programme during their studies, and the higher education institution has not submitted an application for its re-accreditation, so that the public validity of such study programmes is extended until 30 August 2018. Secondly, we will regulate for this period the validity of student status and thus the possibility of exercising all rights arising from this status. At the same time, the amendment of the law obliges higher education institutions to inform the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education and the Minister responsible for Education in the event of a decision to discontinue the implementation of each study programme. In the parliamentary group, we are convinced that our school system, and especially higher education, needs comprehensive reform, so that we are awaiting new systemic solutions in this area. The DeSUS Group advocates a high-quality and open public education to act transparently and effectively in terms of responding to the social needs and needs of the economy. We are aware that higher education deserves the most responsible management and action if it is to be faithful to its true mission and to develop its full potential, which will also serve society as a whole. As it is said, the DeSUS Group will unanimously support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u64	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues, nice greetings! In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the response of the Government or the Ministry of Science and Sport Education, which quickly approached the problem of students and graduates of unaccredited study programmes. Social Democrats have always advocated quality and accessible public education across the entire vertical. These two elements also guide us in assessing the proposed solutions to the situation in which students or diplomats of unaccredited programmes are found. We are therefore paying particular attention to the position of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which has had quite a few comments on the initial drafts of the text. The Ministry of Education and Sport's guarantees on the harmonisation of the proposal are therefore essential to our decision. Social Democrats point out that students or diplomats of unaccredited programmes are not responsible for the problem and it would therefore not be justified to suffer any consequences for the breach of regulatory arrangements. In view of the different opinions that have emerged in the past weeks, we stress that even in future accreditation should not be the responsibility of students and students, especially since any doubt about who is responsible for ensuring timely accreditation of study programmes will be lifted by implementing changes to the law. However, the legal solution is not only a partial state-of-the-art remediation; we are pleased that the proposal provides for other cases of termination of the accreditation of the study programme. Social Democrats are expected to direct all their powers and activities to ensure financial stability, quality, accessibility of higher education institutions after the adoption of the novel. In our view, the only way to ensure long-term conditions for the further development of higher education is to adopt a new law on higher education. This should not, however, be adopted after the decision of the Constitutional Court at the beginning of 2012. The former Minister has prepared and coordinated the draft with important stakeholders in the field of higher education, but unfortunately the government's downturn has not even experienced a government procedure. The early introduction of the already prepared comprehensive Higher Education Act is, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, even more urgent. The circumstances in which public financial support in the field varies considerably are reflected in the excessive dependence of the autonomous education system on fast-track political relations. In the Social Democrats Group, we hope that the lack of adequate regulation will have no impact on the balance sheet for 2015. We believe, however, that not only will the Government recognise not only higher education but education as one of the most important investments in the future of the country. We will support the proposed text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Comrades and comrades! Today, we are solving the complex situation in which about 200 students were found. After carefree treatment, these students were deprived of their education. Who is responsible for this is not to lose words in this place. There is much more to the question of how the proposed additions to the Higher Education Act to the situation in the palm of the hand are dealt with. As has already been pointed out on the Committee on the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, this is being solved in a confusing way by the stroke of the legislator's stick past other mechanisms and practices, but unfortunately this is also the most elegant and least painful solution. It is important to note that in order to disregard the provisions of the new VIS, this does not provide for any sanctions or corrective mechanisms, so something may happen that we will again face such or similar problems in this mandate and wise how to resolve this student or that student and raise the deadlines for re-ad hoc interference with the law in areas where it has nothing to look for. Minister Setnikar Cankar recently promises to be overly concerned, simply because we are about to prepare and harmonise a completely renewed Higher Education Act, which the Constitutional Court has been warning for years that it is unconstitutional. This is certainly a noble ambition, but unfortunately everything before real. The previous attempts to renovate the ZVIS were prevented by students and organised university workers. Not because their unconstitutional situation is year after year, but because every government in the ZVIS has intervened more or less openly to further deepen and accelerate the commercialisation of higher education. We have no reason for such a scenario to happen this time; on the contrary! The university is not a homogeneous and non-problemistic creation, as many of us would like to be convinced. The University is a complex institution, with its internal conflicts, including through the classroom. And because it is the higher education that has suffered the worst blows of a suicidal austerity policy, these conflicts and the fight for funds are all the more acute. It is not surprising, then, that managers and professors who have created their own kindergartens welcome the extra seduction and discipline of such an extremely exploited academic prelude, for example, with the possibility of additional burdens. The same university strategies also often welcome the carrying of financial burdens on students' shoulders, while hiding behind missed arguments and empty promises. In order for such managers and academic mandarins to take the university's social task as a place of public use of the mind seriously and to reject the ruling ideology along with the policies of austerity measures, of course, this is not to be thought of. Such dynamics are, of course, appropriate to the government, which runs the belt tightening policy. For the first time, because it allows the higher education sub-system, despite severe malnutrition, it does not collapse, as it further encumbers employees, students and their families for survival. Secondly, because it promotes the erosion of the university as an institution in the service of the needs of the whole society, it models its design in the form of a factory and transforms it into a support pillar of the market. Of course, students, their families and university workers will not quietly observe further attempts to commercialise higher education. The United Left, of course, joins in promoting universal access to education and transforming the university into a democratic and socially beneficial institution. We'll support the new ZVIS. We believe that it is necessary to rescue students in a quick process, but we warn about the context in which interventions into the VSIS take place where they can lead, and we warn against further destruction of the university as a public good. Thank you very much for your word and attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u68	Dear President, Minister, colleague and colleague! Christian Democrats will support the amendment of the Higher Education Act. In fact, it is good that there has been a solution, in line with universities, the Student Organisation of Slovenia and the National Quality Agency in higher education. The laws must, in our firm belief, be clear, understandable and not least, most important, to help citizens and citizens, but not quite the opposite. Young people who have enrolled in unaccredited study programmes listed in the law, or accredited study programmes that have been accredited during their studies, and higher education institutions have not submitted applications for their re-accreditation as required by law, have found themselves in a strange and unacceptable situation where their diplomas are not publicly valid. This novel removes this anomaly and at the same time prolongs the public validity of these study programmes until 30 September 2018. In addition, the amendment of the law also systematically regulates the public validity of the study programmes which the higher education institution no longer intends to call for in order to avoid similar difficulties and anomalies. In fact, this is another too many fire-fighting actions in Slovenian legislation. And Christian Democrats point out that this case should be a lesson for all of us, both law-makers and Members, to the extent necessary and important when preparing laws, a broad public debate is that we can then identify possible loopholes and traps and seek appropriate solutions. Respected assembly, our laws are too complicated, there are too many changes, so they can't really be followed by lawyers, let alone citizens and citizens. In our opinion, there must be a detailed review of the purification of laws in Slovenia in order to make them comprehensible and, of course, to support – I repeat, most importantly – citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Public Finance Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representatives of the Government of the Magi. Matei Vraničnik, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u70	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment of the proposed law eliminates non-compliance with the Constitution in the work relating to the termination of the contract of employment of public servants. The Constitutional Court is in favour of a constitutionally inadmissible solution whereby the contract for the employment of civil servants as female pension and invalidity insured who have not yet fulfilled the same conditions for obtaining the right to an old-age pension as applied to male insured persons. The proposed law regulates non-compliance with the Constitution in a way that aligns the conditions for termination of the employment contract for both sexes or, in other words, the position of public servants with that of public servants as male insurers. Furthermore, the proposed law also provides for a clearer definition of the agreement to assume obligations under those commercial and copyright contracts concluded on the basis of the procurement procedure previously carried out. To date, the users of the budget have also obtained a consensus in the event of a prior public invitation to tender only in the event of the conclusion of an author or business contract. Since the refusal of agreement to conclude a contract after a public procurement procedure has already been completed could also have a financial impact on the budget user, the proposed amendment of the law provides that the users of the budget will obtain a prior consent. Therefore, to publish the contract notice or to submit an invitation to tender. In other words, this means that users of the budget agreement to conclude an copyright or a business contract do not need to be in agreement if they have already obtained an agreement to publish a notice of invitation to tender or to submit an invitation to tender. However, the third substantive amendment to the law relates to the completion of Article 199(1). With this addition, it is proposed to extend the validity of the fourth class of the income scale for 2015. According to the applicable income scale for this year, the rate of 50 % is applied to a net annual tax base of more than EUR 70 000 907. This means that at a rate of 50 %, active incomes exceeding the amount of approximately 5 average wages in the Republic of Slovenia are charged, taking into account the assumption that the debtor only applies general relief. In other words, the proposed extension of the measure until 2015 does not change the conditions for the taxation of active income on the basis of this year, thus providing EUR 16 million in the State budget. Taking into account these explanations, we propose that the National Assembly support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the representative of Mrs Urska Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u72	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 7th urgent session. 11. Considered the above-mentioned proposal of the law as the parent labour body. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made a concrete comment on Article 1 of the bill. The Committee was also provided with the following material: a letter from the Union of Education, Education and Science of Slovenia proposing amendments and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. The amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Novi Slovenija Group on Article 4, the SMS, DeSUS and SD Group on Article 1 and the Joint Left Group on Article 4 of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Union of Education, Education and Science of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the draft law regulates three substantive areas. Firstly, it eliminates the non-compliance of the current law with the law in force concerning the termination of the contract of employment of public servants, where different conditions have been laid down for the termination of the employment of public servants and public servants. Secondly, it amends the obligation to obtain consent for both business and copyright contracts. In practice, it was unclear whether contracts concluded on the basis of a public contract should be agreed before or after the procurement procedure was launched. The proposal for a law introduces a solution that, if a contract is concluded on the basis of a public procurement procedure, it is necessary to obtain that agreement before the procedure begins at all. Thirdly, it amends Article 199, which provides for the fourth class of income for 2013 and 2014. In view of the budgetary situation in the coming year, it is proposed that this class be maintained even in 2015 at an unaltered level. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained in respect of the service’s comment to Article 1 that the amendment tabled by the coalition groups took due account of this comment. The discussion focused on articles 3 and 6 of the draft law, which were proposed by the union representative present, and on Article 4 and the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment tabled by the United Left Group to this article. Some members and members of the Committee expressed their support for the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. They stressed that the government's proposed solution was contrary to the Minister's forecasts, which they considered to introduce an additional tax burden. The Secretary of State explained that the Government does not support any of the amendments to this Article, as it advocates a solution to ensure that the tax situation remains unchanged in 2015. It explained that the Government does not want to rush through reckless measures in the area of changing the income scale and therefore decided to maintain the unchanged situation in 2015 as it retains the unchanged rate of income and taxation at the level of 2014. After the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments of the SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 1. However, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 4. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party. Mr. Mag. Dušan Verbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u74	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Balance Act seeks to bring an end to the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution in work relating to the termination of the contract of employment of public servants. For constitutionally inadmissible, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decision ending the contract of employment of civil servants as female insurers who have not yet fulfilled the same conditions for obtaining the right to an old-age pension as applied to male insurers. The main solution to the bill's proposal by equating the conditions for termination of the employment contract for both sexes equals the position of public servants as female insurers to the position held by public servants as male insurers and thus eliminates the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law also lays down the obligation to obtain consent under Article 186 of the ZUJF for the publication of a contract notice or for the transmission of an invitation to tender and no longer for the conclusion of an copyright or business contract. In addition, by supplementing Article 199 of the ZUJF, the income scale, which was established as a preliminary solution for 2013 and 2014, is extended by an additional fourth tax grade with a rate of 50 % for 2015. At the Mir Cerar Party, we are aware that during the crisis, we all need to save, so that the burden of 50% in 2015 is still justified. The proposed solution is in force only for 2015, as it is necessary to make the burden of work internationally competitive. As a result, it is considered that in 2016 we would burden the most productive and thus allow jobs in the Republic of Slovenia and attracting foreign investments, but of course also allow young people to have better conditions for staying in Slovenia. On the basis of the above, the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance Balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u76	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague, colleague! We have before us a change and a complement to the Public Finance Balance Act. Also in the context of the substantive review of this amendment, the Government states that the basic objective that the applicant seeks to achieve by amending the law is to eliminate the non-compliance of the law in the constitutional part relating to the termination of the contract on the employment of public servants. However, the decision of the Constitutional Court is followed, and in this part the Slovenian Democratic Party has no comments and agrees with this amendment or amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act. To the great surprise of the Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, this amendment and the addition of the law also includes Article 4, which refers to the amendment of Article 199 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finances, i.e. the ZUJF, which, to the rapid validity of the fourth class of the income scale and thus increases the tax burden by 50% until 2015. Respected and respected! We estimate that such a way of working is not adequate in the law, which is supposed to say that changes and additions are made solely because of the decision of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not understand the current coalition, including coalition partners, in particular the party of the Social Democrats, who, when adopting the Public Finance Balance Act, had significant comments and are now extending the Public Finance Balance Act in 2015. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the practice of the work of the former government will continue with the work of the current government. In order to try to place certain parts of the law, so-called hidden taxes, also into changes and additions to the law in which it does not belong. With this amendment to Article 199, we estimate that the first new tax burden of the Government of Mir Cerar for 2015. The current ZUJF clearly states that the validity of this scale, taxation of 50% of the fourth class of the income scale, applies to 2013 and 2014 respectively. The State Secretary on the labour market could not explain with some valid arguments why they decided to extend this paragraph in 2015, but only by arguing that this meant an additional revenue for the 2015 budget of EUR 16 million. This means that it is clear that the current government will continue the work of the former government, which is a policy of tax burdens and debt policy. We estimate that this matter does not fall within this law, but that this should be discussed in a broader way and that it only proves that the tax burdens of both the former and the current government see only in the budgeting. For all these reasons in the Slovenian Democratic Party, despite the fact that there is also a paragraph in the amendment and supplementation of this law which says that, according to the Constitutional Court's opinion, the matter must be done constitutionally, we will not support this law. In particular due to the new tax burden, which passes to 2015. And we cannot compare the new tax burden with saving. We are concerned about the SDS client, but it is still coming in the preparation of the 2015 budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Mrs. Maria Antonio Kovacic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u78	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, I wish you a good day! Allow me to brief you on the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposed amendment to the Public Finance Balance Act. The bill contains three main amendments or additions: in practice, it has proved to be a problematic or ambiguous provision in relation to the conclusion of copyright and business contracts. Therefore, this amendment proposes a supplement which provides that when users of the budget assume obligations under an copyright or business contract on the basis of a public procurement procedure, they shall obtain an agreement already on the publication of the contract notice or the transmission of an invitation to tender and not on the conclusion of the contract itself. It will now be clear that consent will only have to be obtained for the publication of the notice; that is, immediately at the beginning and not only after the completion of the procedure. This amendment also eliminates, on the basis of the finding of the Constitutional Court, the non-compliance with the Constitution with regard to the conditions for obtaining the right to an old-age pension for civil servants. In view of the fact that female insured persons have been placed in unequal situations compared to men, public servants who have not yet fulfilled the same conditions for obtaining the right to an old-age pension as applied to male insured persons have been terminated earlier. The Constitutional Court has decided that the legislator must remove the finding of non-compliance within six months of the publication of the decision. This bill eliminates unconstitutionality by equating the conditions for both sexes, which, of course, we support in the DeSUS Group. In this regard, we have also received a proposal from the amendments explaining that persons eligible for age under personal circumstances, such as blind, deaf, civilian disabled and some other categories of persons with major health problems, are in virtually the same position as public servants. There, too, the contract of employment after the ZUJF ends earlier for public servants, precisely because of these personal circumstances. In the DeSUS Group, we have taught the amendments in depth, but in this respect we find that they are not the same positions as the Constitutional Court found in relation to civil servants, and this has also been explained in detail at the meeting of the home body, both by the Ministry and by the parties to the Legislative and Legal Service. Furthermore, it is an important objective set by the drafters of the law, including ensuring unchanged public income on income. This can be achieved with an unaltered income scale containing the fourth tax grade at a rate of 50 % as applicable for 2014. In view of the financial situation in which we are located, it is essential that this temporary measure, which was adopted for 2013 and 2014, is still extended. Members of the DeSUS Group will be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Dr. McKinley. Franz Cross, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u80	Dearly Honourable High Council! The Public Finance Balance Act is part of the iron repertoire of debates not only in Parliament but also in the general public, as it reached into the operation of many social subsystems and into the lives of individuals and individuals in 2012. Let's remember that it was adopted and when it was adopted in 2012, the total public spending, the actual expenditure, fell by about 400 million. Together with Banka Slovenije’s credit policy, this led to a decline of EUR 831 million in gross domestic product. Since the law has severely infringed on the rights of people, the compatibility of the decisions of this law has been assessed and the Slovenian Constitutional Court is also involved. Among other things, a number of incentives have been drawn up to challenge the retirement of public servants and employees when they meet the conditions for retirement but do not yet want to retire. The Constitutional Court has decided that the so-called compulsory retirement is contrary to the Constitution only in the case of public servants, namely, in the work of inequality with men in relation to the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement. The novel proposal removes this constitutional non-compliance. One of the rare provisions of the ZUJF, which enjoys the favour of the Social Democrats, is an additional fourth income class. With it are the then carriers, the real economic policy holders of 2012, symbolically but only a little, but they have mitigated the wrong tax policy from the past. They have broken the basic principle of solidarity in the reform of 2007. According to this principle, according to the principle of solidarity, the wealthier contribute more in order to provide social assistance to anyone in distress. Together with the abolition of the salary tax and the reduction of corporate income rates, the then change in income rates – and the abolition, clearly, of this class above 50 % – of the burden of the richer – had a negative effect of EUR 900 million at the annual level. With the same, roughly the same, even slightly lower GDP, this figure is maintained. Social Democrats are a party that is aware of the importance of maintaining the values of a solidarity and fair society even at a time that requires a strict adjustment to the requirements of the market. Everyone is owed in proportion to their ability to contribute to social solidarity. Whoever has higher incomes should also pay higher taxes. Social Democrats are therefore in favour of any correction of income legislation that improves the situation of the minimum income groups of taxpayers or measures that contribute to better classification of taxpayers by tax grade. At the time of submission of the amendments, the Ministry of Finance announced amendments to the Income Act. We support the intention of the Social Democrats. We believe that there is still a need to strengthen solidarity and social justice through the amendment of the law. We therefore expect the upgrade of today's action to make more contributions to those who can or cannot do less for different reasons. As the proposal of the novel prolongs the validity of higher taxation of assets and thus follows our starting points, the Social Democrats' Group will support the amendment of the Law on Public Finance Balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you. The text is by the Joint Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your respect! In the United Left, we are not pleasantly surprised that the Government is proposing changes to such a bad law as the ZUJF, rather than changing the regional laws and gradually abolishing the ZUJF. As we have already heard, today it is quite clear that the adoption of the first ZUJF was the main reason for the second recession in Slovenia, i.e. that economic growth decreased by €800 million in 2012, and was also the main reason why we did not have positive economic growth in 2013 but only a year later not to mention the pensioners and recipients of social transfers who felt these cuts most on their skin. So a very bad journey is that the government chooses to resurrect this unhappy law from the dead for its first public financial move. The estimated cuts for the following year cannot expect different results from the first ZUJF. So if the first ZUJF opened the door to the second recession, the second ZUJF will open the door to the third recession. The only positive aspect of this law that we see in the United Left is that it raises the issue of fair taxation of income. I am, of course, talking about a government proposal to extend the 50 % income scale for one more year. We welcome this step in the United Left, but we find it modest. The government proposes to maintain the limit of EUR 70,000 of net annual income, but only one percent of Slovenia's richest income is earned. How absurdly high this limit is placed, the following figures show. Firstly, in Austria, with an equal rate of 50%, all annual incomes over €60,000 are taxed. In the Netherlands, where the highest rate of taxation is still slightly higher, 52%, the limit is EUR 56,000 and we have $70,000. And here we are talking about two countries that have practically twice the GDP of Slovenia and twice the net salary. Therefore, according to the logic of the matter, the threshold of the highest income class should be at least twice lower than in Slovenia, i.e. 35,000 euros, not 70,000. Secondly, due to the excessively high ceiling, for example last year no member of the NLB administration paid a tax of 50 %. The only one who came close was the president of the board, his net earnings amounted to €70 000 240. However, this includes reimbursement of costs, which means that it was not even close to 50% of the tax. When the SDS government deliberately set the threshold of the fourth income class so high in 2012 – by comparison, the third income class starts somewhere at €18,000 and the fourth at only €70,000, it was clear that this would only reach a poor percentage of the best paid. This government, when it repeats this move, proves in whose interest it will work. The absurdly high threshold of the fourth income class illustrates another figure. Indeed, the limits of €70,000, with their annual salaries, will not exceed any of us who are currently sitting in this Chamber. None of the Members or ministers or the President of the National Assembly at the level of their salaries reach the threshold for the fourth income class, but we cannot say that the salaries in this room are not high, no one can deny it. It would therefore be fair for us to contribute more to the budget, especially in times of crisis. In the United Left, we have therefore proposed, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, that the limit for the 50% income class should be reduced to EUR 37,000 net or twice the third income class. Such taxation of the best-paid would not have markedly reduced the standard of living of the affected, nor would it have endangered the situation of their children. The measure would be proportionate and the budgetary effects would be positive. The current budget regulation brings about 16 million a year, with our addition to the budget it would reach an additional 30 million a year, but we were voted on. Obviously, it is easier for the government to cut the poorest because they have no resources and influence, such as managers who would be hit by the highest income for the rich. In doing so, the government has made it clear that a few percent of the richest are willing to sacrifice social rights and even so-called fiscal consolidation. Therefore, the novel ZUJF in the United Left cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleague! Today's proposal for a new Law on Public Finance Balance means, by its content, the harmonisation of the regulation with the Constitutional Court's decision on equal opportunities for retirement of all civil servants, irrespective of gender. The draft law also introduces a correction of the agreement to assume obligations under the copyright and business contracts concluded. The agreement to conclude these contracts should not be obtained until they have been signed, but before the commencement of the procurement procedure. In this part, we do not have and support for the proposed amendments and the addition of this law to the Christian Democrats. However, we do not agree with the extension of the maximum tax grade with a tax rate of 50 % for one more year, which is until the end of 2015. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we stand for lower tax burdens. In our economic programme, we have committed ourselves to proposing a change in the income scale that will reduce the income of the most productive employees, making the economy more competitive and productive, as more money can be spent on development. We also committed ourselves to abolishing the 50% tax rate of income, and also to extend the range of income classes. Why did we propose that? Because the economy needs it! On 12 August, Mr Boscarol announced in the media that production would move abroad for the sake of being able to pay its engineers well. In the process of dealing with this law on the labour market, we have tabled an amendment proposing the deletion of the extension of the maximum tax grade with a tax rate of 50 % for one year, i.e. by the end of 2015. The burden of this measure lies largely with the most productive employees, who we believe are the engines of economic and social development. The burden of gross wages in our country is already higher than in most comparable European countries, and any additional burden is an additional motive for these employees to find employment opportunities abroad. If we want to keep these personnel in Slovenia, we need to think about burdening their salaries, not additional burdens. Our amendment to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy was not supported by the coalition. The consequences of such a measure, i.e. the introduction of new tax obligations for 2015, thus a new tax obligation for 2015, will certainly be the relocation of another successful company abroad where they have significantly lower wage burdens and a more favourable business environment. As has already been said, one of such companies that has already done so is the company. In Slovenia, unfortunately, the business environment will obviously not improve, at least not in 2015, despite the different promises made by the current government. Her actions reflect a completely different picture as they are expressed in the words. Therefore, Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Finance Balance, because we are messengers of the economy in the National Assembly; because the 16 millionth impact on the revenue side of the budget is indeed negligible, but we claim that this is only a short-term nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I'm going through the list. Mr Andrej Shercelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! The amendment refers, of course, to the fact that, in the administrative procedures themselves, in the granting of licences, taking into account the silence of the State authority or the chairman, the simple application would be granted, of course, the application for copyrights, for copyrights; copyright revenues, of course, relate to income and income taxation and, of course, we are also talking about the 50% rate which is extended by this law. If we are talking about the 50% rate proposed by the Government of Mira Cerar to be implemented in 2015, then we need to talk about the fact that the ZUJF was an extraordinary measure. An exceptional measure in the sense that this exceptional measure was limited only to 2013 and 2014. The government of Mira Cerar assures that there are no extraordinary circumstances. This is the first case and therefore there is no reason for the ZUJF to extend itself. Here is the question of why, or I will say, when we talked yesterday about the correction of the 2014 budget, why it already interferes with economic policy in 2015. This is already in 2015. The prime minister spoke about preparing the budget for 2015 to then prepare all the measures to reduce public spending by 1.4% of gross social product or more than 500 million. This is shown, of course, already in the linear measures announced by the Minister of Finance, where he is expected to reduce the salary of all civil servants by 7%, unless otherwise appropriate, etc., if they do not accept all that was actually said. Why now, when we are talking about income, increase or extend this solution, if it can be identified and I can personally agree here that it is essentially a tax class – I am talking about, of course, 70 000 – which is in fact not in line with the basic Income Act. Why is the basic Income Law not also adopted? Look, if you're going to remind me if there's an amendment to something else, I'll tell you that it relates to the copyright contracts and the revenue from the copyright contracts, which are part of the income we're talking about right now. So I believe it was some kind of intervention in this case, but I'll tell you in advance that I'm talking about the ZUJF Act, which is also part of the income. This amendment also relates to this, Madam Secretary of State and Madam Vice-President. Now, if we are talking about income and that copyright contracts are also part of this income, which concerns the amendment, then, of course, the whole tax scale needs to be opened and in fact coordinated here. To harmonise, of course, that a consistent tax scale will include what the Prime Minister or Mir Cerar Party proposes, that those who are more decent will be less taxed and so on and so on. The proposals made by the United Left may also need to be harmonised. Here I would point out, in the light of the debate, that the scale refers to gross wages, not net wages – so no matter how much the banker has net wages, it is important how much gross he has. And also, if we compare tax systems and talk about 50% tax, for example, in Austria, then it should also be borne in mind that there is a general benefit of around €12.13 thousand in Slovenia; but this is a general benefit for everyone; those who are taxed at 50%, and those who are not taxed at all because they do not even reach income of 12%. Thus, this comparison is somewhat more complex, and this solution is not really any correction that the Social Democrats are talking about. Errors in 2007 and also data on the lack of financial expenditure, as mentioned above 900 million, are not in fact correct. We also agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party that those who are more powerful should contribute more. We have no problem with that. It's always a question of how much more. How much more; whether that's half of what they deserve, too much or too little – we have a judicature about it – whether they have to be taxed with 95% or collect them all. Because here it refers to how much more motive they have to actually work and the motive to actually serve anything else in this country; let it be for managers, let it be for young people leaving this country, let it be for anyone. In short, if the income scale is changing, then the Mira Cerar government should come transparently to the National Assembly and make a consistent change, but not through the ad hoc measures that were in force when there was a state of emergency – it has also been said – and this extraordinary situation resulting from the ZUJF continues now. I just didn't imagine such untransparent policies being run by the government of Mira Cerar, actually not. Whether this is due to the fact that some tax and expenditure tsunamis are already being prepared, as we can understand it today, and it is likely that measures are also being prepared that will administratively increase the problem of paying taxes, and here we are proposing a mere administrative simplification. It will, of course, be clear in a few days, probably in a few weeks when it will actually happen. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are firmly opposed to what has already been said that some ad hoc measures govern tax policy in the country. We also expect those who have opposed such solutions in the ZUJF to take these solutions and the solutions they proposed at the time into account now. I do not know what has changed here now, but it is very convenient to simply extend some measure, using another constitutional provision that is known to be necessary and, I will say, in such a perfidious way introduces some new taxation, because old taxation should actually stop. We propose transparent measures in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are also in favour of fair taxation, we are also in favour of those who have more assets and who earn more, paying more taxes, and the question is, of course, a limit and more, because the tax system has to be competitive. And when we talk about wage burdens, wage burdens in Slovenia, in addition to personal tax or income, we need to take into account the contributions paid by employers and employees, and in fact on behalf of employees, by employers, and then we get some information about how much the employees cost. This is a very ugly thing to say: how much an employee costs, but this is what the competitiveness of the tax system does, of course, even when it is as simple as possible and it has as few bureaucratic and administrative barriers as possible. This is also the case with our proposal and our amendment. If we are talking about the tax system, we expect the government and the coalition to come up with solutions that will be consistent, which will not be ad hoc and will be adapted to the competitiveness of the Slovenian tax system both in implementation and in making, as you said, a fair tax system. However, the word righteousness can be of different significance for different, but it is certainly possible to obtain consensus. The reduction in the highest tax rate in 2007 from 50% to 41% has also improved the classes and there has been a consistent tax scale that has also contributed to the lack of deficits in the state budget or public finances in 2007 and 2008. This was the result of this tax reform, if you want, but not the result of 900 million manca, which is spoken here, is repeated and so on. When it does happen again, I'll call you back. Public finances had a surplus at the time, not a deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you. I would like to warn you that we are discussing the amendment to Article 1 of this Law. You discussed Article 4. Please hold on to this. Thank you. Mr Marko Pogačnik has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u88	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I will now personally support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. This amendment speaks of the author's contracts, the agreement of 8 days, and as my predecessor has already told you, the author's contracts are part of the income, part of the income scale – and my predecessor has also discussed the topic that is now on the agenda. And, Madam President, I ask you to learn what the Income Act says and what income includes. And allow me to continue with the debate, the same is true for the United Left Group – income is not only pay but all the income that a person achieves. I will support this amendment, but of course this is a significant issue for the current government. This current government will continue the practice of the former government when we witnessed some ad hoc projects in all these new tax burdens, a respected secretary of state! This amendment, which you are now introducing or which you are extending in 2015 – I do not see any reason for you to include in the law additions and amendments whose basis relates to any decision of the Constitutional Court. Look, we've got November here, we've got a month of December, we could take the time, and I would say that all of these tax packages that you're predicting for 2015, you bring at once, but not that you're doing some ad hoc situation here and trying, like the previous government, to introduce some hidden taxes in some way. We have seen this before in the previous government, and I think that this policy will continue the same. And that's not good. I think we should have a broader debate, I think we should review these tax income classes and, above all, have some arguments as to what this brings to the Slovenian budget, that it will not be the same as in excise duties when you increase excise duties, but actually the budget has lower revenues. I am surprised, however, that this amendment and the tightening of the Public Finance Balance Act will be supported by the Social Democrats, who also said in their position that it is an iron repertoire and this iron repertoire, which was introduced by the government of Janez Janša, in the words of the Social Democrats, and has contributed to the consolidation of public finances, will now be supported and extended for 2015. I really don't understand these things. Slovenia loses its competitiveness, every year is worse, we have budget rebalances, it is seen that the government's policy and work in 2104 was not appropriate to prolong and increase public deficits and that there is no direction here to ensure that Slovenia is more competitive. We must once be aware here of what it means to exhaust these matters, and especially in terms of salaries, respected. Wages are not some kind of capital and some kind of wealth, but wages are a well-deserved income, and we cannot tax wages indefinitely. Here we should make a change, and as already colleague Shircelj mentioned that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are of course absolutely committed to the fact that taxation will be fairly distributed among the entire population of the Republic of Slovenia. ZUJF also predicted and, I would say, give those measures that those who are richer, just to contribute more in this crisis. By this measure, when you extend the validity of this income scale to 2015, you are in fact only reducing the competitive position of the Republic of Slovenia and thus making it difficult for the actual employers to obtain a quality labour force and reducing consumption alone. I personally believe that in Slovenia, once this thought of tax policy and the burden of rich, poor people should be changed – in which direction? On this income scale, he could have had several discussions. In Slovenia we know that wages are far below the European average, but because of the environment in which Slovenia is offered, many multinationals are no longer established in Slovenia and have them in neighbouring countries. In these neighbouring countries, the Presidents of the administrations of these multinationals receive 6 to 10 times the salaries paid by Slovenian managers. In Slovenia, the time should come to consider the introduction of an income scale, when it would be somewhere much higher than, say, the Slovenians of these earnings, and to tax this class at a very low rate, say 10%. Why? To attract these people serving in Slovakia, Poland, to transfer the seat to Slovenia and to pay 10%, say, of the million revenues it has, and to fill the Slovenian budget, to support education and public health. I expect that this debate will also take place in Slovenia once and that we will make a competitive environment. It is not wrong to understand that the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support this proposal. We will not support it either, I would say, mainly because the matter was not sufficiently substantiated and because the new tax burden is mixed into one thing that has nothing to do with it. I expect from the government of Mir Cerar, from the current coalition based on ethics and had to start working in this direction too transparently. Not now, after this, the distinguished Secretary of State, to say that the income scale and the Income Act are a binding vessel that is tied to one year. You would still have time, today on November 19th, to bring these matters, separate from this law, to the National Assembly by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs. Matei Vraničar, representatives of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye to everyone again! I am moving to begin with congratulations on the lucid integration of the individual provisions of the bill, and I will abstain from cynicism. First, with regard to the amendment. The amendment is not feasible in practice and is therefore not supported by the Government. First of all, it is unclear from when the eight-day deadline as proposed by the SDS Group starts, on the other hand, the procedures for receiving individual materials are such that they do not allow for a decision earlier than within 14 days. In view of the debate, I should also be allowed to discuss and explain certain solutions in relation to other provisions of the Public Finance Balance Act. It has been mentioned that the Public Finance Balance Act has brought solutions which are temporary in nature that have been necessary in some exceptional circumstances, but I should point out that the Public Finance Balance Act has been divided into two parts. In the first part, it brings lasting solutions and permanent interventions to a number of different laws; in the second part, it brings temporary solutions, where it really only applies during a certain period. If we want to extend these temporary solutions only for a short period of time, but not to transform them into permanent ones – is it more appropriate to correct the period of temporaryity of a measure or is it more appropriate to move this measure into a system law? This was a dilemma faced by the Government when it considered how to implement a solution regarding the fourth income class. It has decided that, given that the situation is as it is, it is more appropriate to go to the Public Finance Balance Act because the Minister has clearly announced that this measure as a permanent measure does not support or support but supports a more radical change in the income scale, which requires more time than we have at present. However, given that the government's first priority is to ensure the gradual consolidation of public finances and thus ensure stability of revenue in the coming year, it is necessary to make the 2015 budget rebalancing reality and not to listen to the same debates as we did yesterday that we did not have the adopted Real Estate Tax Act when we proposed amending the 2014 budget, we are trying to do otherwise and are preparing or bringing measures to ensure the stable revenues of the 2015 budget into the budget before we bring or before we propose to the National Assembly to approve the 2015 Rebalancing Proposal. In this way, all of us, as budget rebalancing agents, as well as you, who will ultimately decide on it, will know what revenue we can and will not have in 2015. As for the income scale itself, in fact, when it came to the fact that we wanted to put extra burden on wages. It has already been said that the income scale includes not only wages but all active income. Unfortunately, developments in recent years have gone in the direction that many of the incomes on the scale have been excluded from the scale and thus given to recipients of these incomes special, we can say, in a sense, privileged positions. Even though we can question this, we must take into account the reality. No government starts nothing from the beginning, from scratch, but begins to work on what past governments have prepared or have already established and decides whether or not it can continue on these foundations. This is also how this government decided to amend the Public Finance Balance Act this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you. We don't have a Spring List anymore. [[…]] There you go. Procedurally, Mr. Mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u92	Vice President! Look, I thought that when the secretary of state said that, when she said that, you'd make an indiscretionary statement if she started talking about cleaners, what would you do? I think that we are here in the National Assembly, you are holding a meeting and of course the meeting is public, as part of the agenda you give your word and here there is no Government as executive authority, nor is there a representative of the Government or anyone else who will give a basis on what to start or not begin with. I quote, she just said, "Do I start with the cleaners?" So I would ask you to conduct the session by discussing the subject on the agenda and, of course, such interlocutors by the executive branch as well as the appeal to keep to the darkness and to appeal to you about the darkness and so on. Of course, I respect that you did not take this into account when we had a discussion with our colleague, but I would like you to draw the attention of the Government of Mir Cerar to these matters in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you. It agrees that we are discussing what is currently on our agenda. The word has Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u94	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State! I will, of course, support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which we have received at the tables. But I must nevertheless point out, Madam President, to Article 4. You know, the extension of the maximum tax grade. What does that mean? Ladies and gentlemen, this means, first and foremost, our country's lower competitiveness. Now you ask yourself which European country came out of the crisis with higher tax burdens. No one! Do you think that Slovenia will come out if we tax those who are the most productive, most successful? Do you think that Slovenia will come out of the winner's crisis? No, the opposite! There will be fewer jobs due to this kind of tax and financial policy. There will be fewer jobs! Who else will invest in Slovenian companies? Who's gonna open the production here? Let me remind you, on August 12th, the coastal innovator, the entrepreneur, the famous Slovenian Mr Ivo Boscarol, said he would move production, including the developers, to Italy to pay more. I come from the Vipavska Valley and I know what social bomb in this environment would mean moving production due to tax burdens to neighbouring Italy. And we're playing with fire! We'll tax our entrepreneurs even more. Once again, here is the contribution to the budget of €16 million. You know, it's short-term. Look, we're throwing 100 million euros into Slovenian banks - nobody's responsible for this. Here we go for these 16 million euros. In the long run, however, young innovators, the most capable, those who have added value to Slovenian society, will go abroad because they are too burdened here, and will be able to create more abroad. For here the state does not give them any opportunity because of such tax policy. Finally, at one time, the finance minister, who was also awarded the Minister of Finance of Europe, Dr Andrej Bajuk, said that tax policy must also be stimulating. In this case, with this law and Article 4 of this Law, tax policy is not conducive to citizens and citizens. He kicks the ones that are the most productive. That's not a relationship. And I say the consequences of this policy will also be reflected in the coming years when we young development engineers are actually lost. Is that what we want?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, I am pleased that the debate on income under this amendment, which I predict will be re- tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, with those suggestions made by the Secretary of State, is said to give us a period from which this is considered, so that this amendment will also be formally, technically and legally in accordance with the proposal of the Secretary of State and there will be no more grounds for refusal. The second thing I would like to say is that there is a valuable assessment that, unfortunately, many incomes are excluded from income, as has been said. I quote here a representative of the government. Some incomes are excluded, that is true, from the entire synthetic income, which means that they are specifically taxed. These are capital incomes, these are incomes earned by someone on the basis of profits and, after all, such practice is also in other countries, so we have two systems in Europe. On the one hand, this allows – if I recall correctly, Finland also has such a system – that synthetic incomes are excluded. If this is a valuable judgment now that someone is sorry that this is not the case anymore, sometimes we had this included; even when Dr. Marble was Minister, and therefore we had a completely opaque tax system. We had a tax system that taxed mobile phones, parking lots, we had a tax system that required records, and also, from interest to not know what else – everything the administration at the Ministry of Finance could remember. If we go into this tax system, it will be even more uncompetitive, not just because of rates, but because of other matters. I am actually afraid of such a tax system, which has already had to be repaired. I fear him because he will make it possible for those entrepreneurs who are in Slovenia today and who are actually working here to leave Slovenia. I hope, I think that there are many of us who have once been entrepreneurs or who will ever be entrepreneurs, and that we actually know what this actually means, and it would be very good to be understood by those who have never been entrepreneurs and may be writing regulations on this. This is how I would really like to see this change in the way things are being examined in terms of simplicity and also in terms of the economy, what it really means for them. For this is the announcement of some new administrative, bureaucratic measures as well as measures that will require more taxation and thus less competitiveness. In fact, I do not agree with this if Dr. Marble meant that he would reward those who are more decent and more innovative and combatable, etc. With regard to these matters, I would like to appeal once again that we actually consider what kind of taxation we want in Slovenia: do we want to have some ad hoc tax measures, such as this measure now imposed by the Government of Mira Cerar, or do we want to have some consistent tax system? I am afraid that we are going to ad hoc measures that will not contribute to anything other than the fact that the country's competitiveness and the competitiveness of the tax system will be even less, including from an administrative and bureaucratic point of view. And that won't bring us out of the crisis. This will not increase the transparency of the tax, economic or social system. And what opened up today in this debate when the tax rate increases – see also the reason for doing so already, is not right and is again invented. For the 2014 budget, it is stated in the law that all laws which will then apply must be submitted to the National Assembly. And there was no real estate tax. I hope this is the only law before the 2015 budget. If not, put it in the set. Put it together, not partial, because it's unconstitutional. These are ad hoc measures that don't lead anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that! I would only respond briefly to a few questions in this debate. First of all, I would answer Mr Pogačnik about his income and about all his income being included in it. I would say no, because we have a cedular but not an integral income level. This means that it excludes income from assets and from capital, it is said, not all, so more or less, those who touch work. Another time. Mr Šircelj, with regard to the revised rate of income in 2006 and its consequences, I would say that the surplus that the government had at the time was not the result of this rate of income was not the result of this, I think, of the new income scale, because this income scale has softened the contribution rates and has in itself led to the loss of income from the budget. If the country had surpluses at the time, it had them due to record economic growth, but not because this income scale would have been so effective, as it proved to be later in the years of crisis, when we actually started recording large deficits. Third time. Mr Horvath, who warns against introducing higher rates of taxation or income scales, that the richest will get out of Slovenia, would reply that, at present, if we look at the structure of emigration, people with secondary education are the most fleeing among higher-educated profiles, especially sociologists and humanists. So especially those who do not find employment here run, which is understandable, but not those from whom you dispute; they are said to be people who are to flee from taxes. The proportion of these is negligible, or someone who can normally live in Slovenia, probably has no reason to leave this country. I don't know if he doesn't have enough euros a year, but I'd like to, I don't know, make 150 dollars on taxes, but we can just say that -- I don't know, we don't need it. [[…]] And third time, Comrade Vrtovec. You say that tax competitiveness is important in that we need to see that the tax rates in Slovenia are such that they are attractive to foreign investors and that we have virtually no other choice. Here I would like to stress once again what we have always stressed in the United Left that Slovenia still has a choice at this time. At the moment, in Slovenia, the ownership of banks and system companies is still internal, domestic accumulation is still possible and investments can be made domestically. That is why we are also opposed to selling this. Once we sell this once, then – yes, as you describe – we will be subject to competitions to the bottom, like many other peripheral countries and simply Slovenia will have no more room for manoeuvre than lower taxes, lower social standards and flexibility of its labour market, so that it will attract foreign investments, because the domestics will no longer be able to make profits flow abroad. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u99	No more applications for discussion. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Somehow I would have defined myself to this amendment by my colleagues in the SDS. We already know such solutions in the legislation. For example, one such interesting is in the Tax Procedure Act when we deal with tax neutrality when we reshape companies, and it is actually envisaged that if the tax authority does not respond so much and for so long, this is in some way considered to be valid unless they subsequently change that decision. Thus, from this point of view, the proposal is interesting. Now, why isn't he interesting? A few arguments have already been made by the Government's representative, and I agree with that. The fact is that we have received this amendment very late, so it is difficult to identify it in concrete terms and to study it well and to justify it. However, I definitely agree that it is somehow incomplete in this part, since when is this period considered: is this from the filing of the request or from when? So we have some sort of criterion. And the other is that in eight days, anything is extremely difficult to do. Even with a very good will, I think that this deadline could probably start there at about 15 days or later. Now, as for those – here was quite a lot of talk about taxes and so on – this is in the area to which I have a special affinity. Perhaps I would only touch what Mr Vrotec said about the exit from the crises of those countries that have somehow reduced taxes or somehow in this direction. We are members of the European Union as a country, we have a lot of rights, and one of them is also for the materials that the European Union is preparing. And the European Union or EUROSTAT is also preparing a report on what happens to taxes or what trends are in EU Member States. We are talking about what is the share of the tax on GDP, what are the effective tax rates and so on. I must admit that this report, which has been somehow available and deals mainly with 2002-2012, with a particular emphasis on recent times, mainly shows that the tax rates or the share of taxes collected in GDP are increasing. I don't know, maybe we should just be a little more specific and maybe you were thinking about some Slovak or some individual country. However, to a large extent, this is not true for European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! I am also grateful to you that you are somehow allowing old practice in the National Assembly, that normally, when considering the first amendment to which law somehow the debate develops a little wider, and I respect this determination, and, of course, I will continue with the amendment of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Already my colleague Jernej Vrtovec said that the amendment is actually worth all the attention and that it must be supported, which I will do myself. In this place I would like to say first, because sometimes New Slovenia - Christian Democrats are somehow unfairly referred to as advocates of even capitalists, capitalists and so on. It's not true at all. Many have read our program. They say he was very good and so on. Minister Marble also told me that he read it and very carefully and viewed it as good. It's only on the cover that we're advocating a model of the socio-market economy. So it's social in the first place. We're not inventors. This model works well in our most important economic partner, Germany, also led by Christian Democrats. But this isn't so important right now. The fact is, in tax policy, we need to be very careful; we need to carefully examine what individual tax provisions bring and what tax laws take away. Tax policy must be stimulating. Here I would like to challenge the wrong thinking or indications that a colleague of Luke’s, who had just left the hall, was trying to glue them to us. See who's running from Slovenia? Yes, individuals are fleeing, which is even more worrying, from Slovenia they are fleeing due to the heavy workload of the company, the whole of the company and with them worth the whole team, developmental and so on. And here's our concern. I guess we have a right to be aware of that. How many of these people there are, how many of these companies - there are quite a few, and there are some of them, of course, waiting for every new government to bring what it will bring. They have expectations, positive expectations. But when they see that they are wrong in positive expectations, then they act in terms of the growth of their company. This is certainly the truth, and every wise master and owner of the company is doing so. In the last two years, the New Slovenia Group has made two regional visits. As a rule, we are going to visit companies, a small economy, which we already know represents around 99% of the total Slovenian economy. And what I'm saying here is out of the question. That's what we hear. The economy requires us, politicians, a better business environment, tax burdens. Since, at the final stage, this can certainly be demonstrated by various mathematical models, if we tax companies are to be able to decommission, companies will develop faster, grow more rapidly, the tax revenue of the country may be the same or perhaps negligiblely lower at the end of the period. It is true that we are now talking about some 16 million revenue to be brought into the state budget by this 50% income scale. This must be some kind of static calculation based on some of the data we have, I don't know, at the end of the year for which we have accurate income data. But the question is, if we were to make a dynamic calculation, that is to say, what's this profit going to be like, I'm just wondering, at the end of 2015? What will it be like if qualified people, highly educated people, those with knowledge, and businesses move out of our country? This is said not to be a taxpayer with us, but somewhere else. Where the business environment is more favourable. This is essentially a business, and everyone can calculate for themselves if a company is capable of paying a development engineer – I don't know – 9,000 pardons EUR 5,000 gross, how much is this net in Slovenia, and how much is elsewhere. Gentlemen like Boscarol and Akrapović know exactly if 5,000 euros will be willing to pay gross for a development engineer, how much more favourable and more stimulating and competitive he will get in a country. So we warn well-intentionedly, but we can see that there is no listening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u104	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! I would also like to respond to the statements made in the second round of the debate. First of all, Mr. Christmas. You know, our wage burden is among the highest in the European Union. 14 days ago, I have Facebook here on the phone, is – if I am not mistaken, still a member of the Social Democrats, who I know from acting in underage clients, and I will not name it – on Facebook gave a comparison of the gross salary of Austria, Germany, Slovenia and below a comment: "What does Slovenia offer for such a higher banking burden?" When paying EUR 3 000 gross in Slovenia, a thousand 595 in Austria will receive a thousand 903 euros. Why would this man come to Slovenia if he was capable of working for better money in Austria? But we need people like that to be here. Therefore, the added value that they have an opportunity to additionally employ. Let me just say one more thing: It's not enough to sit in the National Assembly, not enough to sit in offices and so on. Go, actually go – Mr Horvat already said we went to entrepreneurs, craftsmen, businessmen. You go too! And what will be one of the essential things they will tell you — we are overloaded! Mr. Christmas Tillen, we can go to one entrepreneur together sometime, and you'll see what they'll say: "We're overloaded, we can't even breathe anymore. I can't pay high wages because the country takes half my salary if I give it to me!" That's the essential thing our economy deals with. Once again, Madam Secretary of State and others present, on taxation or that this scale will continue to be the same. I repeat, the National Assembly, let's not accept this. Let's not accept! Because I don't agree with Mr. Moon. Slovenia also leaves those who are the most capable or those who have added value and who would be less burdened abroad and would have more wages to pay for it. Once again, Mr Boscarol is thinking about moving all production in order to be able to pay his workers. And we can't watch a company go abroad. And we can't just say, as Mr. Moon has said, that whatever goes, let it go. No! No! Every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia is important to us to stay in this country and to help this country on its way out of the crisis. We cannot just those who want to make a lot of money and are able to make a lot of money, but to cross over to say that whatever goes abroad, they will be less burdened there, because we do not need them anyway. This is not a relation to citizens and citizens. And entrepreneurs are not some capitalists – ugly capitalists are called. Please! These are the people who give work; the people who also finance this national assembly. Just because they're under tax, they pay our wages and we can't treat them like this. Also not to the most productive ones that mean added value.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you. The Secretary of State, Mrs Mag, has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to respond to some over-the-counter statements regarding workload or the use of the expression of labour taxation in Slovenia compared to other countries. If we look at OECD comparisons or the European Union, essentially the burden of work needs to be segmented into income, employers' contributions from wages and employees' contributions. And when you compare essentially each of these segments, you will find that the burden in Slovenia in the area of income is on average or does not deviate significantly from the burden in other countries, nor in the field of burden with employers' contributions. Where we give up the most, the burden on employees' contributions must be taken into account in these debates, as whatever is discussed on discharges, it should be borne in mind that when we talk about contributions, on the other hand, social security rights, which we also need to talk about, are on the other hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Tillen Christmas wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u108	I would only respond to what Mr. Wrotec said. I am not yet as skilled as speaking and redirecting words or attention, so I would just point out that I had previously shaved on one of the data that was given, namely, he was directly attached to the outcome of the crisis and to the tax burdens as they were imposed. In this regard, I just mentioned Eurostat's study, so I can't take that data back, well, since you didn't actually attack it, you let go of something else, and that's taxation in the Republic of Slovenia. I know that one. I agree that she's quite tall, but earlier, I repeat, I have not commented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you. Because there's no more interest in the debate. Is it an interest in the debate? I'm going through the list. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u110	Very briefly, but because of the misunderstandings. Look, the employer has to pay both taxes and contributions, but he doesn't care what he pays. He has to pay for it, and in these respects we are the most burdened. If we add up all the contributions that the employer has to pay and also all the tax burdens, the employer in Slovenia pays more than other employers in the European Union. And you know, employers don't care what little he's going to put in, but how much he's going to put in. And more than elsewhere in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u111	Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u112	So all the data's not replicas. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u113	Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Earlier, the Secretary of State had said that our amendment could not be supported because it did not have a date from when it was considered and that the deadline of 8 days was too short. I would expect a responsible state official to amend the amendment in such a way that such a solution becomes operational. This only shows the relationship of how everything is done, if anyone suggests, only it's not feasible. There is no positive approach by the Government in these cases. And since this has not been done by the Government, I would like to announce that we are applying the amendment, which provides for the following: If the authorising officer does not decide within 14 days of the invitation to tender, the agreement shall be deemed to be given. However, if the Government has a better solution, I suggest that our text improves further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm going through the list. Mrs. Guček Zakošek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! However, I would still be involved in the discussion on the income scale. Again, I would like to point out that we have a situation, like ownership, on my left side, I hear a one-way defense, on my right, far right, in the other direction. It looks like we're gonna have to start talking about these things, and as far as I know, this government is in principle advocating solutions that will relieve those people who bring us added value in the sense that it will look at the income scale. However, I am here to join the government's opinion that we cannot just look at how much is taken from gross wages, but we need to look closely at where this is going. Because if we're to compare countries with each other, we need to know not only how much the employer does, but what the worker gets for it. And yet here in Slovenia we must make it clear that rights – social, health and so on – are well regulated. Telling people they're not, I don't think it's fair. Because we can finally refer to Switzerland, where the worker gets the first gross, very much money, but it covers itself completely with what he wants, say, regarding health insurance. So we have to be fair here and say what we get. However, I agree that it is not good that our best staff are going out, that our employers are hiring them, even the same, and perhaps abroad, but that they are employed by foreign companies. Because it's not that simple, just how much someone gets. Yeah, it's important how much he gets, because he's so valuable and that brings it to the state. We are making growth, making development, and that depends on this targeted economic growth, which we are all talking about, because, finally, it also depends on how much it reaches the tax box. There could be so much more if there are many more of these people in the workforce. In short, this debate is complex, and I think it will have to be opened at another time, perhaps another space, because we will not save it today. However, we have similar opinions as regards this, but action will only have to be coordinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you very much, mag. Margareti Goochek Zakoshek. I give the floor to Dr. Franc Krizanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u118	The European development model is based on the importance of the quarterly sector of various activities that generate or maintain human capital. Such developments and reinforcements cannot be implemented at low tax rates. Therefore, in Slovenia and in other relatively less developed countries, one of the less developed signals is a lower share of government revenues in gross domestic product than on average in the European Union. So here we have a reserve rather than no, so with tax reforms, that 2007-2012 situation has made this situation a little worse from this point of view. This is where it needs to be repaired. I think it's also moral for those who have higher income to make a little more contributions through a progressive scale. There is no way to conclude that one who moves into a developed economic environment will pay low taxes there. Low taxes are paid in tax havens, where an end will have to be made sooner than later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign in. Yes, Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. I promise I'll make one last call at this point. Of course, discussions on tax policy can be at different levels, academic and so on, but look, let's start with a practical case of life. Mr Vrtovac explained: the gross EUR 3 000 in Slovenia is the same with some average relief of EUR 1500 net. Gross EUR 3 000 in neighbouring Austria is about EUR 1900 net. Good, what, 27% more. Why do we already have the Apache Civil Initiative? We all know her, and we can't save her. And it is probably not possible under income law either, because our income legislation or probably also under European law is based on global income. But the problem is in the income scales. Why? In neighbouring Austria, they have a relatively high annual income, at least compared to Slovenia, which is not taxed. And there we have problems then that our daily or weekly migrants from Pomurje, from Koroška, so from the northeast of Slovenia in particular, about 12 to 15 thousand are said to have large income accounts with us. And it's bad will and they say, "I'm sick of this country that made me go with my stomach for bread and then hit me with my income." And that's the problem. Of course, we will probably never have the same income scale within the European Union, it is illusory to expect that, because we will never develop the same. So this is – how much does an engineer get or, more generally, an employee in different countries with the same grossness. That's what this is about. Here I agree with the concern expressed by my colleague Guček, President of the Committee on the Economy, and I am glad that these warning signals are coming from her. So obviously we need to move something around here. Of course, social standards, health standards and these things, okay, we have this well arranged for us, but probably in another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I find that there are no more applications for discussion, so I conclude. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the sitting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act, abbreviated procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go, ma'am. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u122	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The main solutions to the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act can be divided into three content sets. The first objective of the bill is to transpose Council Directives which must be transposed into the Slovenian legal order as from 1 January 2015. Thus, the draft law transposes a directive amending the rules for determining the place of supply of telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services provided to non-taxable persons, so that the place of taxation is regarded as the place where the recipient of such services is established. These services provided to non-taxable persons are subject to two specific arrangements, given that they are provided by taxable persons not established within the Union or by taxable persons established within the Union but in another Member State. The arrangements constitute a simplification for taxpayers, since they do not need to be registered for VAT purposes in each Member State of consumption, but only in one Member State. In order to identify and submit the VAT bill, an electronic regime will be established All in one place. The second directive, which is transposed into the Slovenian legal order by means of a proposal for a law, is a directive on the application of the reverse tax obligation. This measure, which shall apply until 30 June of the following year following the current regulation, shall be extended until 31 December 2018 and shall be subject to greenhouse gas emissions trading. As from 1 January 2014, the territory of Mayotte has the position of the outermost French region in relation to the European Union and therefore its position should also be regulated in terms of VAT. Further, the third measure is a measure against abuse where, by means of a proposal for a law, a part of the Council Directive amending the VAT Directive on detailed rules for the return of value added tax to taxable persons who are not established in the Member State of return but in another Member State is transposed. Thus, the provision of the compulsory annex to the invoices to the VAT refund application is applied. The purpose of administrative simplification is to introduce a special regime for taxable persons who are not established in Slovenia and who provide only occasional international road transport services for passengers. These taxable persons shall be simplified in the identification procedure for VAT purposes. There is a special account to be submitted by such a taxable person for the calendar year. VAT is also provided for on an annual basis. The next set of amendments included in the draft law represent minor substantive and terminology adjustments necessary for the implementation of the Financial Administration Act. The law provides that the proposed amendments will apply as from 1 January 2015, with the exception of the specific arrangements for the management of international road passenger transport services to be used as from 1 April 2015, thus making it available to the debtors and the tax administration a transitional period to prepare information solutions to support this system. Ladies and gentlemen, take note of all the explanations I propose that you support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mrs Urški Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you for your floor. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at the second session of 6. 11. 2014 as a parent working body was considered by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal for a hearing following a reduced procedure, which was also confirmed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the position of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the amendments on 3, 11, 18, 19, 21, 24, 28, 29, 32, 33, on the new 35a of Article 37 and 38 of the legislative proposal, which was tabled by three coalition groups on the basis of written warnings from the Legislative and Legal Services. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives and representatives of the Government from the Finance Ministry and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. Within the framework of its powers, the Legislative and Legal Service, in its written opinion, in its initial opinion, pointed out the individual uncertainties of the text, which are defined in substance below, subject to specific comments to each article. The representative of the proposer presented to the Committee, in an introductory additional explanation, the substantive changes introduced in the three basic content sets the necessary alignment with the four directives of the European Union, the special arrangements for international road transport services for passengers and the minor formal changes related to the adoption of the Financial Administration Act in order to adapt the wording adopted to the dictatorship in the individual articles of the proposal in question. At the same time, it expressed its support for all the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. Following a brief presentation of the opinion of that service, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments of the three coalition groups take into account the comments they are making. The discussion on individual articles raised concerns about the correctness of the drafting of the text itself and the content proposal submitted, whereby, as was the case with the amendment of the Income Act or the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, they would raise the entry threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system. In the context of the text under consideration. The reply issued by the representative of the Government, among other things, is that the unification of the entry thresholds would avoid administrative complications of individual taxpayers, otherwise may be useful, but would still impose certain differences, as the level of the entry threshold in the VAT system is set in a different way than in the system of income or corporate income taxes. In order to simplify the VAT system, the Committee was informed that the Government had received several such proposals at the same time and that certain positions would be taken in the coming weeks. In addition, it was stated that a broader project is being prepared within the Ministry of Finance with a view to improving the rationalisation of the overall tax system and that measures that fall within a single context also with a view to more efficient collection of that tax, the issue of raising the threshold for entry into the VAT system is raised more meaningfully within the framework of a comprehensive sectoral solution. For those reasons, all such proposals shall be examined outside the scope of the proposed law in question. At the time of its consideration, the Committee adopted all amendments to the coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposal together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello again! On 1 January 2015, the deadline for transposition into the Slovenian legal order is part of the Council Directive establishing specific rules on the place of taxation in the provision of telecommunications services, RTV broadcasting services and electronic services to persons other than taxable persons. After the proposed law, so it will be from 1. 1. 2015 forward place of taxation in the country of residence of the permanent or temporary residence of the recipient of the service. Simplification of corporate obligations will enable electronic regulation, so-called mini VEM. Special arrangements are also introduced for foreign taxpayers who are not established in Slovenia and occasionally provide international road transport services for passengers in Slovenia. The solution highlighted will simplify a number of administrative procedures, which have made it easier for foreign bus carriers of Slovenia to avoid today. It's also up to 31. 12. 2018 prolongs the application of the reverse tax obligation to transfer greenhouse gas emission allowances. Since the proposed law brings four EU Council Directives to the Slovenian legal order, which are to comply with the European legal order, as well as a number of simplifications, we will support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u128	Mr. Vice President. Hello again! The proposed amendment of the Value Added Tax Law brings four directives into our legal order, the first of which concerns the harmonisation of the rules on the place of taxation in the provision of telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services provided to non-taxable persons with a general rule on the place of supply of services following the principle of taxation at the place of destination. This Directive brings administrative simplifications and must be implemented as from 1 January 2015. The following Directives concern the return of value added taxes to foreign taxpayers, i.e. those not established in the Member State of return, but in another Member State. This is also an administrative simplification of such claims. The third of the directives brought into our legal order by this amendment of the law relates to the optional and temporary application of the mechanism, the reverse tax liability for the supply of goods and services susceptible to fraud, in particular with regard to the extension of the deadline for the application of the mechanism, the reverse tax liability, for the transfer of greenhouse gas emission rights. This amendment proposes that the application of the reverse tax obligation applicable after the current application to the transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances should be extended until 31 December 2018. The last of the directives concerns the outermost regions of France, in particular Mayotte, in relation to the European Union. In addition to the transposition of the Directives, the aim of the amendment is also to remedy some of the shortcomings of the existing regulation, with the aim of administrative simplifications for taxable persons who are not established in Slovenia and who provide only occasional international road transport services for passengers, a special arrangement is introduced for foreign taxpayers who occasionally provide international road transport services to passengers. The bill will be broadcast once a year and not monthly, as it has been so far. The second objective of the special arrangement for occasional international road passenger services is to ensure a comparable tax treatment of such services, irrespective of whether such transport is carried out by Slovenian or foreign road carriers. On the one hand, therefore, administrative obstacles are being reduced for this category of debtors and, on the other hand, our financial administration will be able to monitor and account for value added tax in Slovenia. The draft law also includes the substantive and terminology adjustments necessary for the implementation of the Financial Administration Act as of 1 August 2014. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Franz the Crusader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u130	Honorable President of the High Council! The debate on amendments to the Value Tax Act is usually accompanied by debates based on different concepts or ideologies, and we can also tell you how the economy works, how tax bases, how tax rates in this economy are going to be affected. There wasn't all of this today. On the committee responsible for finance and monetary policy, as the President stressed, we voted without a vote against. Thus, we are fully in agreement with these changes. Several speakers have already told me what is going on in the current changes to the value added tax regime. What we would like to point out is that this novel also changes the taxation of international passenger transport. And we expect, above all, that this will reduce the number of abuses and increase the budget revenue to some extent. What we would like to stress on this occasion is that some changes are also being introduced here, although they link the Value Added Tax Act with the Financial Administration Act. Our attention is aroused by the merger of the customs and tax administrations into the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia on 1 August 2014. This merger was aimed at more effective financial control and, consequently, at increasing revenue from taxes collected. After several months of operation of the Financial Administration, the unions, clearly, have already pointed out certain shortcomings in the functioning of the Joint Authority. They presented opportunities to address these shortcomings and to work more effectively in advance. In the coming months, we will be considering the 2015 budget rebalancing and we want the Social Democrats to serve the competent ministry before addressing the balance sheet by analysing the effects of the tax and customs merger – clearly, the effects on public revenues – and responding to the union proposals to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of this restructuring. In this way, we will have a realistic assessment of the potential tax debt to be recovered by the State and the possible additional tax collection and reduction mechanisms for the grey economy. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new Law on Value Added Tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u132	I will be brief, I will not burden you and read the texts that I have heard here, are more or less the same and attributed to the Ministry of Finance's presentation, which also proposed a change and a amendment to the law. The law is actually of a technical nature. It is more than clear from this that it is a matter of amending the four directives, which, of course, more or less, we all already know. For me personally, I must say, of course, it is encouraging, above all, that by this law we will finally allow some bus that is currently avoiding Slovenia to actually come to Slovenia, pass through this territory and we will be able to get some more euro out of the pocket for tourists. And that is why I welcome and also support such adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Mir Cerar will be presented by Mrs Marus Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposal for a law shall transpose into the Slovenian legal order the Directive amending as regards the place of taxation in the provision of telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services to persons who are not taxable persons to be established as from 1 January 2015, hereinafter the Directive establishing rules for the return of value-added tax to taxable persons not established in the Member State of recovery, but in another Member State, the Directive concerning the optional and temporary application of the reverse tax mechanism for the supply of certain goods and services susceptible to fraud, in particular with regard to the extension of the time limit for the application of the reverse tax obligation to transfer greenhouse gas emission allowances and the Directive as regards the outermost regions of France, and in particular Mayotte. However, the draft law also includes the substantive and terminology adjustments necessary for the implementation of the Financial Administration Act as of 1 August 2014. For example, the draft law includes a specific provision for telecommunications broadcasting services or electronic services performed to final consumers irrespective of where the taxable person who performed these services is established. A VAT obligation arises in the Member State of consumption. The use of special arrangements is optional. This provides for two arrangements, namely a special provision for telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services provided by taxable persons not established within the Union, and a specific arrangement for telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronic services provided by taxable persons established within the Union but not in the Member State of consumption. The change in the place of taxation for telecommunications services, radio and television broadcasting services and electronic services that the taxable person, irrespective of where he is established, within or outside the Union, will do to a person who is not a taxable person and the associated specific VEM mini-regulations will have a favourable impact on the taxable persons operating in this sector. Since those services will be made possible by the new taxation of the Member State in which the recipient of the service is established, the use of the mini VEM will make it easier for taxable persons to fulfil administrative obligations, as they will meet all new obligations with the Slovenian tax authority and will not need to be registered for VAT purposes in other Member States. A special arrangement for foreign taxpayers who occasionally provide international road transport services also constitutes a substantial simplification of the fulfilment of tax obligations for those taxable persons who have now had to be identified for VAT purposes under the regular procedure and fulfil all obligations per month, in accordance with the VAT-1, while they will be newly identified for VAT purposes following a simplified procedure that will be faster and propose a VAT calculation and pay their tax liability only once a year. The new personal arrangements are expected to encourage the voluntary payment of VAT from such services and to reduce the gap between the burden on road transport activities carried out by registered taxable persons and foreign persons. In the SMC Group for these reasons, we support amendments to the VAT Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to 14. Agenda item – Defence proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2013. The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal for the final account, and I conclude that this is the Secretary of State, Mrs Mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u136	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! The implementation of the State budget in 2013 marked the work of two governments. The revised budget was adopted in November 2012 and the budget rebalancing in July 2013. The main characteristics of the 2013 accounts are as follows in the figures. The budget deficit for the State budget in 2013 was EUR 1.5 billion or EUR 12.3 million less than foreseen by the State budget. This represents 4,4 % of gross domestic product. The financial claims and investments accounted for €3.7 billion, with a total of €3 billion aimed at increasing capital shares and capital investments, of which €3.2 billion for the recapitalisation of the five banks. In line with the 2013 funding programme, the country owed EUR 7 billion both to short-term and long-term debt securities and to EUR 1.9 billion in government debt. On the revenue side, the implementation of the budget marked a very low realization of income. With the lower total income of the income and the unaltered amount of that part of the income belonging to the municipalities, the share belonging to the State budget decreased by almost 190 million compared to 2012. In comparison to 2012, revenues from corporate income tax were almost halved. There has been a substantial increase in income from the tax on immovable property of higher value compared to 2012, and it is still unclear how the Constitutional Court will decide on the constitutionality of this tax measure applied in mid-2012. As a result of the changes made in 2012, the revenue from the balance sheet tax was also significantly higher. In the case of transport taxes, higher VAT revenues were reflected in realisation, due to the increase in rates and activities carried out in the second half of the year with regard to the detection of non-payment of value added tax. A new tax on lotto happiness and 1 was introduced. 1. 2013 Financial Services Tax. The revenue from the annual duty on motor vehicles has been increased. Among the recent revenues, however, it indicates that there is a significant increase in income from the surplus of the Bank of Slovenia expenditure, which has eased the lower income from the dividends of state-owned enterprises. We have shown 933.8 million euros in revenue in 2013 in terms of European funds, which is almost 11% higher than in 2012. On the A side of the balance sheet, it appears that expenditure on salaries and employers' contributions has been reduced by 7.3% compared to 2012, and expenditure on goods and services by 5.4%. As early as last year, interest payments were greatly increased. Transfers to individuals and households decreased by 10% and transfers to social security funds and other public funds increased. Transfers to public institutions decreased by 3,5 %. Investment expenditure increased strongly due to the use of European funds, while investment transfers decreased by 2% compared to 2012. In July of this year, the Government received the Court of Auditors' Audit Report on the proposal for a final account. The Court of Auditors gave its opinion with reservation and ordered the Government and individual ministries to prepare corrective measures and types of recommendations. The government and the departments have already submitted response reports to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors currently assesses their adequacy or satisfaction. The Court of Auditors has also drawn up proposals for corrections by the auditor, which the Government has examined and decided not to take into account in the final proposal. The reasons for this are also provided in writing to the National Assembly. Your Honor! The Government proposes to the National Assembly that you accept the proposal for a final account for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The proposal for a final account was considered by the Commission for the supervision of public finances as the parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Public Finance Supervisory Commission shall be at its 2nd regular session 5. 11. The draft final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia's budget for 2013 were treated as the parent working body. In its introduction, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance said that the financial year 2013 was very difficult, as banks had to be recapitalised. She then provided some basic data on the implementation of the budget. The revenue of the state budget was EUR 7.79 billion, which was 305 million less than planned by the rebalancing. The expenditure was 9 billion 315 million or 316 million less than planned in the balance sheet. Thus, the deficit amounted to a billion 535 million and 4,4 % of the gross social product. Tax revenues were 140 million less than planned and revenues from the EU 252 million less than planned. These, including expenditure for the EU, were less than planned. The President of the Court of Auditors further said that, following the revision of the proposal for a final account, they had given an opinion with a reservation to the general part of the final account. He estimated that the findings were very similar to those of previous years and that the errors were similar. According to their calculations, expenditure in the income and expenditure balance should be lower by EUR 9.3 billion – building infrastructure on the lower Sava, compensation and the like. Expenditure in the financial receivables and investments account is too low at € 2.1 billion. The remuneration in the same balance sheet is too high for 476 million. With regard to the correctness of the implementation of budgets, he explained that the opinion had been tabled with reservation due to numerous violations of the laws which are repeated year after year. The biggest errors are with respect to the implementation of public procurement and transfer laws. In the revision of the regularity of business, the Court of Auditors issued 34 corrective measures to the 2013 budget. has also pointed out the issue of guarantee for TES 6, where there are no specific resources to cover regressive claims and the guarantee is not adequately secured. In addition, he drew attention to the value of the asset balance of the Republic budget and the municipalities, where the value of real estate of EUR 26 billion was unrealistic. Representatives of the Court of Auditors provided further clarifications on the audit. They drew attention to a balance sheet where there was a discrepancy between the book and the actual state. The debate first raised the question why the Government did not take into account the audit proposals and what could be done to take this into account. Representatives of the Court of Auditors have explained that similar corrections have been made since they can be made in accordance with the Public Finance Act, but the Government never takes these corrections into account. They explained that, in this case, it was necessary to act first in accordance with Article 97 of the Public Finance Act, which provided for what would happen if the State Assembly did not adopt the accounts. At that time, the National Assembly may order the Government to take into account in the revised accounts the corrections set out in accordance with the audit opinion by the National Assembly. A large number of discussions were held between the members of the Commission on the value of real estate listed in the balance sheet and on the guarantee of 440 million and insurance. The members of the Commission considered that this guarantee was not adequately secured, while the representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that the insurance of the credit with coins was legally appropriate. The debate was also about public debt, EU funds drawback, the public sector wage system, the Fiscal Rules Act and the privatisation of state property. Finally, the Commission voted and adopted the following decision: The Public Finance Supervisory Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, following its consideration under Article 168 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I ask Mrs Antonio Kovacič to present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u140	Thanks again for saying that. Your Honor! The final budget account shall be a realisation document showing the revenue and expenditure for the previous year. Thus, in 2013, the state budget received around €7.779 billion, which means that about €305 million was less than planned with the rebalancing. The expenditure achieved was around € 9,315 billion or around €316 million less than planned in the balance sheet. This means that the budget deficit amounted to € 1,535 billion, or 4.4% of GDP, which is in line with the planned balance sheet. Tax revenues were down 140 million. Despite the fact that the revenue from the European Union was 252 million less, however, these revenues were the highest in all years. Expenditure for the European Union has also been less than planned. In the financial claims and investments account, the capital injections amounted to EUR 3.5 million, mainly at the expense of the recapitalisation of banks of EUR 3.2 billion. In 2013, we committed to a good EUR 7 billion. The Court of Auditors’ audit report on the 2013 final budget account did not bring any significant surprises or changes compared to previous years. In the revision of the draft accounts, they gave an opinion with reservations on the general part of the accounts and also on the correctness of their implementation. The Desus Group notes with concern that the findings of the Court of Auditors are very similar to those of previous years and that mistakes are similar. As regards the general part of the final account, they point to some cases of books that have led to the fact that revenues and expenditure are not properly shown. According to the Court of Auditors, expenditure in the revenue and expenditure balance should be lower by EUR 2.3 billion. The expenditure in the financial claims and investments account is too low, amounting to EUR 2.1 billion, and the same balance sheet revenue is too high, expressed at EUR 476 million. Expenditure in the financing account is too high for €473 million. With regard to the correctness of the implementation of the budget, the opinion has also been tabled subject to reservations due to numerous violations of the law, and unfortunately they are repeated from year to year. The biggest errors are with respect to the implementation of public procurement and transfer laws. 34 corrective actions have been issued in the revision of the regularity of operations and response reports have already been received. The Court of Auditors also drew attention to the issue of the guarantee for TES 6, where there are no specified resources to cover the regression claims and the guarantee is not adequately secured, and to the issue of value in the assets balance of the Republic budget and municipalities, where the value of the real estate is more than EUR 26 billion shown as unrealistic, and therefore, according to the Court of Auditors, the government documents for 2013 do not show any real value. In the Desus Group, we are concerned about these repeated warnings from the Court of Auditors and the opinions given with reservation. Therefore, in the Desus Group again, we call on all those responsible to follow the current and past recommendations to improve the functioning and implementation of the budget provided by the Court of Auditors. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a final state budget account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u142	Your Honor! The final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is usually an informational act on the management of public finances of a certain period of the past, even though it might be possible, but as a rule wisdom is not drawn from it. We do not want the Social Democrats in their position to dispute the importance of the Court's audit report, which gave an opinion with reservation on the closure of the account. In this regard, we only express the expectation that the findings similar to those in previous periods will nevertheless be reflected in the text of the 2014 Final Account. When we discuss the final accounts for 2013, we must return at the time of the adoption of the budget and documents. In 2012, as an opposition party, we supported the 2013 government budget of Janez Janša. The opposition's support for the basic act, which provides for the lives of citizens and citizens, is a rare case in Slovenian parliamentary practice. The reason for our support was the vote of our parliamentary group's amendments, the provision of an additional €16 million to the underprivileged higher education budget and the provision of additional funds for children's nutrition. Following the government's launch, Alenka Bratušek followed the budget rebalancing, which ordered a new state policy, halted the rapid reduction of public spending and the reduction of transfers, which at that time significantly contributed to the negative growth of the economy. It recognized the policy of starting up the economy, creating jobs, restoring optimism among our people and restoring confidence in the country. It made it possible to identify a different policy towards the public sector, whose purpose is to act, not to take it as it tries to be presented to the public, but to give, to give, to education, to quality health care, to provide, to everyone with wide access to social rights, without excuses and without exception. At the end of 2011, another event marked the end of the year. At the end of the year, the country recapitalised five banks amounting to EUR 3.2 billion, all with the aim of ensuring the stability of the banking system. In this way, they are expected to fulfil the necessary condition for the recovery of the economy in Slovenia in order to ensure the release of the credit crunch. Critically, we now find that the logical co-existence has diminished. Moreover, banks strongly point out that loans will only be available once the economy is restructured and new recapitalisations are not completed in the meantime. In the light of this debate, which at times reminds us of the discussion on chicken and egg, there is also interesting information we have recently seen. This says that Europe and comparable parts of the world have similarly taken on the rehabilitation of banks, but not companies. America, China, Australia have allocated 4 to 5% of GDP and only 1.7% of GDP to help the real sector. In these frameworks it is also appropriate to look for opportunities for a different direction for the future. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a final account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the United Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u144	Dear President, the rest are present! In the closing account, i.e. this accounting report on the implementation rate of the 2013 budget, certain violations have been identified, which we have already heard, which I will point out a little further. The reported infringements of accounting and other rules, which in some cases are repeated despite the multi-annual reports, show a certain rigidity of the Ministry of Finance in taking into account its own rules and recommendations by the Court of Auditors. However, the extent of these violations or irregularities is not such that the final report on the implementation of the budget should be rejected. In the Group of the United Left, we wanted to draw attention to at least a few violations or irregularities occurring in this final account. The first is the case of the bank's SID. Roughly said, the SID bank is borrowing the money that the Republic of Slovenia has to repay. First, it had to grant a certain amount of insurance which it then received from an undertaking which received a guarantee with a certain fee back. The funds belong to the Republic of Slovenia and SID pays a certain commission to the bank. The Ministry of Finance should demonstrate these business events, i.e. insurance, possible cashing, as an obligation, as long as it is only a guarantee of course or income and expenditure. The Ministry of Finance is running this on some off-balance sheet accounts. The Court of Auditors says that this is not in accordance with the law. It has repeatedly requested corrections and the Ministry has not acted. Given that the Court of Auditors has been drawing attention to this error from the Ministry of Finance since 2010, it would be expected that the Ministry will respond accordingly. So I'm asking, what was done to eliminate the wrong practice? The second example is, of course, the issue of the guarantee for the loan of TES. The Guarantee Act requires the Republic of Slovenia and the TEC to conclude a guarantee insurance contract setting out the resources to recover the amounts paid at the time of possible redemption. The contract was concluded and the resources were not precisely defined. Some kind of currency Bianca has been issued, i.e. the debtor, which allows, in the event of a guarantee being redeemed, the claim of the Republic of Slovenia to be repaid from any free source. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance notes that, in the event of cashing up, TEC would have become insolvent or insolvency would have been such a reason to cash out the guarantee, so there is no property from which the State would have paid back. In addition, the country is owned by the HSE in one way or another by 100 %. In short, if we are formally reading the law, the legal conditions for issuing the guarantee have not been met, but it is merely formalism. The problem of TES is not that they used the Bianca menu to provide insurance, but that they did not check the profitability of the investment before the guarantee was issued, since the likelihood of the guarantee being redeemed depends on the economic investment. This is not what the Court of Auditors has determined, but this will be one of the tasks of the Commission of Inquiry and of course of law enforcement. The Ministry's explanations show that the TES assets will not be able to pay the costs that the Republic of Slovenia would have incurred if the guarantee were to be cashed. This is not surprising, since otherwise the guarantee would not be necessary and would not be requested by the bank. It is of greater concern that the Ministers, the Government and the National Assembly have not obtained an adequate analysis of the economics of the project when deciding on the guarantee. Now everything shows, this recently in an energy interview told ELES Director Alexander Mervar that according to current electricity prices in TES 6 will not be profitable. The revenue won't cover the costs. It is therefore highly likely that the guarantee will be cashed and that the budget will be charged for an additional 440 million expenditure. We expect this issue to come to the bottom of a parliamentary investigation group and law enforcement bodies. At this point, I can say that the issue of the guarantee, which has to be agreed with the Court of Auditors, has been issued legally in contravention of the law, which explicitly requires the definition of the source for the reimbursement of amounts paid out of the guarantee, in all, only an administrative error in the criminal story. For example, the third example is the Climate Change Fund. The Fund should be set up to finance climate change measures in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act. The sources would be revenues from the sale of emission vouchers. These revenues should be for a good 10 million per item, and only five million were written in instead of the fund. This is, to a certain extent, a purely accounting problem, and the real problem is that these measures are practically not being implemented. I am afraid that this accounting problem is an indication of the potential unintended use of funds that would be necessary to adapt to climate change and would be paid repeatedly because there would be less damage in agriculture and on buildings, only the tip of an icy mountain. In the United Left, we have already pointed out at the meetings of the competent committees that measures to adapt to climate change in agriculture have been envisaged through a specific strategy. These measures were implemented only for one year and to a minimum. But it's not an accounting problem, it's a political and economic problem that needs to be solved. Despite these irregularities, for which we appeal to the government to remove them as soon as possible and as quickly as possible, we will support the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u146	Dear President, Madam Secretary of State, together with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! When adopting the final budget for 2013, as any other final account, it is essentially just a matter of getting acquainted with the actual situation and then just a formal vote, and we can change nothing in fact. But if we look at the data of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013, first and foremost something will be very in the eyes. In particular, it will be in the eyes of ladies and gentlemen, a public financial deficit. And the government deficit amounted to 4,4 %, which means that by 1.3 % of the point it was higher than in 2013, when it was 3,1 %. And the other thing that comes to mind is an opinion with a reservation issued by the Court of Auditors. These are old mistakes that are repeated, so says the Court of Auditors, and at the same time they point out that the Ministry of Finance did not have enough will, energy to include their warnings in the final budget. But we're moving on. The government explains that the financial year 2013 was very difficult for Slovenia, mainly due to the recapitalisation of Slovenian banks. For these purposes, we have spent as much as €3.2 billion, mostly tax money. In fact, the problems of Slovenian banks, as I have already said, were mostly settled by taxpayers. And at this point, allow me to warn you, and at the same time, I ask, until when, ladies and gentlemen, we will allow this to be allowed for taxpayers to rescue Slovenian banks in this way. This is, of course, just a rhetorical question, but if we give someone something, then we rightly expect them to pay us back, and so it should also be in the relationship between Slovenian banks and taxpayers. But it seems we can be most pleased that next year no new recapitalisation of Slovenian banks will be necessary if I recall Governor Jazbec's words from a week ago. But the question is when will the end of this vicious circle of problems with the Slovenian banking system end. In 2013, the state committed a total of EUR 7 billion. The debt trend has been among the fastest growing countries of the European Union in recent years and has already strongly exceeded the Maastricht criteria. This debt, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Secretary of State and everyone else present, will have to be repaid sooner or later. However, it will not only be necessary to pay off the principal, but also, of course, interest. And they're already worth over a billion euros. And given the latest trend of this government, I fear that this debt will continue. This rate of growth, as I have already said, has long been unsustainable and almost 7% of the state's debt repayment expenditure is already going to go on and will only get worse with further debt. More debt means more interest costs, which means more deficit, which once again means additional debt and continuation of the negative spiral. This is a vicious circle that must somehow be cut off, not only because of the demands of the European Union, but also because of ourselves, so that we can provide citizens and citizens with basic things, publicly accessible health care, education, public services, what you are always stressing, as well as resources for the development of entrepreneurship and the economy. The second point I would like to point out here in the presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group on this final budget is the appropriateness or inadequacy of insurance for the loan for the construction of the sixth block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj. In 2013, a state guarantee amounting to EUR 440 million was issued for this project, which was also decided by the National Assembly, but I should point out that the Court of Auditors in its audit report had pointed out that there were no resources available to cover the regression claims and that the guarantee was not adequately secured. Above all, this concerns us, we worry that in the end, the taxpayers will be the ones who will pay off this part of the guarantee in essence. Let us say this: Members of our parliamentary group, i.e. the Christian Democrats' Group, as the only parliamentary group in the last year of the guarantee for TES 6 have not supported and also in the New Slovenia project TES 6 we have been opposed from the very beginning. That's why, I repeat, we were the only party that made that decision. And the current situation with regard to the issue of the sixth block of Thermoelectrica Šostanj shows that we were also the only ones who were right, because this sixth-block issue will continue. We have already overpaid it and the fact is that we were the only ones who knew at the time that the project was not profitable and as such inappropriate for any budgetary financing or provision of guarantees for it. In recent years, the media have also informed us of new and new irregularities and illegal business in this project to build the sixth block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj. Otherwise, on the Commission, the Secretary of State said that the guarantee with the bills was okay, that it was not problematic, but that time would also show here who was right, or finally the Court of Auditors or the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Bozič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u148	Dear President, thank you for your word, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 provides a final insight into the implementation of the budget, which has been the force of the two previous governments. Last year, in a public financial sense, we can no doubt call it extraordinary, in an already difficult situation, the country with the long-awaited capital injection finally approached the banks' rehabilitation. By cleaning the balance sheet, a prerequisite was thus established to ensure the stability of the Slovenian banking system. It was one of the key steps in a series of measures that will yield fruit, first through financial restructuring, still largely over-indebted economy and with a slight delay, including business. The fact is that our banking system, at any time when banks need it most, burdens the state's treasury. That was immediately after the conquest, and so is today. Part of the scope of the burden is attributed to a slow response to the problems encountered and part of the need to do much more in the future in the area of ensuring the quality of bank management and monitoring. The first said will not be without reflection, as our Group is also committed to investigating the bank hole and the measures in this regard will undoubtedly be followed. On the other hand, in our view, supervision could also be a suitable step in bringing together three key supervisors, the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Simplification, transparency, responsibility. Thus, one controller with data, a full review of the developments in financial markets and policies and sanctions or, as is discussed today, a modern term — with teeth, like many well-intentioned but organizationally fragmented and malnourished loners. If I focus now on some key areas of the final account. The deficit after the cash flow was realised slightly lower than the planned budget or its rebalancing, but still high, at 4.4% of GDP or in money, a good billion and half euros, and unfortunately for the new, as we have been spending between 10% and 20% more in recent years than we have been able to collect on the revenue side of the budget. On the other hand, the lower realisation of the revenues of the state budget was against weights in the form of a lower amount of realised expenditure, the revenue side suffered a significant reduction in tax revenue and a lower realisation of European funds than planned. This is about €250 million, which have not been exhausted from the financial perspective 2007-2013. In particular, the latter had a left share in a 300 million-dollar reduction in expenditure compared to planned after the rebalancing, as the lower realisation of European funds was directly reflected in the expenditure side. Special attention was also given by the SMC Group to the material and the previous address by the representatives of the Court of Auditors, which, on the basis of the findings of the 2013 revision of the correct implementation of the budget, delivered an opinion with reservation. A number of inconsistencies have been identified with the applicable rules in the areas of labour law, the taking-over and payment of budgetary obligations, the award of public contracts, the conclusion of public-private partnerships and the allocation of transfers. In the SMC Group, we are aware of the importance of the opinion with reservation and expect the current government team to take a firm approach in the implementation of future budgets in the past of the repeated irregularities, to continue or strengthen good practice on the elimination of the irregularities already identified by the Court of Auditors, thereby saving time for both its own staff and the staff of the Court of Auditors, so that they can focus on new challenges and act preventively also by making government proposals for new legislation from the above-mentioned areas clear, transparent and coordinated in a broader sense and committed to the National Assembly taking into account reasonable deadlines and levels of urgency, as good legislation is the first defender of its users and ensuring that it is reduced in future mistakes. The Court of Auditors also makes its recommendations more broadly, for example, it touches on improving its business in a way that it believes would help to make the use of budgetary money more rational. We believe that this part will also be carefully examined by the Government and incorporated into its further actions and activities. To summarize briefly what we say or what we especially place on the government’s heart. Ensuring modern and effective control, including through the pooling of certain supervisors, taking into account the recommendations or reports of the Court of Auditors and more consistent control over the expenditure or consumption of the State, taking into account the medium and long-term capacity of the State to pay the commitments undertaken. Dear Members, in the SMC Group we will support the decision on the adoption of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The final account gives the whole government event in 2013. She's giving a picture of the government what she was actually doing. It gives macroeconomic results, it gives weaknesses, it also shows what was wrong, and it shows what was good. We cannot say anything here about the report itself or the final account itself for 2013. What is worrying is the opinion of the Court of Auditors, which made a reservation, not for the first time, and not for the same mistakes. This opinion, with reservation, shows that communication between the Government and the Court of Auditors is not going well. It's been a long time, probably, for years. It's the same mistakes over and over again. In other words, governments, whatever the case, do not take into account the Court of Auditors' opinion. And here is the question of how much validity the National Assembly will give to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors shall have the role of supreme supervisor over spending, on prudence, on economy and on the correctness of the use of tax money. The Court of Auditors also explained to the Commission for the supervision of public finances the main errors and also reported the difficulties it has with regard to communication with the Government itself. On the one hand, the Court of Auditors finds the irregularity, on the other hand, the Government responds that it considers that there is no irregularity. In fact, these irregularities are drawn from year to year, even from decade to decade. And it's dangerous, dangerous for the whole country and dangerous for how taxpayers' money is actually used. And here have already been mentioned some topics that have been the subject of infringements or non-compliance with regulations, non-compliance with those rules that are almost entirely proposed by the same government and adopted by the National Assembly. And then the Court of Auditors finds that the Government does not actually take into account those rules which it itself proposes, such as the Public Sector Salaries System Act, the Collective Public Sector Contracts, the Collective Non-economic Contracts, the Regulation on the Advancement of Public Servants in Paid Classes, not the Public Finance Act, the Basic Law of the Ministry of Finance, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 and 2004, here we are talking about that law, which we also discussed yesterday, the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on Direct Payments to Sub-contractors, the way in which people carry out the economic service, the Rules on the procedure for the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on the Law on the Long-term Loans of the Republic, and so on the law on the financing of the Bank of the Republic. And because power is being taken and, if you want, also the legitimacy of the Court of Auditors, we are not in favour of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we oppose the State Assembly confirming this final account for 2013. And as I mentioned in the Commission's report on the supervision of public finances, it is only the National Assembly that can order the Government to work differently. It is no different in terms of what the National Assembly will say, but it should do as it says in the laws it has adopted and approved by the National Assembly. It is therefore strange that such a final bill is accepted. It's been adopted all the time. The coalition probably accepted it every year. The Court of Auditors shall draw attention to repeated errors, violations of the law, rules proposed by the Government, and shall adopt the National Assembly. And we're going to do this analogy, we're actually going to go to confirm this final account in 2013 and maybe even something to the government to prepare some and so on and, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that we will treat the closing account for 2014 in the same way and that there will be a list, so many and so many laws, so many and so many regulations that the Government is in breach of that the government does not respect. This is why we will not support this final account in the Slovenian Democratic Party, despite the fact that the final account relates to 2013, when even part of 2013 was run by the Government of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it was then organised or held by the President of the Government and, of course, it was also in coalition. We cannot keep repeating our mistakes and giving the Ministry of Finance in the event that I am a slightly more specific, green light because I am in breach of the rules. We can't. Things are getting too serious. We can't do that in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here we have on one side 440 million guarantees for TES, on the other hand we have public information that there is 280 million money that is not known, which means that on the other hand someone can cash this guarantee, the European Investment Bank. We have no face in the Slovenian Democratic Party to tell taxpayers, see, another 440 million must come from your taxpayer money. That's why we can't do it. This is only one of these cases; all others are listed in the Court of Auditors’ audit report. The second is, of course, the reality of all of this. Whether the Court of Auditors saw the property balance in the congregation, the state, or not, is also a reality. For example, the value of real estate increased by one billion in 2013, about one billion and 150 million. How? Based on the GURS evaluation, the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. Wait, we think this is real data, on the other hand, property in the country has been falling for several years, which of course is wrong, but in the balance sheet we're going to confirm it, it just grew. So prices have risen, I don't know why, the prices of kindergartens, schools, everything that the country actually has in the broader sense of transition, even the municipalities are here and so on and, of course, we can't confirm such data here. Not professionally, it's not politics. This is about expertise and whether the National Assembly will actually confirm all the breaches of the rules that the Government has actually committed. Given that these statements are not realistically presented, given that there are huge errors, 34 rules are stated by the Court of Auditors, as I have already mentioned, we will not do so in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I will not go through individual projects now, nor will I talk about the macroeconomic effects and macroeconomic state today, which is also reflected in this final account, but actually about the fact that such a practice has to be stopped once. I think today or at this session is the right time for this to end. Without any accusations, without anything, but because we will not have bad conscience and because of mistakes made in several governments in the past, they are simply being corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Ms Urša Ban, Party of Miroslav Cerar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. We have already heard today that this final account, which we are dealing with today in the National Assembly, is merely familiar with the facts or figures that have been implemented as a result of the implementation of the 2013 budget. We can analyse, assess the effectiveness or failure of commitments made, the objectives set by the 2013 budget. Yesterday, we were also partly familiar with the facts or almost figures for 2014, and we see that we are essentially in the same state, which is due to the non-acceptance of some important reforms. The situation that we have today, when we have a public debt or a current balance deficit, is a real surplus of revenue expenditure, increasing by a good billion and a half a year when we are in charge of an additional 7 billion euros a year, really requires some immediate action from us. Measures that are linked, as has already been said several times today and yesterday, by balancing public finances, measures that will boost competitiveness, measures that will boost economic growth, measures to create new jobs, restructuring businesses, rehabilitation of the banking sector and so on. This needs to start immediately so that we do not deal with similar problems next year or when we implement the 2014 budget. The financial claims and investments account itself shows this change in the increase in capital shares – €3.2 billion at the expense of recapitalisation of banks, of course in order to rehabilitate and ensure the stability of the banking system. To the extent that this is successful, we can judge for ourselves. As far as income is concerned, expenditure. Implementation was lower, both on the revenue side and by 305 million euros lower than planned, as well as on the expenditure side 316 million less than planned. As a result: 4,4 % of GDP deficit. On the revenue side, the already mentioned European funds, the drawing-up of European funds, have been much lower than planned. Here I expect the Government to remove all obstacles that prevent or limit the pace of contract conclusion and the implementation of all other activities related to the use of European funds so that this delay will not occur in the future. In the end, however, if I touch further on the opinion of the Court of Auditors which delivered its opinion after the audit of the final account, the opinion with reservation, both on the general part of the final account and on the correctness of its execution. Here it is worrying that, for the most part, there are repeated errors in the accounts. Sometimes it is even identical business events, and here I really expect the Ministry of Finance to address irregularities and that future statements will be prepared on the basis of properly documented business events. It is said that business events, revenue and expenditure will be properly demonstrated. I am aware of the more difficult opinion with reservation, so I really expect that we will not deal with the same warnings given by the Court of Auditors today at the end of the 2014 accounts. In this opinion or the Court of Auditors’ report, a number of recommendations are also made to improve business. It would also be good to study and integrate them into the government's business processes. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Tiln Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. I certainly did not expect to be back in line so quickly, given the order, because there were only 11 in front of me, I could say, older, more experienced colleagues, and it seems they did not report to the debate. I was hoping that you would share with us some of your experience gained through the years of budget adoption and validation, processing the Court of Auditors' reports. I regret this to some extent, and I think that such a debate, broader and more lively, would give this topic a significantly greater weight, I think as much weight as it deserves. The only thing I would add here is that, let's say, in the private sector, if the company got an audit opinion with a reservation, the management would fly. This is difficult in the Republic of Slovenia, given that we are changing governments very quickly. That's kind of how it happened with us. But if I went back to society, it is said that if we were to take the country as a society and that it has some shareholders or owners, these are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I would expect from this administration a higher responsibility or some responsibility as to how the money of these owners actually works. My position is the same as I gave it earlier for the stage, which was presented as the position of the Mir Cerar Party's Group of Ambassadors, and I remain in this regard. However, I hope that there will be some debate now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Now the government has a chance, if you want. Don't you? Good. Is there any other desire to discuss it? Mr. Shircel, I apologize to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much again for your word. In the position of the Group of Members, I have already set out the fundamental reasons why this final account should not be accepted, why the National Assembly should not do so. Now I'm going to say some things again. Once again, I will reiterate that the National Assembly is the only institution that can impose on the Government the changes made by the Court of Auditors. We're the ones who can do this. As a result, nothing surprising will happen in this country except that the Government will act in accordance with the laws proposed by the National Assembly, in accordance with the regulations adopted by the Minister of Finance or individual ministries. That's all. Nobody's gonna get any hair off their heads because of this. Given that the Court of Auditors says that errors are repeated from one final account to another final account, the Court of Auditors lists 34 rules, 34 legal acts which the Government violated in 2013. Then you still have the audit report, in short, this correspondence between the Government and the Court of Auditors, I assure you, is huge. There are also many meetings between the Government and the Court of Auditors. Nothing happens. Decades. I think we should cut it once. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must start acting in accordance with legislation. And Mr Christmas, my friend Christmas, I agree with you if this were to happen in order for a private society to have such an opinion with reservation, the administration would fly. This is where ministers change, and the secretaries of state usually remain one and the same. The directors of the Directorates responsible for this non-execution have a great deal of responsibility and remain the same. I think they were there while I was talking, some of them were smiling. Because nothing's gonna happen! When you said, maybe those who have more experience here, because, yes, I advise you, nothing will happen, because for decades nothing has happened and there are one and the same people more or less in public administration jobs if you want, at the Ministry of Finance. And I don't blame anyone here in particular. But it's the state administration, the state bureaucrat, whatever you want. The Minister doesn't know how one salary was billed right or wrong. He finds out at the end when he gets the Court of Auditors' report. Nor can he know, because he has to deal with other matters at the Ministry of Finance or at another ministry, at which, however, this happens and is simple, but the Court of Auditors is just to put these things in order. There's no problem with a mistake. Everyone who does is making mistakes. The problem is that the government simply doesn't take that into account. That's the problem. And that's why the government itself is in an irregular state. And I won't support it. That's the problem. And here we can talk about the amounts, about all of this and the only State Assembly is the one, I repeat, who can cut this Gordy knot and order the government to act in accordance with the law. That's all it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. If a representative of the Government, a representative of the Government, wishes to speak, he may apply by raising his hand. Here you go. Good. I give my word to Mr. Franco Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I have been reported for debate on this item of the agenda and then, after a thorough reflection, I have decided not to discuss it, for I have always said that this is a debate on a certain certain fact, and that this debate cannot change anything. I fully agree with Mr Shirtzl's thinking. I think these are thoughts that can lead to some movement in this area. However, I would like to say that we are in the past, because my memory in this Chamber goes a little further than that of some who have now come clean, and I don't want to say that I happen to know anything more, but I remember a little bit back, but I have to say that in 2009 we discussed the closing account for 2008, and that we didn't accept that closing account at the time in the debate at the beginning and then there were some alternatives, I could say, even blackmail, and at the end of the day we accepted that final account and something not changed. Even now, something vital is unlikely to change, even though it should change. However, I remember that something happened when the Court of Auditors issued a decision and a finding. And this is that on the basis of the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, one of the ministers resigned, and this was Environment Minister Karl Erjavec. And that is to say that we must not say that nothing has happened on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors, not after the closing account. Yes, it is, but that same thing back then, now and in the past, didn't apply to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a final account today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the conclusion of the 13th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE ANCE OF THE AGREEMENT TO DISTRIBUTION THE INVESTIGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE CAPITAL SOCIETAL AND INVIDENTIAL SURVEILLANCE SOCIETY, D. D. D., SLOVENIAN SOCIETY, D. D. D., Blue Societies, D.D., D.D., D.D., D.D., D. O. O. O.O., AND SPECIAL COMPANIES FOR ENTERNAL COUNCILING, D.D. (Official List of RS, No. 52/13). The proposal for a decision was tabled by Mr Luka Mesec. At its second meeting, on 6 November 2014, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Decision as the working body of the mother. Since the Committee did not adopt parts of the draft decision after the discussion, the proposed consideration of the proposal for a decision at the meeting of the working body has been completed. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views and Dr. Franc Križanič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u160	Honourable President, Honourable High Council, representatives of the Government! Social Democrats are held back until state property is privatised. We believe that this should be based on a strategic reflection on the country's development priorities and broader impacts, not only on the economic environment, but in particular on the social environment. It must be carried out in a way that will enable companies to grow, increase added value, strengthen people's standards and have a favourable impact on public finances. The privatisation in which jobs are at risk is unacceptable to us. In 2013, when a list of 15 companies was adopted in the National Assembly, Slovenia faced the threat of socio-economic degradation, creating a shock doctrine based on wrong interpretations of the macroeconomic environment or macroeconomic characteristics in our country. The purpose of the intimidation was to obtain certain companies. As it can be concluded today, buyers of some companies have already been known in advance. During that period, economic forecasts were falsely negative and prospects for improvements were poor and the interest rates for borrowing state loans were overstretched. Predicts of a near - Greek script were bubbling up, and a good part of the opposition was called after three. But the response that would actually execute the caller's program of happiness for the benefit of all of us has not been. If we hang on to all of this the baggage of all the mistakes of state property management, such as political recruitment and imprecise operation, we have covered the circumstances in which the divestment decision was taken at the time. Social Democrats believe that the country can be a good business owner, so before deciding to resell, we prefer to provide conditions for more efficient governance. When we were faced with negotiations for the entry into the government of Prime Minister Mir Cerar, we paid special attention to these issues and at that time, with regard to the privatisation of companies in part or mostly state ownership, we reached an agreement that is enshrined in the coalition agreement. I quote: "Slovenia will continue the privatisation process only if it is strategically designed and will develop jobs, create new jobs and enable the growth and development of privatised companies." Furthermore, in the context of the chapter Economy in item 3, it is written, "supervised, strategically thought-out privatisation. Privatisation processes need to be continued, based on the strategy and classification of investments. It is necessary to assess from case to case, through clear selection criteria and in terms of the social economic effects of individual privatisation, for example, network effects. The key infrastructure should remain the property of the country. The purchase is intended to reduce the responsibility for restructuring companies with healthy cores and export markets. Financing of the country's strategic development projects and financing of the demographic fund to the extent foreseen by the applicable law." End of quote. Under this text, we have signed the Social Democrats. And the Social Democrats expect a consistent fulfilment of the agreed commitments. These should also apply to 15 companies on the infamous list, according to the statement. Social Democrats note the need to avoid sudden and reckless decisions on the sale of state property in the future. The starting point must become a country's capital investment management strategy to be generated through a broader public debate. Social Democrats stress that in these discussions we must open up space for new entrepreneurial models, social entrepreneurship, cooperatives, labour buyouts, and, above all, labour co-management and profit participation. In short, modern approaches to modern economic democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the United Left Group will be presented by Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the United Left, we do not defend state property because we would approve of the management of state-owned enterprises in the past, but the excess of cynicism is that it is usually those who have set up administrations, supervisory councils or even sat in them, who now declare the state to be a bad owner. It just doesn't hold. Those parties that did this were a bad manager. State property can be well managed and, therefore, we are striving to democratise it and regulate it in a way that will benefit citizens. As I have already pointed out in the transitional debate, we will lose the last lever of development policy through privatisation. In fact, Slovenia currently owns a system company and a system bank, still accumulating domestic profits, and this is why there can still be some autonomous development that took place in the years leading up to the crisis, when Slovenia, both after GDP growth and by standard of living, caught up with more developed countries and, in fact, by the quality of life and purchasing power, overrun all the southern countries of Europe. When we lose this, we will become another marginal European country in which businesses will be transformed into branches of foreign corporations, and the state of branches will have difficulty in providing prosperity to its citizens. The State of the branches is concerned about social peace so that exploitation can take place restlessly. This is also how the current development model is designed. The fiscal rule and Brussels will be an excuse for reducing social rights and for flexibilizing the labour market. Citizens were taken from the last opportunity to rebel through democratic procedures at the referendum. A Slovenian State holding company has been established in which employees are prohibited from taking part in management and which does not correspond to any authority. However, citizens and citizens are not servants and will resist. You can count on that. Moreover, so far we have not heard any real argument as to why privatisation should be good. All we have heard is that privatisation is necessary because this is what the European Union requires of us. But that's not true either. Slovenia is not a signatory to any legally binding instrument that would require us to privatise, with the exception of the possible Maribor NKBM, while all other companies currently on the list or planned for sale are not subject to any European commitment. Slovenia is simply committed to the European Union to pursue its fiscal objectives, namely that the government deficit is less than 3% and that the country's debt is less than 60% over the medium term. On the inside, however, the country has room for manoeuvre, and privatisation is not the subject of these commitments. In addition, the government of Alenka Bratušek has itself ensured that the revenue from privatisation is not directly considered to be a reduction in the budget deficit. In short, if I were to conclude, I would point out that Telekom Slovenije's sales procedures are not too far from stopping them. Non-binding offers – non-binding offers – are still being collected at this stage. The SDH administration has already shown signs of hesitation by proposing responsibility to the Government, and for the first time recognised the existence of the risks that this step entails. In addition, the results of Monday's poll in Del show that 68% of respondents oppose the privatisation of Telekom, so in the United Left of the Government and the coalition we expect them to stop on behalf of their own privatisation principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u164	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! The debate on privatisation has become increasingly ideological and it has been extremely difficult to talk rationally about privatisation lately. There is certainly no rational debate in recent times on the topic of privatisation, because if we are talking about privatisation, then a certain part of the political pool is always trying to show that it is a matter of stealing and selling state property to foreigners, that it is some kind of acceptance and occupation of Slovenian property. Okay, that could be one part of the point that some people explain. What if we understand privatisation as a search for responsible owners? Is privatisation where a particular company is bought out by workers in which they work, or is it poor privatisation? Is privatisation bad if a company in difficulty buys a responsible domestic entrepreneur and helps it grow? Is this a bad privatisation if a foreign company buys a Slovenian company, helps it grow, helps it to get more employment and in 10 years it pays more than a billion euros in money into the Slovenian state budget? Privatisation has at least two ends, negative and positive. And as responsible politicians, we need to expose both salaries, not just defend one and not draw black or just positive salaries. Of course, because we are responsible people, we must also be taught a thing about the history and past management of Slovenian state-owned companies, which is bad. The country receives €50 million annually from assets considered to be between €10 billion. It's a ridiculously low number for such a large asset. Why? Because state property is managed in a way that makes politics usurp companies and understands them as ATMs. There's no significant difference between left and right, to be very honest. Therefore, the only solution is for policy to withdraw from the economy and for state-owned enterprises to leave to those who can manage them better and who can also provide jobs and develop them further. If I use the words of my fellow Member who repeatedly says, "Remember Einstein's words: Nonsense is always doing the same things and expecting different results." It is foolish to expect Slovenian state companies to flourish and manage well, but if we have proved in more than 20 years that this is simply not possible. If there was some sincere desire for good governance of state-owned enterprises, then we would put them all under one roof and leave this management to someone outside our borders, who would be paid by effect, for efficiency and would be in the interest of these companies working well. In this way, contracts, sponsorships, legal and other advisory services are increasingly concluded in state-owned companies, leaving large amounts of money from state-owned enterprises. And this money that flows out means less for dividends, less for the state budget, this money also means less for development, because if companies don't invest in development, then they start falling behind in the long run and, of course, jobs are at risk. When we talk about privatisation, it is right to say that there are good and bad privatisations, and there are quite a few. I would certainly count Lek and the airport among good cases and Mercator and Helios among bad cases. But because there have been some bad cases in the privatisation process so far, it doesn't make sense and it's not right to throw everything in the same basket. And when we talk about privatisation, I wish that this is a synonym for us to ask ourselves how and how to find responsible owners who will provide new jobs and money for the development of this company. As a result of all this, we cannot support the decision of the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u166	Dear Presidents, distinguished guests, distinguished colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! In SMC, we will vote against the United Left proposal, i.e. against the proposal for a decision on the expiry of the Decision on consent to alienate the Republic of Slovenia's investments. There are several reasons for continuing privatisation. Facts first. The former Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by its Decision on Consent to alienate the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the CAD, the SOD, the Blue Insurance Offices, the DSU and the PDB, on 21. 6. In 2013 it established a list of 15 companies intended for disposal, from which it was concluded that the alienation procedure had already started in Adria Airways, Aero, Elan, Photona and Helios. Procedures for estrangement in other companies have not yet been initiated. As it is known, three companies have already been sold from this list, namely Helios, Photona and Aerodrome Ljubljana, and the sale of NKBM and Telekom is in the final stage. The purchase from the sale of capital investments by the Republic of Slovenia is used in accordance with the Public Finance Act to repay the country’s debts — I repeat, to repay the country’s debts — and 10% of this purchase is spent on the financing of the demographic reserve fund. And now let's get to the point, to the state of finance in the country. Due to the high level of state ownership, which limits the economy's ability to adapt, Slovenia is in the process of macroeconomic equilibrium and at the same time in the process of surplus deficit. Following the June 2013 recommendations of the EU Council, Slovenia should reduce the country's deficit to less than 3% of GDP by 2015. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to adopt a medium-term plan to achieve the objectives of public finance policy, called the Stability Programme. This document, together with the National Reform Programme, provides the basis for addressing the excessive public deficit. The National Reform Programme implements measures under three key pillars: financial, fiscal and corporate governance and privatisation pillars. One of the key measures under this programme is privatisation, which is why the previous Government has committed itself to privatising individual companies. The commitments made by the Government to the Council of the EU must be fulfilled by Slovenia in terms of achieving the target set, namely reducing the deficit of the country's sector to less than 3% of GDP. What would be the consequence of stopping the sale of the remaining companies from this list? Catastrophe! Let me count them. First of all, the fall in the credibility of Slovenia and the reduction in the rating, which is not already envying at all times, thus re-increasing the required yields and newly issued securities or, by home, significantly more costly indebtedness when and if we need it. Secondly, the potential investor compensation claims – we need to know that the costs of an individual investor from EUR million for the first phase are up to EUR 5 million in the final phase. Thirdly, the potential compensation claims of consultants and sales intermediaries. Fourth time. If the European Commission decides not to implement our commitments to reduce the excessive deficit, the EU Council can impose a fine of 0.2% of GDP on us, which would mean between 2013 and 73 million fines. Fifth. Furthermore, they can grant us a fine of 0.1% of GDP in the form of an interest-free deposit, which would be an additional 36 million in 2013. Six. And worst of all, full or partial withdrawals from the Cohesion Fund may be suspended, which would certainly cause liquidity problems and distort the budget for the Republic of Slovenia. Due to the irreparable consequences of stopping the sale of these companies, we will vote in the SMC against the proposal of the blind United Left. And that's it. First of all, I'm friends from the United Left and their botts, the presidents of some unions. The performance of the company shall in no case be affected by ownership or by the type of property. So don't fool the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u167	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u168	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Slovenian Democratic Party of the United Left proposal to the Finance Committee on the termination of the 15-state investment decision did not support it, but we will explain why. Initially, it should be clarified that the Slovenian Democratic Party did not support the proposal in the summer of 2013, when the sales package of these 15 investments was discussed. Not from this title, because it would be against privatisation, but because we were always convinced that Slovenia would need a quality strategy for managing state property before the sale process. We have estimated that ad hoc privatisation poses a type of risk that sales prices will not be maximised or that there is a risk that there will be a variety of abuses. Why have we decided not to support this decision of the United Left? For a simple reason, because we estimate that sales procedures have gone too far so that Slovenia can be allowed to fail again in order to stop privatisation in the middle of some processes or before the completion of the process. However, it should be stressed that the responsibility for the sale of these 15 companies must be assumed primarily by the parties who supported this privatisation package at the time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we appeal to the current government, we appeal to the current coalition to finally deliver a classification and a strategy for the management of state property to the National Assembly. We expect from the current government and from the current ministry that both the opposition and the general public will be invited to prepare the classification. The property, the state, is not owned by the government. The government is responsible for this. We also expect the participation of the Joint Left in this. And it is necessary to form as broad a consensus as possible in the design of the strategy. It should be stressed, however, that privatisation is not about governance, because of results, but about three key issues, namely the obligations of the Slovenian State holding company, the obligations of the Capital Society and the state of public finances. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that delaying privatisation processes, violently halting privatisation will mainly have negative implications. The negative importance in order to delay this more, more assets will eventually have to be sold and for this property we will get citizens and citizens a smaller purchase. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have never and never advocated that all assets should be sold, but that strategic enterprises should be determined, why and, of course, what we will do with strategic companies. Undoubtedly, however, at the conclusion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would say something to all those who so object to privatisation without any substantial arguments. For the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system we have paid more than 5 billion money, taxpayers' money. We did this at the end of 2013, and we will probably continue in 2015. If the banks were privatised in 2001, we are confident that this tax money, 5 billion, could be given somewhere else today. We could put him in for health care, education, social services. This should also be taken into account. Privatisation also means something else. However, we will always advocate for transparent privatisation in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which will benefit all. And it is necessary to ensure that we have the right buyers, responsible buyers, buyers who will be able to bring new knowledge, new markets and not only jobs, but also new jobs. EUR 5 billion of tax money was for banks if banks were privatised, this money could be spent on health care, education, social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u169	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u170	Dear President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have always been in the Desus Group, and we will continue to be extremely detained until the privatisation, sale, disposal, withdrawal from state-owned enterprises or whatever we call it. However, if the alternative to privatisation is additional indebtedness in the country, the transfer of financial burdens to generations to come and the cutting of social rights of citizens and citizens, then we see a less poor solution in the privatisation or disposal of property. However, according to the public finances situation, the withdrawal of the State from certain undertakings is an inevitable fact. Regrettably, the Republic of Slovenia has already started the withdrawal process in 15 companies and would be a change in its decisions today, but I do not want to go back to decisions on the moratorium on sales, which has already served the narrow political objectives of individuals or individuals. However, it is certainly not necessary to withdraw from all companies and not at all costs. Despite certain bad, unfortunately bad practices, we must not be everywhere and always too blacksighted. The review of the operations of former state-owned enterprises, now privately owned, has shown that some companies are still growing, owners are investing in development and creating new jobs, which is of course what Slovenia needs. It needs strategic capital and long-term stability. In Desus, we strongly insist on the position that privatisations must be pursued with caution, with discretion, with discretion and, above all, with transparency and responsibility. During the implementation phase, sales should be made under the case by case system and criteria should be clearly developed, while SDH must have sufficient so-called manoeuvre space for everyone to start the sale or disposal process and will not be realized at any cost. We will insist in Desus that, as soon as possible, a strategy for the disposal of state-owned enterprises and the corresponding classification should be prepared. The shortest possible time for us means no later than the end of January of next year. In doing so, we must strive to provide at least minimum so-called fuses that must prevent workers from being fired and businesses from being exhausted. Our companies are also interested in foreign ventured financial funds, not just strategic investors. In Desus, we believe that we need to maintain certain control shares and keep at least 25% and one share for strategically important companies and one share for important or more important state-owned companies. Above all, it is necessary to do everything, but absolutely everything, so that the highest price is not paid by the employees. For Desus, taking care of the employees and the long-term development of the company, of course, is also an extremely important issue of purchases. Finally, the purchase is the main economic reason for the sale. That is why, in addition to the already adopted legal commitment to the coalition agreement or coalition agreement, we have further stated that the establishment of a demographic fund, which, in addition to other system resources, will also transfer 10% of the purchase, will then cover the annual deficit of the ZPIZ, which is currently being covered directly from the state budget. Such a systemic solution seems appropriate to us because it is a matter of selling the social property created by individuals and individuals who are now either retired or are still awaiting it. Unfortunately or fortunately, the privatisation process will continue, as Slovenia must maintain a consistent attitude. In doing so, revenue will increase on the revenue side of the budget, and that is why, or also because of this expenditure side of the budget, there will be no need to implement more rigorous measures. In the end, but essentially, I assure you that Desus will keep a close eye on the processes of selling state property and will warn of possible irregularities, as well as take full responsibility both personally and materially for those responsible for carrying out these processes, of course for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u171	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a decision has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the second session of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u172	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a candidate for a minister without a resource, responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion We're moving on to decision-making. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: Mrs Alenka Smerkolj is the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 53 votes against 19. [[There were 53 votes against 19.]] I note that Mrs Alenka Smercolj is appointed Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. I congratulate the Minister of Government on her appointment and wish her a successful discharge of her duties. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u173	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u174	She wants to speak in front of the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u175	Mr President, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I sincerely thank you for your expressed trust and good wishes and for the support I have received from you in recent days. At a time when we are pressing our common path with the members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European cohesion policy, your encouragement further strengthens me in my determination to deliver on the promises I made at the time of my oath. Our goal is to work for the good of all. In the well-being of the wider community, I am convinced that Slovenia can be successful in today's dynamic situation with clear objectives, clear rules and strong networks. I sincerely believe that the development vision will be successfully written in our country as well. Together with dialogue, integration and cooperation in the search for new ideas and solutions that will lead Slovenia forward to balanced, progressive and sustainable development. I believe that this is our common goal, and I believe that we will know and be able to do it together. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u176	I thank the Minister for her words. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. That is why we can vote. We're starting the vote. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Finance Balance, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 19. 11. 2014, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 55. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. On behalf of the SDS Group, he shall have an explanation for the vote of the Magi. Marco Pogačnika.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u177	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Slovenian Democratic Party will not support amendments and additions to the Public Finance Balance Act. We will not support it solely because the Government of Mira Cerar added it in a non-hygienic manner, amended Article 199 of the Public Finance Act. This will give Slovenia the first new tax burden for 2015 under the control of the Government of Mira Cerar. We regret that we will have to vote in this way and that we will not be able to support the purpose of this amendment and the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act when it comes to the constitutional assessment of a provision, but it should be stressed that this Article could also be considered in the consideration of the tax burden package you are probably preparing for 2015. We point out that we regret this matter. The only reason why we will not support this change and supplement is because the Government of Mira Cerar keeps or expands the Public Finance Act and thus introduces the first tax burden for 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u178	Are there any other explanations from the parliamentary groups? Yeah. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia, Christian Democrats cannot support the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act. In our debates, in our views, we have said that we are disappointed that a new burden is being introduced for 2015, which is an income class with a rate of 50%. This is not a contribution to improving the business environment and therefore we are concerned about what will happen in a few months with highly qualified people in Slovenia who are certainly looking for their careers, their stay here at home in Slovenia, but some will certainly pack suitcases and go abroad. We are also afraid that some companies will do so, which have already clearly articulated their intention and are actually already doing so because the business environment is not encouraging enough for us. While we believe that the concern of this government is also the revenue side of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. But not like that, dear colleagues. In a different way. That even on the expenditure side with rationalisation, with greater efficiency, and I think we could make 16 million savings without much difficulty. Now we are going from this 16 million, as far as the government's projection is concerned, to those who are perspectives, which are motors and drivers of economic and social development. These are just some of the reasons why we cannot support the novels of the Public Finance Balance Act in the New Slovenia Group, although there are at least two solutions, which are good. But the one I was talking about is problematic, so our voice will be against this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u180	The explanation of vote by the United Left Group shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u181	Dear President, the House of Honor, thank you for your word! In the United Left, as I said at the outset, we are not pleasantly surprised by the fact that the government is wearing this unfortunate ZUJF, rather than gradually abolishing it and regulating the regional laws. But we will not vote against it for two reasons. The first reason is that this is to comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling, but the second reason is that, in any case, there is one positive thing here, namely that the ZUJF package includes an extension of the 50 % rate of income for 2015 for revenues above EUR 70 000, which we welcome in the United Left, although we consider the measure to be too modest, because we are confident that the burden of the crisis on society needs to be spread evenly, and that they should not be paid only by the poorest and middle classes as it has been before, but that progress at the top of the income scale needs to be substantially exacerbated and properly burdened with the richest, that these parts of the population will also contribute to the resolution of this crisis. For these reasons, we will be held in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u182	Any other parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Then I open a list of reasons for my own opinion. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will not support this proposal for the introduction of a 50% tax rate in the Public Finance Balance Act for the reason that there is a completely unsystematic introduction of additional taxation because this is contrary to what the Minister of Finance has said when he said that they will be more attractive, more innovative in the future, because in fact this was an extraordinary measure in 2013 and 2014 also due to certain exceptional circumstances in that period, today these extraordinary situations are no longer, at least so provided by the Finance Minister, also by the Prime Minister and finally promised by the Government of Mir Cerar and by the Prime Minister himself that there will be no additional taxation. Here's another word, among other things, this one, which is why I think that such a measure is completely, for the first time, unproductive, for the second time, probably directed at itself, is non-systematic, and in this way we will not even do anything good for the country, let alone for citizens and citizens. I will therefore vote against this. In doing so, I would also like to point out another point, namely that a constitutional decision is being used to introduce a new tax. I think this is inappropriate, and I do not think that this is in line with the political and moral standards that Miro Cerar promised in his election.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u184	Explanation of the voice by magi. Branca Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u185	Look, several American presidents have been chosen with the No more taxes password, no new taxes. Mr Cerar was also elected with the same promise if you carefully examine the pro-election words of his client and him personally. Turns out now you should say no more untruths. And I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u186	Explanation of the vote by Mr Marjan Dolinsk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u187	Dearly beloved, this morning we have heard enough explanations in support of these changes and will personally support these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u188	Explanation of the vote by Mr Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u189	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Personally, I will not support the bill to balance public finances. One of the basic elements of this law is that we will further reduce our competitiveness in Slovenia. I told you before, go to Slovenian economists, entrepreneurs, and you will see what they want. They want tax relief in the first place, and we are doing the opposite with this bill. The best ones, the most penetrating ones, we will continue to hold on to our necks as productive as possible. Young capable men, engineers, are going abroad. That's the wrong policy. You know, tax policy has to be, I repeat, also stimulating. Your government is doing exactly the opposite. By extending the 50% tax rate for another year, he is making a big mistake, because young people will have more reason not to work in Slovenia, so they will not stay here, but will go to other European Union countries where tax burdens are much lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u190	Is there any other explanation for the voice? If not, we can vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 23. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 7th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote by the parliamentary group. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote by the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me say that the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will support this amendment of the Value Added Tax Act. We regret, however, that this spring the government is ignoring the adoption of two tax novels, namely novels, which have improved the tax environment for taxpayers. Let me remind you that in the previous composition of the National Assembly, we have all put together as many votes as possible to amend the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons and the Law on Income and allow entrepreneurs, the small economy, to decide on the flat-rate payment of corporate tax. At that time, in May, I thought we had also written to the then government of Alenka Bratušek and invited her because it was her responsibility to open the question to the European Commission to raise the threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system with the current 50,000 to 100,000, which is also, of course, the threshold for new flat-rate taxation. Obviously, the previous government, not even the present government, did not realize this letter, perhaps it was too little time or whatever, which means summa summarum, that the adoption of the tax novels would not work, as we all wanted in the National Assembly at that time. We therefore regret that the government has ignored two novels of tax laws, including our letter, and in this way the tax novels will not have the effect that everyone would like to have. This is another proof that there is no listening to the improvement of the business environment in Slovenia. That's a fact. Nevertheless, in view of the novelties, in view of the changes that the current amendment to the Value Added Tax Act brings, the New Slovenia Members will support the novel, and we expect the Government to take these demands into account and not to continue ignoring the good ideas that come from the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u192	Any other explanation for the voice? If not, then we can vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the 2013 Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the 2013 Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia. The explanation of vote by the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In 2013, the Court of Auditors found that the Government had violated 34 regulations — 34 laws, 34 regulations, rules adopted by the Government, adopted by the National Assembly or adopted by ministers. In fact, this means that the Government has not acted in accordance with those rules which it itself has proposed or adopted. That's why the final bill is questioned. It is questionable not only in terms of economy, economy and so on, but also whether this budget acted in accordance with the legislation. The Court of Auditors notes that no and the Court of Auditors also notes that violations of the law are repeated year after year. This means that the Government simply ignores the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors is an institution with the authority that can only warn not only the Government but also the National Assembly that there is something wrong with the functioning of the budget. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes that the National Assembly not give a positive assessment of this final account, but at the same time instructs the Government to correct the mistakes it has made, the illegality it has done in 2013, even further. According to the Slovenian acquis, only the National Assembly can order this. No one else. The Court of Auditors doesn't have that option either. It may require the responsibility of a single minister, it may require the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Government, but it cannot be ordered by the Government. Only the National Assembly can do that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not give a positive assessment of the final account and at the same time propose to suspend the actual illegal operation of the Government, as the Court of Auditors also notes, to start again and to correct the errors that have also been accumulated for many years. But one day it has to be done. That is why we will not support this final account in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u194	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has an explanation of the vote by the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u195	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The final budget account for 2013 has basically two characteristics. The first main feature is that we have faced the fact that the public deficit has increased by 1.3 percentage points to 4.4%. Another very important feature that will be in the eyes is that the Court of Auditors has given its opinion with reservation. The Court of Auditors also gave its opinion with reservation on the basis, inter alia, of the fact that the guarantee for a loan for the construction of the sixth block of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. Here, let me mention here that the political party of Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats – was the only political party that fully opposed the said guarantee and given the latest information and according to the latest criminal charges and investigations, it seems that we were still right. What can happen at the end? Due to poorly secured loans in the event of the construction of the sixth block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj, it can happen that we will be taxpayers again who will save the estate investment. Ladies and gentlemen, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will not contribute to the adoption of the 2013 Final Account. The Court of Auditors drew attention to certain errors that have taken place by the Ministry of Finance for many years, but at the same time pointed out that the Ministry of Finance does not have sufficient wisdom or hearing to correct those errors. It's about irresponsibility. However, the final account is in fact only a knowledge of the facts, and I would like the final budget account for 2014 to be adopted next year with much greater optimism and without the Court of Auditors' opinions, which would be negative or subject to reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u196	On behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. In opening, let me explain that in the SMC Group we will support the 2013 Final Account proposal. In the presentation that we have had before, we have also pointed out some shortcomings, but at the same time we believe or trust our government that the words that we have placed on their hearts will be taken into account in further action. In addition, we have also been informed, or since before, of certain measures that could be passed, of what the Court of Auditors can do in certain cases. The case mentioned earlier by Desus was also mentioned when the minister had to resign. So I think that the measures here are possible, different, in a different way, and our approach is somehow reversed in a way that we are trying to work as constructively as possible in these matters and I believe that whenever necessary, the government may also be working on our parliamentary group and on a team that here I think is working very well and professionally for possible guidance and further suggestions on how this area can be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u198	Any other explanation for the voice? If there is no more explanation of vote, we shall proceed to the vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 18. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. The explanation of vote by the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State! The government accepts and has adopted and today we accept the 2014 budget rebalancing in a state that is not in accordance with the Constitution. The government, neither the previous nor the current one, has prepared a proposal for a fiscal rule law that would provide the framework laid down in the Constitution on public finances. This, of course, means that the actual state of public finances is unconstitutional. We have therefore proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the law on the implementation of the fiscal rule be dealt with in the National Assembly. In these frameworks, the 2014 budget rebalance is also being adopted today, which shows that the basic budget was flawed, as we have already pointed out, in the same way as taxation, excise policy is being mismanaged, resulting in a loss of spending of 45 million. It is also clear that income is much lower than planned. In addition, the deficits are also on European funds, and this shows the inefficiency of drawing on European funds. In other words, the budget deficit in public finances is increasing by 197 million and on this basis there is also a deficit through the Maastricht criteria, and it is not in line with what we have actually committed ourselves to doing. Moreover, it is also clear from the balance itself that there is an increase in the country's indebtedness, mainly at the expense of future generations. However, nowhere is there really any certainty that these funds will actually go for productive purposes and will not actually go into consumption alone. We do not have an orderly privatisation, if you want, we do not have a strategy in this area, we do not have measures to increase Slovenian competitiveness, so this budget balance on the one hand is such that it increases debts and on the other hand increases the deficit itself. For these reasons, we will not support the Rebalance in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u200	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote by the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We have already stated in our position that the Minister of Finance Dr. Marble acted wisely when he decided to rebalance the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. This is a budget on which almost exactly one year ago was the confidant of a previous government. At that time we Members of New Slovenia said that it was unrealistic, that it was just a list of wishes, and today, with the help of Minister Dr. Marble, we were able to prove that we were right. We'd be glad we weren't right. On the revenue side, the hit is almost black, although the revenue could be higher due to better excise policy, due to the optimal use of European funds and so on. But we've spent too much, ladies and gentlemen. Why is that? For investments, for new jobs? The answer is no. The fact that the deficit has increased by 200 million euros is of great concern to us. And it is perfectly logical that if we did not support the budget then a year ago, we cannot simply accept that our deficit is increasing year after year. Dear colleagues, this will have to be covered. And only this increase, this share of 200 million for 2 million Slovenes and Slovenes, can each figure out how much it comes down to. This will have to be covered. And it is perfectly logical that the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 will not be supported. Nor is it because it is the custom or the practice and risk that the following budgets, in this case the 2015 budget, are always somehow based on the budgets or the rebalancing of the previous year. So this is a very bad base for the 2015 budget. I hope it's not a foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u202	The explanation of vote by the United Left Group shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u203	Dear President, the House of Honor! Nor will we support the United Left of the proposal or the budget rebalancing for two reasons. The first reason is to understand it similarly, as said several times by colleague Joseph Horvat of NSI, as some dry exercise for next year's budget. And in this dry exercise, there are mainly two trends of concern. The first is that, despite the new government, which has come with the promise of a new policy, the achievement of fiscal goals is still based, for the first time, on cutting social transfers, for example, which will reduce unemployment benefits by one fifth, at a time when unemployment is still, despite a slight decline this year, at one of the largest historical levels in Slovenia, and the second time because it is cut in investment. The investment spending of the country will decrease by more than EUR 100 million, which is a poor recipe for a way out of the crisis, or in this we see a forecast of a third recession in Slovenia if such measures continue. For these reasons, we will not support the budget rebalancing, but we would stress two issues that we think the government must learn from this budget. Firstly, the new 2015 budget needs to be based on realistic items, because when we read this, it was clear that it was based on very unrealistic ones. For example, one of the main items on the revenue side was the real estate tax, a tax which, at the time when the budget was adopted, was neither adopted nor was clear if it would be adopted in Parliament, nor was it clear if it would go through the Constitutional Court, but it was a budget item. This is certainly a practice that governments must not use, at least not seriously. Another issue is excise policy, which has already been pointed out several times. The lack of more than 45 million excise duties in the budget is a sign that excise policy has been wrong this year and that fossil fuel excises need to be substantially reduced in order to relieve citizens and citizens here for the first time, and for the second time, to cover most of the budget resources through a more competitive excise policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u204	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u205	Thank you. Since the representative of the United Left has just supported the reduction of excise duties, I must say that I will go out and take a look, because the last time something like this happened, there was a repainting star over Bethlehem. So as far as this balance goes, you know, that's how it is. Fixing something that is fundamentally wrong is as if someone on the Bar, in Ljubljana, because you are mostly Ljubljanans, put up a beautiful new house without foundation and after one year everything would go down and slide and come up with a genius solution, now we will give up a new distraction and a new roof, the additional mass will only cause the fall when it all collapses, even more ugly and harder to fix the consequences. Because of this, it is not possible to correct what is fundamentally wrong in this way, but it is necessary to make a whole new one. The budget should be put in place so that we can start establishing an environment that will favour entrepreneurship, which will establish conditions in Slovenia, so that Slovenia can finally become competitive throughout the European market. Slovenia deserves it. We have good entrepreneurs, only the environment is not inclined to do so, and at least the steps that can be taken as soon as possible must be taken. I will vote against her with great joy, but at the same time with the hope that the government will understand what even from the greatest left suggested to my predecessor at this time to begin to think about the relief of citizens and citizens, entrepreneurs, the establishment of entrepreneurship of a favourable environment, which is the only guarantee of prosperity and also of a long-term social state, on solid foundations, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u206	The explanation for the vote is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u207	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Notwithstanding the fact that the month of November and the fact that this budget rebalancing represents only a finding which will have no impact on the functioning of the country this year, I will not support this budget rebalancing for a number of reasons. The country's deficit is increasing by around €200 million, which means that the final account will be one billion 200 million deficits. Other reasons are that the balance of the budget clearly shows that the government's work in 2014 was catastrophic. I will not support him for the reason that this prophet clearly proves that both the former and the current government are leading an inadequate debt policy. Both the former and the current governments are leading an inadequate excise policy. Both the former and the current governments are leading an inadequate tax policy. I will also not support it because the current coalition has not supported either of the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which envisioned an increase in funds for the recovery of natural disasters that have occurred in Slovenia over the last two years. We have proposed repairs of 2 million, 3 million for natural disasters, for repair at 1.2 billion. It's sad that the coalition didn't support these amendments. At the end of the day, I would add only that, in explaining the vote by the United Left, the matter surprised me in a positive direction. The United Left is slowly enlightening on the situation as it is in Slovenia, and I support this issue that you have learned that excise duties need to be substantially reduced, which the Slovenian Democratic Party has been advocating for several years.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u208	Any other explanation for the voice? An explanation of vote, Mr Ivan Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u209	I'm sorry. It was a mistake. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u210	Luke Moon has an explanation of his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. I'm just going to explain this star over Bethlehem, Comrade Grims, in fact, why we support the reduction of excise duties. We support the lowering of excise duties in the United Left because we are in favour of lowering indirect taxes that overly burden those with lower incomes. On the other hand, we are in favour of intensifying tax progress, contributing more to the tax credits than those who are more deserving of luxuries, taxing assets to tighten the income scale, while indirect taxes such as VAT, excise duties and so on need to be reduced as they have a negative impact both on economic growth and have negative redistributive effects. In this sense, this star has appeared to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u212	Still, it would be good if you could tell us how you're going to vote. Then I don't think there's any more explanation for the voice. We are moving on to a decision on the general proposal for a budget rebalancing. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 53 votes against 27. [[53 votes against 27.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2013 We are moving to budget user 1611, Ministry of Finance. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the current budget reserve sub-programme. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 57. [[23 votes to 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2130, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 58. [[23 votes against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 58. [[There were 22 votes against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2330, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Water Management sub-programme. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u213	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose to increase the money for water management, in order to resolve the situation that is today in Slovenia with many citizens and citizens who are witnessing that their homes have been flooded, that their assets have been flooded and that they must be reimbursed as quickly as possible and that watercourses are arranged. We believe that it is necessary to increase funds already this year, because damage can be quickly assessed and, last but not least, damage claims can actually be paid quickly. We all know that Slovenia has already experienced a water catch disaster for the second time this year, that natural disasters are very large and therefore it is absolutely necessary to provide additional resources. We also believe that there is no reason why these additional funds should not be taken away from the Geodetic Authority. In fact, the Geodetic Authority no longer has the right work. The real estate tax has fallen and has been abolished by the Constitutional Court. The multiple valuation of real estate has proved ineffective and therefore we can take this money from this budgetary user. For this reason, we believe that it is imperative to provide money for the recovery of natural disasters as quickly as possible and that citizens and citizens will be reimbursed as soon as possible on their property and that they can live in safe and dry homes and houses as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u214	Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer has an explanation of the vote by the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. On Monday's parliamentary question to the President of the Government regarding the rehabilitation of flood accidents, we were assured that additional budgetary resources for the rehabilitation had already been acquired this year. Although it has not been specifically stated from which source, this has also explained your question, while also explaining why the Group of Members will vote against the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u216	Any other explanation for the voice? Please sign up. The explanation for the vote is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u217	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Of course, I will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. This amendment foresees greater funds for the remediation of natural disasters that have taken place in Slovenia. Surprisingly, these comments by the SMC, given the increased resources in the budget to remedy these natural disasters. I think that on the Committee on Finance, the Secretary of State has said otherwise that there are some funds here, but there has never been a speech, as has been said so far, about an increase. Therefore, I am convinced that without the support of the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, this increase in funds will not take place. We also take it where we find that there is probably nothing wrong with these funds by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u218	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. This year there have been quite a few elementary accidents, mentioning only the stomach, and another flood has been in between. And after none of these natural disasters, the state did not in sufficient time recover the damage caused. If the resources in the budget are sufficient, if the Government has redistributed them, I do not know why they are not regulated and paid for matters caused by the acorn or spring floods. If so, and would have maintained this claim that sufficient funds were provided, then we would not be dealing with these problems. However, if we do not provide funds for this intervention aid, this means that people who have suffered a great deal in these recent floods will be allowed to approach immediate recovery, home management and so on, then nothing will happen. When the sun comes, just as it has been for the acorn, as it has been for the previous floods, the country will forget all these things, and people will face these problems on their own. I therefore propose that you support this amendment. Let us take the first minimum step necessary for taxpayers affected by storms affected by accidents and allow things to begin to recover at all. Many have lost much, have no resources, have no resources, compensation will run slowly and the country with these 2 million additional resources can save a lot of money, but will lose nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u220	While an explanation of voice is not convincing others, it is an explanation of my own voice, but I take it for granted. The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u221	Thank you, Madam President. I opened this case yesterday, and now I would explain my vote why I will vote against it. The Secretary of State told us that there is enough money on this account, that is, I think 50 million, and so far 38 have been spent, so there is still money and we are essentially worried about whether it will be spent. We're talking about the $2 million we're going to take from the Geodetic Authority. Again, we don't know if it's justified to take them there. Madam Members say that yes, we do not know. So it's some amount that we don't even know how it's going to be spent. I am convinced that the Government is responsible and will be able to deal with the consequences of the accidents that have occurred in the past period. We've been informed that this money will leave the reserve fund. Members of the SMC received the Government's explanation and also understood. Therefore, we believe that it is unnecessary to transfer from one account to another at this time. Otherwise, the user of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the previous one, is looking at an increase of almost €80 million. I will vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u222	The explanation for the vote is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this amendment because I believe that it is imperative to remedy the damage as quickly as possible, and that all those who hesitate to issue the bills are actually encouraged to spend it. Some information has come from the Ministry of Finance from the Secretary of State that the Ministry of Defence is the one who does not issue invoices to actually remedy this. So we should probably commit the entire government here to actually starting to repair and repair the damage. Secondly, I believe that the budget can provide funds in such a way or other way and that the Prime Minister can also order funds to be redeployed from one account to another and so on. After all, almost 50% of the state budget is redistributed in one year. But no! We are for transparency, not now for transfers that the Prime Minister has received somewhere provided by the Ministry of Finance. This means that these assets are actually transferred from one item to another, in order to remedy damage and to regulate water. According to the water information, they're not fixed for us. The Ministry of Agriculture says it takes five years to do something, but it didn't. And the source is the media, if you want, even some media sometimes I look. And last time there was a case, five years nothing happens. And let us encourage the entire government to help this government to help people who have suffered natural harm.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u224	Again convincing instead of explaining our own voice, but we also accept it, for once. Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u225	Thank you, President, for your word. I myself supported the previous amendment, where we tried with the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to increase the current budget reserve by an additional EUR 3 million for intervention measures, where it is evident in the budget balance that the government of 50 million in this item left only 2.8 million euros. I will also support this amendment, where we want to increase this item by €2 million in the sub-programme Water Management. Why is it necessary for me to support this amendment? In her question to her Prime Minister, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer said: "Therefore, at the present time, this issue is also one of the highest priorities in the country. It is faced literally through the struggle for survival and existential security by affected individuals and their families." The last time they had an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and an urgent meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, members of the coalition said: "We do not need a debate at all." Today you say to the same coalition MPs, "We don't need any extra money." Apparently all those mayors who were last on the committee and all those individuals who are still facing the recovery of the consequences of the last natural disasters are not getting a dime from you, and you are happy to support that. In short, if we want to help these areas of infrastructure, space, agriculture and the environment, especially those on the ground, even in this last 12 years, support this amendment and I believe that we will spend €2 million usefully on the ground to rehabilitate the most flooded areas, the most flooded riverbeds waiting for emergency rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u226	Again convincing others. Is there any other explanation? I'm going through the list. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u227	Your Honor! Even so, the problem of this rebalancing is priority. The fact is, if you have failed to do so in any way or otherwise, then at least be solidarity. This amendment shows that solidarity is more than necessary. Today, this moment. Not tomorrow or tomorrow. That is why I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. More. I will also support him because you're proving once again that you're a little bit conflicted with each other about your own opinion. The colleague spoke about the funds provided and, on the other hand, the Secretary of State nodded. Let's go home and then maybe you can just convince us that these funds are not needed and there are enough. There aren't enough. Therefore, Your Honor, support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u228	You're on the list of those who don't fully understand the voice-explanatory institute. Again, it was a matter of persuasion. The next one is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u229	Thanks again for saying that. Of course, I will vote for the amendment, because the people who have been caught need all the help they need, and the help that comes in time is the only real help. All that's too late is just something that's too late. And look, I'm going to support this amendment also because it perfectly shows the difference between words and the actions of every government in transition left. When it comes to painting, all the government, led by the Prime Minister among the people, promises everything possible. Those are the words. However, when it is necessary to take action when it is necessary to vote in favour of increasing funds to finally prevent such disasters to the fullest extent possible, there is no action. Please state that you will vote against it. And because of this great obvious insurmountable difference between words and actions, every time the governments of transition left, there from Pahor via Bratuška to Cerar, in fact, the greatest natural damage that affects our poor Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u230	Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u231	Mr. President, thank you for saying so! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against the proposed amendment. I think this amendment is actually one of throwing sand in your eyes. Following the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, the Government must first take measures on the basis of an assessment of the situation and on the basis of proposals on how to remedy matters following natural disasters. This law further stipulates that for natural disasters occurring after September of the current year, resources shall be provided in the budget for the following year. So this amendment does not hold up the law, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u232	I guess there'll be another round of explanations of voice. I'm going through the list. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. President! I will, of course, be very pleased to support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Again, I see that we cannot agree in this House even with what is most urgent, and that is, all those who are sitting here have watched on television, on all the programs that those people who have been in the areas where the floods have suffered. And now we're negotiating here, and we're talking about not doing what's expected of us. The least we have to do is find money in the budget to help these people. I think that all those who speak in this House with a different language or in a different language are working against what we have to sit here for, and that is to solve the problems of our people in this country. If we wait for a procedure to occur in this country over and over again so that we can recover something, these people will die before we solve the problems they face in these floods. And we can't do that and we can't afford it. We all have to, we have to work and help these people, not tell them we're waiting for the government to take what procedure we can begin to solve this problem. Ask those people who live there, and you'll see what they tell you. Those who were up to half flooded houses that had destroyed furniture that didn't even have a place to sleep. And now we are here talking about whether we are going to help these people or not, or whether we are going to provide resources in the state budget to help them. God help the Parliament in which some here and some of the parties are sitting! I will gladly support this amendment because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are aware that people need to be helped. We'll do anything to make this happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u234	Micah Kordish has an explanation of his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the proposed amendment. Not because you'd be in the position that people affected by floods or watercourses don't deserve more attention and more finance. If you remember my question to the minister on Monday, I'm sure you can think of her answer. And it went very far so that at the Ministry they hardly know the cost of regulating the entire area of watercourse regulation. Therefore, no further transfer of funds to this Ministry would have any effect at this time. The Ministry's basement could have a whole small cannonball, and the Ministry would not be able to use these funds because they are currently not even at the point of large planning to be able to use these funds. I will vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u236	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will also support this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party. When I explain my voice, I'll make sure I don't talk to anyone in this room. I think it is important that I support this because in most parts of Slovenia people are in trouble. They have problems that have been encountered in multiple floods. Above all, I think we can help with this amendment at a time that is most important to people. However, we must not forget that we have a calendar winter ahead of us, and if we delay it so that we may be able to help in the coming year, it seems to me that we can forget about these floods and, above all, forget the people who have these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u238	Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it is humanely appropriate for us as politicians to understand that we are here because of citizens and citizens, and I hope that it is clear to everyone that Slovenia has experienced a natural disaster again. The least we can do as politicians is support this amendment, to at least partially help. Any help that is quick, quick, helpful, helps twice. When I look at the work of the government, the constitution or the search for certain ministers since September, and we are now at the end of the year, and we do not even have a minister for the economy, I believe that this government will not do much about the rehabilitation of natural disasters, and I believe that at least this amendment is a patch to the wound of these people. Look, as my colleague Podkoršek said earlier, these floods are not in the spring work, but they are winter ahead of us. As you know, people urgently need at least assistance in the rehabilitation, assistance in drying up these flooded buildings and also housing, and I believe that we will approach this and that you will vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party because it is normal because it is natural because we are here because of people, we are not here because of ourselves, but because of people, and we must at least be partially solidarity that at least in this way we show some compassion with these people that they will understand that they are not alone in these critical times. Therefore, once again, as I said at the outset, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u240	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u241	Thank you very much, President. I will not support the amendment for a number of reasons. One reason is that in reality, the ordinary abuse of this amendment, which seems to be very attractive, but we all know that this money, even if the amendment were accidentally adopted, would not be accepted by those who propose it in the balance. So, basically, they abused the Institute of Rebalance, which is being attacked and criticized all the time, and then they're proposing an amendment so that they can present a play today and talk about how they are for all those who have suffered the damage. Especially because they really know that this money cannot be helped because they will need significantly more, even the time dimension is the one that will not really allow it, and because the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have, as a colleague from the SDS said long ago, very clear leverage that they can do so without these amendments. I believe they will if they care about helping as a country. I won't support the amendment either because I won't support the rebalancing. Unlike my colleagues, I will stick to the rules of the game if you don't support the rebalancing which I think is pointless, because even if the rebalancing was not proposed, both the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government could make all these changes. So, of course, I think it's just a simple toy and a farce on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u242	Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u243	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor! So it doesn't happen that we don't care about people who have been affected by the floods. On the contrary. We don't care. I can say it for myself, I can say it categorically for my colleagues in Desus, and probably wider. But let's stop fooling around. The facts are as follows. Firstly, there are some funds in the budget reserve for these purposes. Secondly, by the end of the year there is little time, and you have also found this in the general part of the debate on the rebalancing that a little time by the end of the year is, but not enough that all of these funds, which you would generously like to spend together for the floods, are realized, cannot be paid in this year. We have been assured by the Ministry of Finance that resources are sufficient for this purpose, and the comprehensive recovery of this damage will continue in the following year. And I sincerely wish that a full recovery of this damage would be done and that something like this would never happen again. And maybe for the third time, if this is redistributed and the funds are not spent, all the effort and all the effort we're making here is in vain. And next year, at the end of the 2014 budget account, you will find out how badly we planned, how far the realisation is from the planned. I think that there are enough arguments, and I hope, even sufficiently explained why I will not support this amendment, as opposed to the entire budget rebalancing. One more time. How much I care and how much I want these people to be helped and to create such conditions, such a situation that it never happens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u244	I guess there's gonna be another round of explanation for the voice, so I'm gonna go through the list. Explanation of the vote, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u245	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will support this amendment myself, because those who have experienced natural disasters know that every euro comes in handy at a given time. I cannot understand some of the debates and transfers of some Members, how this is all without need and everything will be settled. Nothing will be settled if we do not set up certain means for such rehabilitation. And those who do not realize that funds must be available as soon as possible in order for certain things to be settled are doing themselves and Parliament a very bad service. I will support this amendment, because every euro that comes into the field in real time helps. Whoever has the chance to experience certain natural disasters will know what I'm talking about. I wouldn't have picked up if there wasn't so much talk about how we're doing some propaganda stuff. And don't talk about not being able to fix certain things in the last month. You obviously did not listen to the mayors who were in Parliament who were talking about the most urgent means they needed to establish a certain infrastructure for access to individual homes and so on. If the state can't spend money, let's give it to local communities, because they're also part of this country. And every euro comes in handy, I'm telling you again. I absolutely support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u246	Explanation of the vote, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u247	Your Honor! I know very well that with money we do not save the flood, and with money we will not save the flood in the future. The floods will be resolved through a systematic and professional approach. We're all aware of that. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party intervenes backwards for the damage already done from the flood area. As I said, I do not agree that this practice is in the future, because such a problem must be solved in a different way. We are now in a troubled state, and I think that it is a month and a half or a month still time to somehow select those who have actually suffered the greatest damage and give them this minimum part of the means, because the damage in certain segments of the flood has been great and some are really in need of this assistance. I will support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u248	Mrs Iva Dimic has an explanation of her vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u249	Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact that the country has forgotten us and that people feel alone in the floods in Cerkniška, in the valley of Los Vale and in the mountain field is a fact. We had a case of greed when Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek arrived, we had a case ten days ago when the Prime Minister, the President of the State, came, you know, and people ask me, "And what are they going to do, they came to look at us, and it's none of that?" And the fact that budgetary resources are falling and that they cannot be spent, we in our village are by the bridge and by the road, if this money were to be built, I am convinced that this solution can be made by the end of the year, that it does not require no building permits and I do not know what to say, so do not say that these funds cannot be spent by the end of the year. In addition, they are also in the Los Valley by the bridge, and part of the mountain field could be cleaned. I support the SDS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u250	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We are voting on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Water Management. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 57. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Waste Water Management sub-programme. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenka has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u251	Thank you for your word, President. We will support this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will support it for this reason because we want to provide minimum funding for the launch of 11 environmental projects. It's been exposed several times, and so be it now. It is 11 environmental water supply projects and wastewater treatment projects. The projects are prepared by 34 municipalities and have all the necessary permits to start, and they do not have only co-financing decisions. The government, however, ordered them to start the projects this year at their own expense, which means that many municipalities already had the costs of carrying out individual projects this year. With regard to the supply of drinking water to citizens and citizens, these are projects that need to be carried out, regardless of whether they will be financed by European funds or by funds from local or state budgets. So we want to help them in this way, and also to enable citizens and citizens to get healthy drinking water as soon as possible. The proposal to take the funds from the courts and the prosecutions is for this purpose because they do not achieve the desired efficiency and results, on the other hand, these institutions have already received a number of redistributed funds this year, so that we believe that these 3.5 million municipalities would benefit 34 municipalities, and this year could start with these 11 environmental projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u252	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm going through the list. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment. It seems unacceptable to me that for two years we have been moving these wishes of mayors and municipalities after the National Assembly. Already in the mandate of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, we have held meetings of the Committee and the National Assembly, we have repeated these matters in this mandate, and I regret that there have not been even minimal steps taken in this area. The government should provide a 15% equity share of 240 million in these projects, about 36 million, and the VAT refund alone is 22%. This is said to mean that the government would make half of the money invested as a net effect by triggering these projects. And this office, bureaucracy doesn't provide that. And I'm surprised that on the other hand, he's so squeezed and raised taxes. The effect of this VAT is higher than the additional taxation of the highest income class. The effect of cash was higher, with the government or the state budget still receiving such or other contributions, income and so on. I will support this amendment because there is something concrete to be done in this area, because neither Minister of the Jews in the previous government nor ministers in the current government nor ministers without the former and current government's resources and so on. Something concrete must be done, funds must be provided and projects supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u254	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Waste Water Management sub-programme. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 58. [[The vote was 19 to 58.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to budget user 2430, Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u255	Yes, thank you very much. In view of the fact that we have already discussed nature's concerns, the Slovenian Democratic Party has also tabled an amendment to the resolution of the acorn. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to provide an additional EUR 1 million on rail infrastructure in order to eliminate the recovery of greed. We know when we had a natural disaster with our acorns, and as evidenced by the actual state, the recovery of this and the removal of the damage so far has not been done for a variety of reasons and also because, according to our information, some money is missing from the railway infrastructure. It is also ensured that this money can be used this year, so we propose to provide 1 million euros to remedy the damage that occurred a few months ago. Here I would like to say that all those who speak here, how quickly all of this is being repaired, are not being cured quickly, as the water is not being watered, even now the acorn has not been cured. We believe that with this amendment and with these additional means, we will speed up these processes and that there will actually be an end to this damage. This is why we will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u256	Is there any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour, 57 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2611, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Family Receipts and Parental Refunds. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 58. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 23. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that a specific part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 24. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the budget rebalancing proposal. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft budget rebalancing, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 162 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the proposal for a budget rebalancing is coordinated with respect to revenue and expenditure and in part. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the 2014 draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 22. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the 2014 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, following an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 18. 11. 2013 published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. The explanation of vote by the SDS delegation shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled amendments which are mainly aimed at improving the efficiency of the functioning of the state administration, the state administration, in particular in all the procedures necessary to draw on European funds, which are also necessary in order to actually obtain agreement on the use of individual funds. This would increase the efficiency of the state administration, reduce administration in some way, and also ensure that state budget resources are managed more efficiently, managed and that all procedures run faster and without administrative obstacles. In fact, all the amendments apply to this, so I'm giving an explanation here for all three.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u258	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We will then decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 58. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6a. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 57. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6b. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 57. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the proposal for a law: for the second reading, the proposed amendments have not been adopted; we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. The explanation of vote by the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Budget Implementation Act is always a law that actually follows the budget and also introduces certain provisions that are not visible from the budget or provisions that have failed to be incorporated into other laws. The current Law on the Implementation of the Budget also provides that the State of Slovenia may be in charge in 2014 of 5 billion 900 and several more million. In the budget, this amount amounted to 4 billion 900 million and something else. It's a billion and 50 million. Ladies and gentlemen, with the current public debt of the Republic of Slovenia, an additional commitment or confirmation of an additional obligation is irresponsible, eloquently said. I think it's harmful, too. Especially since there's 3 billion 400 in the treasury account. And especially since it has been said that for security, in order not to be said by foreign investors or financiers that the state is bankrupt, it is sufficient that the state in the account has the amount to pay off the principal for one year, which is to be a billion, 900 million or 2 billion, 253 million. I have two different data, one from the Secretary of State, and the other is written in the reply of the Minister of Finance to the question. However, given the three billion 400, both amounts are covered, and it is in fact inappropriate, and it is harmful that the National Assembly today confirms the additional responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia. Who will pay the interest we will pay in 2015 close to a billion? In 2016 we will only pay close to a billion interest and 4 billion 400 already on the basis of current data we will pay off debts and interest in 2016. I think that this is irresponsible, unethical, immoral to future generations, grandchildren and sons, as I think the Minister of Finance once said. But we still come to the point that something is a word, and another is an act. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you move from words to actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u260	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote by the Ambassador of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u261	Thank you, Mr. President. Otherwise, we have already announced in our position that the novels of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 will not be supported. Dear colleagues and colleagues! By pressing the "yes" button, we are sort of opening a green light for a further one billion euro debt. This means, by pressing the 'yes' button that happens in a second, we will burden every citizen, every citizen of this country for 500 euros. You press 500 euros. By already each backpack has about 14,15 000 heavy, euro of course. These actions are very difficult, and decisions in this high congregation are difficult. Is there really no other way? I believe that this government has taken on a state that is dramatic, which is very serious, that this government has only had full powers for 60 days. I believe all this. But we didn't get some assurances from the government that she was trying to do everything, but really everything that we didn't owe ourselves for a new billion, so we wouldn't burden each of the 2 million as much as we are, for 500 euros. Members of New Slovenia will not do so, so we will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u262	I will not intervene in explaining the votes of the parliamentary groups, even if they are convincing. Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 22. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is on questions of Members and Members In accordance with the proposal of Mr Tanka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar, to the question of Mr Tanka's mission regarding human resources policy. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of the vote by the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I have made a request for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government or requested it because the President of the Government has not answered the question I have asked. The fact remains that, during the pre-election period, certain ethical and other standards have been set for individual officials and other citizens appointed to certain functions, and there is a commitment to zero tolerance to all deviant social phenomena, particularly to the emergence of clientism, corruption and non-compliance with the rule of law. The fact is that the Government of Mira Cerar has replaced quite a few officials, especially in important positions recently, which have not even been marked by a lack of respect for the rule of law, which has not read or been unethical in their work. For one of these officials, she also had to provide a very large amount of compensation under the law. On the other hand, the President of the Government then recruited the most responsible, that is to say the ministerial functions of a person who did not carry out and respected the principles of the rule of law and did not respect the laws in his work. In his introduction, Comrade Shircelj said that the Court of Auditors had reported a violation of 34 acts against the Government. We know what the government is like. The same Court of Auditors has reported violations of 11 acts, 8 laws, 3 regulations and several contracts to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which has approximately 30 employees. Among other things, the KPK, led by Mr Klemenčič, commissioned and executed public contracts in 2011 of more than EUR 50 000, for which there was no basis in the deployment plan, was not in the financial plan, thereby violating both the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and the Law on Public Finance. The President of the Government then replied that only a few percent, 10, 15 % of that burden, could hang Mr Klemenčič. But that's not true. Everything I have listed is related exclusively to 2011, and in his reply, the Prime Minister has deviated from the principle of zero tolerance to negative phenomena. Since there were no relevant explanations to this question, he did not respond adequately, I propose that you support the proposal for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u264	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 53. [[20 votes to 53.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar, to the question of Mr Mesca on preparations for the privatisation of the Association for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia and the strategy for the management of state property. The explanation of vote by the United Left Group shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u265	Mr President, the House of Honor, thank you for your input. I have, for the last time, put to Mr Mir Cerar a question which concerns Dars. The situation with Darsa has already been revealed by the media, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure in cooperation with SDH and Darsa, and has already set up a working group proposing or already drawing up some privatisation plans and specific necessary changes to Slovenian legislation in the event of a privatisation scenario for Dars. In the United Left Group, we find that such action is illegal because, under Article 84 of the SDH Law, the Green Light must be given to initiate privatisation procedures or even to approve any talks on this matter by the National Assembly. The National Assembly didn't hand it over. Darsa and the highway are not on the list of 15 companies that are now in privatisation procedures, so we ask the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government who are directly responsible for abolishing this working group and calling those responsible to account. In fact, we propose this in the debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly, and if we want to cut this illegal situation, then we must vote today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u266	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote on this proposal by Mr Mesca. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 50. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Eva Irgl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The State will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič to Eve Irgl's question on human rights violations in the judiciary. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 54. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen to Ljub Žnidar's question on 11 environmental projects. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u267	Your Honor! For more than a year, discussions have been under way in the National Assembly on 11 problematic environmental projects or on how they will be implemented. I asked the Minister of Environment and Space how the Ministry sees solutions to these problematic projects run by the municipalities. From its response, there was no action or assurance that these projects would be prioritized and implemented. We have only heard, I would say, more or less formal procedures on how to use European cohesion funds, and no concrete action could be traced. I think this is a very important topic. After all, this is about spending public money or how these municipal projects will be implemented and, on the other hand, this moment of social economic damage is already being done. These investments are cost-effective, so the municipalities already suffer certain costs. Operators are also selected, paying expensive bank guarantees that are already running, even though the works are stopped, work is not being carried out, and this topic is particularly important from the point of view of poor governance of our country. I believe that this topic is important and that a public debate should be held on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u268	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote on the proposal by Ambassador Ljub Žnidar. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 54. [[17 votes against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Ambassador Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to Tomaž Lisca's question on regulating the area of emergency medical care. Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u269	President, thank you for your word. I asked the Minister of Health how the establishment of a network of emergency centres will affect the reorganisation of the emergency medical service, which group of experts will prepare this reorganisation, how they will cooperate with local communities in reorganising, when a professional document will be prepared, and what will be the negative effects for patients on the reorganisation of emergency medical care in Slovenia. However, the answers were about this way: we are thinking at some theoretical level what practice will bring, or we do not know exactly, experts are recognised experts, they will cooperate with local communities, they will prepare a professional document that will not be a rulebook and negative effects for patients. Why do I think there is an urgent need to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the reorganisation of emergency medical care? That's exactly why the minister said the rules would be adopted. The regulation will be adopted by some officials at the Ministry, who will make little decisions on the professional side, but I believe that much is also on the political side. And when the decision is made, it is likely that there will be some kind of revolution on the ground, and in the end we will listen to Members, how irresponsible we are, how we make decisions. Unfortunately, many people do not know that many political decisions are made by officials, not those at the highest peaks, i.e. directors of the Directorates, but those lower officials who then turn their political component into some professional factions, and then we Members are not responsible for the individual decisions of individual officials at the Ministry. I think that the debate is very important, because it is a matter of concern not only to us Members who are coming, I hope that from as many ends of Slovenia as possible, but also to the local communities, and especially to all those citizens and citizens who will meet with the emergency medical service in life. Once again, since this decision will be taken in the past of the National Assembly, it is only right that we also contribute decisively to the process of taking this decision by Members and Members of the National Assembly and by our opinions, both on the basis of professional decisions and political decisions, in order to reorganise emergency medical care for Slovenian citizens and citizens in addition to further concern about the reduction of health problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u270	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote on the proposal by Ambassador Tomaž Lisca. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 54. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of Mr Zvonk Laha, on cohesion funds. Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote by the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. The use of European funds is so important for the country's budget in 2015, when it is the last year when funds can still be drawn from the old financial perspective 2007-2013, that it is necessary to clarify which projects are feasible and which ones are not. We talk a lot about environmental protection projects, where they are community investors, but there is no talk of projects in the field of transport infrastructure, where the investor is a country. From the ground we hear rumors that some projects are being very poorly implemented and that the problem will be to absorb all financial resources. That is why I asked the Minister, who here answered that there is no fear that the projects are going to take place and that we will all draw on the fact that there are spare projects in the so-called overcommitment, but there is no way to believe. I therefore believe that this should be discussed here in the National Assembly, not only in full, that all the funds will indeed be exhausted next year from this financial perspective, because otherwise there will be great damage to the country and also to the state budget, in which you are likely to count on substantial European funds, even this year, but not to the extent envisaged, but the rest should be in the coming year. That is why this is a very important thing, especially for you in a position, if you are still responsible for the whole next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u272	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We will then decide on the proposal for a decision by Member Zvonk Lah. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 55. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and Space Irena Majcen to the question of the Commissioner, Mr Mahnič, concerning the regulation of watercourses. Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote by the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u273	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I asked Minister Majcnov a question regarding the regulation of watercourses. I come from the valley of Poland alone, where we had severe floods three weeks ago. The minister also looked around, and there were some promises that some help would come, although now there is nothing to be heard about. I was not satisfied with the Minister's response. I do not think that this is a topic where we can step together, that it is not a topic on which to argue, because it is not an ideological theme, but a topic when we talk about the security of citizens and citizens and their property. The Minister acknowledged that in the past there has been a lack of funds for regulating watercourses, but I am surprised that the budget of these items is falling again. For the last time, we could have read that if we wanted to have regular watercourses, we would need about 25 million euros a year, today about 7.6 million euros are earmarked for this, and, on the other hand, ARSO is building a new palace, if I may say so, for 33 million. I think that this is irresponsible in this crisis especially for citizens and citizens. When we walk through the field, the minister comes, everyone, I believe, likes to be photographed with firefighters who are our heroes who help, and then promise to say 400 thousand euros, and they build a palace for 33 million. Many studies have already been conducted in the field of watercourse regulation, many will still be, the strategy is still waiting, the minister here has said that in this area of work, but for decades we have all been talking about what we will be, what we will be like, and when we listen to the answers or see what the situation is, the person feels that those in responsible positions are acting primarily in the sense that they would not. I think that this kind of policy needs to end, even on topics where we can really do something for people, help people, and thus improve the catastrophic situation in which some people are found. If you don't believe me, I'd like to invite you to the valley of Poland, come and take a look, but I believe it's bad somewhere else. You are also from the floods, and I believe this is about citizens and citizens, because it is about their safety that you will support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u274	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can decide on the proposal for a decision by Mr Jana Mahnič. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 54. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Čuš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irene Majcen to Andrej Čuš's question on the National Housing Programme. Mr Andrej Couch has an explanation of the vote by the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u275	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, good evening! I myself have asked Mrs Majcnov's Minister of Environment and Space an oral question concerning the preparation of a national housing programme. I am in the hands of the last two draft national housing programmes, one from March 2013 and the other from early June 2014. Unfortunately, this is another story, when we talk a lot, there are many nice words that need to be resolved, that some strategic documents need to be prepared, but when something needs to be done concretely and even in practice, it is not. Unfortunately, there is so much in Slovenian politics and the national housing programme is only one of these points. In keeping with my oral question, I have drawn Mrs Majcnov's attention to the worrying trends in housing and the problems of self-reliance of young people. A few days ago, on the website of the Youth Council of Slovenia, I was able to read that in Slovenia we are at the very top of the European Union after what percentage of young people live with their parents. I must warn you that two thirds of young people between the ages of 18 and 40 live at home with their parents, and I don't think this can be very proud of us. The only worse situation is in Greece. So I asked the Minister myself whether he was planning any concrete measures or strategy that would make it easier for young people to become independent. At the final stage, we all know that young people today face unemployment or unstable forms of employment, and somehow they cannot afford credit, have no other means to afford to buy an apartment. Unfortunately, these trends have been present for a long time, and to this day nothing has happened. The problem of young people is neither left nor right, so I think it would be right for us to come together and finally do what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u276	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can decide on the proposal for a decision by Andre Couch. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 51. [[20 votes against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiša, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and Space Irena Majcen to Miha Kordiša's question on the provision of flood safety and the use of European means of flood protection. Miha Kordiš has an explanation of vote on behalf of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u277	Thank you so much for saying that. In the United Left, we asked Mrs Minister, on the anti-floating committee a few weeks ago, a question that was somehow going in this direction: the regulation of watercourses across the country, what would be the cost in particular compared to the damage that has been generated on average over the past few years as a result of the flood. If we shorten or narrow down, how quickly such an area would be brought in financially according to pure economic logic. The question was further clarified if there were any calculations or assumptions as to what positive effects such a type of public investment would have on the economy. We did not get any convincing answers or answers on that committee at all, so we asked this question again on Monday. And the same story happened again, and there was no answer. The question is very pressing, I think we have found that today, we have already found that on Monday, because a number of issues revolved around flood safety and watercourse regulation. It certainly seems to me that at the next meeting of the National Assembly, we should pay some attention in such a discussion. I suppose, I hope, that the placement of the item in question on the agenda of the next meeting would also encourage the ministry to finally clean up a little after its bureaucratic kibbutz and prepare some drafts, some purely basic calculations, how much it would already cost and what would have produced the regulation of this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u278	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can decide on the proposal for a decision by Mr Kordiš. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 51. [[The vote was 19 to 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following the proposal from Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Interior of Vesna Györkös Žnidar to Anja Bah Žibert's question on austerity measures in the police. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. We wanted to talk about the critical situation in the Slovenian police first and discuss it on the parental committee. Unfortunately, Mira Cerar's party with an argument of power made any discussion impossible and prevented. More. Even a resession was called, and it was cancelled for no real reason. Today you have the opportunity, Your Honor, to take the exam and allow us to hold this debate and to come up with solutions that will help Slovenian police officers. Your Honor! I really urge you to support this proposal for a debate also because you must be aware of the great indignation that comes from the Slovenian police. I think any additional reason for this is superfluous.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u280	Is there any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote on the proposal for a decision by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 52. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Bojan Podkrodška, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen to the question by Mr Bojana Podkódška on the difficulties in adopting municipal spatial plans. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u281	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I asked Mrs Majcen the question about the adoption of the OPN, the municipal spatial plans. Many times local communities, congregations, face difficulties in adopting these plans. The reason is the constant change in legislation, the incompleteness of spatial legislation and, above all, the long deadlines for the issue of consensus, opinions and recommendations. Since I have received the Minister's reply, I suppose, written by the Ministry's services, I believe that these employees have known this issue for years and nothing has changed in this area. That is why I call on everyone for the well-being of the development of local communities, especially economies, because we happen to have many companies leaving Slovenia and, as a result, pay taxes and create new jobs elsewhere. I am of the opinion that these problems need to be tackled intensively, not only at the Ministry of the Environment, but also at another ministry, particularly for the benefit of the development of municipalities, local communities and economies and jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u282	Is there any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then I would just like to remind myself in general when you explain your voice, be aware that you speak on behalf of the parliamentary group, and sometimes this matter needs to be duly justified, not so much in your own name. Nevertheless, we are now voting on the proposal for a decision by Mr Bojan Podkorodska. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 52. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and Space Irena Majcen to the question of Mr Krivec on the implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u283	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I asked the Minister of the Environment and Space about the implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park mainly because this law was adopted in 2010 practically with the majority in this National Assembly. However, I wanted to remind the Minister of the non-implementation of this law and also of the violations that are taking place in connection with this law. The law provided for basically, in the preamble in the first articles, to support the coordinated sustainable development of the national park area, the development of social, cultural, economic activities, the preservation of the population and the appropriate quality of life of both the inhabitants of the national park and of all life. The law also includes development incentives and provides that the use of state budget funds is equally divided between development and nature protection activities. This matter is regulated by Article 56 of this Law. I wanted to know why the law is not fully implemented in this part. A management plan has not yet been adopted, which by law should have been in place for almost two years. As I said, no part of the funding has been earmarked for development activities, as set out in Article 56. She couldn't answer me about her employment either. Developmental incentives for local communities under this Act are also not implemented. The rules on the prioritisation of incentives and many other articles of this Act, which was adopted by Members at the time in 2010, were not adopted. I therefore propose that this be discussed in the National Assembly and that it also help the Ministry to prevent further violations of the law which has been adopted and thus allow the Minister to take action in his department, since obviously all the existing environmental and spatial committees, which have been warned of these inconsistencies or violations of the law, have not produced any results. I must admit honestly that the Minister has also responded in this direction and has agreed to the violation of the law. Given that we are the legislative body that has adopted this law, I believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that the violations do not continue, so I propose that you support our proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u284	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Therefore, we can decide on the proposal for a decision by Member Daniel Krivica. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 53. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Interior of Vesna Györkös Žnidar to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question of respect for the second chapter of the Law on the organisation and work of the police. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 54. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Mrak to the question of the post of Mr Matjaž Hanžka on the status of advocate of the principles of equality. Matjaž Hanžek has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u285	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the United Left, I asked the Minister how he intended to address the problem, which has been a major problem in Slovenia for at least a decade and for which we have received two international reminders this year. The European Commission has initiated proceedings against the country for the apparent violation of EU rules on an independent body for the monitoring of equality. In September, we received the same warning from the European Commission against racism and intolerance at the Council of Europe, just like those in the United Nations. And this is one of the extremely pressing problems that not only binds itself to the right to equal access to the protection of different minorities, either national or other, but also to what we do in our House, the National Assembly, because sometimes we forget about it. In principle, I would almost say that the Minister has satisfied that she has promised to solve this problem next year, to lay down new rules for advocates of the principles of equality, but given that earlier this Minister has not done so for two years, and that this is a pressing problem that has not been resolved in Slovenia for more than 10 years, and that I believe that we are not too close to an equal way of doing it in this National Assembly, I think it is necessary to discuss it in the National Assembly. So in the United Left, we suggest you support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u286	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We will then decide on the proposal for a decision by Mr Matjaž Hanžk. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 50. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Jelka Godec, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, to Dr Anje Kopač Dark on the question of employment by Jelka Godec. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 55. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Kordiš, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, to Dr Anja Kopač Dark on the question of the question of the question of redundancies and training at home and abroad. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors United Lefti Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u287	Thank you so much for saying that. We asked questions on Monday to their secretary, and it was kind of a hurry to answer them. It has been low and has provided all measures and points on how they deal with the issue and the issue of unpaid traineeships. But then Tuesday happens. In the United Left we get in the hands of daily newspapers and on the front pages of the press conference of the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Youth Plus Union, where they call on the Government to do its work volunteering until the problems of unpaid traineeships are resolved. If this is not a good enough reason why we would like to discuss the Minister's response to the next meeting of the National Assembly, then I do not know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u288	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We will then vote on the proposal for a decision by Mr Kordiš. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 48. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivica, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić, to Daniel Krivec's question on the implementation of the law on measures to remedy the effects of greed between 30 January and 10 February 2014. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of the vote by the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u289	Thank you, Madam President. In this case, too, I wanted the Minister's reply why legislation, which is not so old, is not being implemented as of March this year. I warned him of some inconsistencies in this marriage. This law also provided in Article 1 for emergency and remedial measures to remedy the consequences of the floods during that February and March period, and the Minister could not respond to the data on these interventions. I also drew his attention to the fact that his ministry was carrying out the measures and implementation of the whole law or the supervision of the implementation of this law. I also warned him that we had not yet considered the report in the National Assembly, a report that the Government should be reporting. The Minister’s reply was that he did not know whether this report had been forwarded to the Government, which means that this law was inoperable, since Article 4 states that the basis for the recovery of direct damage and the allocation of State resources to the individual injured person is the final report on the injury assessed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for confirmation by the State Commission for the assessment of damage in accordance with the rules governing the protection against natural and other disasters. And the next line says that within 15 days the government will inform the National Assembly. The Minister does not know anything about this report, and we have not dealt with this in the National Assembly, and there is no basis for funding certain measures. This is also important from this point of view, because in the next step we will consider the budgets for the following year, because it says that the Government, on the basis of the report referred to in Article 4, paragraph 2, sets out the scope, manner and dynamics of providing additional resources to remedy the consequences of the sting in 2014. That's over, we don't know anything about it, and you're all saying that the means are enough and that no amendments are needed. And this law also says, "When preparing the draft budget for the following year, competent ministries must, within the framework of their financial plans, ensure sufficient spending rights to remedy the damage governed by this law." [[…]] I hope we understand each other. I believe that neither the Ministry nor the Government has any relevant grounds laid down by the law that we have adopted to prepare budgets for the following year, nor has it had any relevant basis if we read the law to prepare intervention measures for 2014. Therefore, the Minister also agreed that we would actually discuss this and find out whether we were adopting a law or just that [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] we are spending paper or to really speed up some of the measures that are necessary to address the consequences of natural disasters.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u290	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We will then vote on the proposal for a decision by Mr Krivec. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 53. [[18 votes to 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice, Mag. Goran Klemenčič on the question of Mr Anje Bah Žibert on concrete measures to establish the rule of law. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u291	Thank you for your word. Citizens and citizens are losing confidence in our justice system. That we have serious problems, we are also warned by international analyses. We live in a country where laws don't apply to everything the same. The holders of state institutions break the laws and nothing happens. The former KPK president violated eight laws and was rewarded with the Ministry of Justice in a mockery of the rule of law. The law violates the information officer, the State's Attorney's Office, the Council of Justice, and nothing happens. The Minister's response or response was inconclusive and, in particular, inappropriate to the function he performed. I therefore call on the National Assembly, this highest assembly, to hold a concrete debate on the rule of law that is to and must rule in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u292	Any other explanation for the voice? If not, then we shall decide on the decision of Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 54. [[The vote was 16 to 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning respect for the provisions laid down in the last paragraph of Article 8 of the Judicial Service Act. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 56. [[The vote was 16 to 56.]] I note that this decision is not adopted either. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the second meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
