ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Andrej Chus, Mr Jan Mahnic, mag. Ange Logar, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Matjaž Hanžek and Mag. Marco Pogačnik. I invited the President of the Government, Dr Miroslav Cerar, and the candidate for Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počvalška, to the proposed enlargement and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 26 November 2014, by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. We are going through the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I have proposed to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 7th extraordinary meeting be extended by the 6th item, this is the proposal for a candidate for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. You received the extension proposal by letter dated 27. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Does the President of the Government want a word as a motion for a case? No, it's just an extension, there's no substantive justification. With regard to enlargement, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? [[They don't want to.]] Then we move on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the meeting will consider this item as soon as the agenda is set. We move to a vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference, and a follow-up. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, it's an up-to-date proposal by the Minister of Economic Development and Technology. The President of the Government, Dr. Miroslav Cerar, is 26. 11. 2014 proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Zdravek Počvalska be appointed Minister for Economic Development and Technology. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Dr Miroslav Cerar, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u2	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As has been said, I propose Mr Zdravek Počvalska as the candidate for Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Mr Zdravko Restovalšek is a university graduate engineer of agriculture with rich work experience and visible results in the economy. He gained his first management experience as a member of the business group, which successfully repaired the operation of the Šmarje z Jelšah Agricultural Combine. Until 1994, he was Director of the Šmarje Agricultural Association at Jelšah and then Director of Mlekarna Celeia. In 1999 he took over the management of the Medication of the Atomic Spa, which under his leadership transformed into the Terme Olimia brand. He's still working there today. Zdravko Počvalšek is also president of the Tourist Hotel Chamber, a member of the Management Board of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, a member of the Management Board of the Association of Managers and a member of the Spirit Slovenia Council. In 2005 he received the award of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia for outstanding economic and entrepreneurial achievements, and in 2010 he became the manager of the year. In its work, it shall demonstrate the managerial and organisational abilities reflected both in the business, international and multicultural environment. Dražko Restoršek has demonstrated by his past work that he can and can manage complex systems and act in a coherent manner. I therefore have no doubt that he will successfully lead the ministry and manage to connect it with key economic players. In this way, I believe that, together with other ministers and colleagues in the Government, it will contribute to improving the economic situation and encouraging economic breakthroughs in the Republic of Slovenia. The government I run believes in the policy of integration and constructive cooperation for the good of people and the Republic of Slovenia. We are chosen to serve people and the country, and Zdravko Restoršek has already proved that he believes in these goals and is capable of achieving them. I also believe that you will support him in his efforts and that you will support Members and Members of the National Assembly in his appointment as Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u3	In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Committee on the Economy and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. You have received the opinion of the committee. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Margareti Goochek Zakoshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The President of the Government shall be the President of the National Assembly 26. 11. 2014 submitted a proposal for a Minister for Economic Development and Technology in which he proposed Mr Zdravko Počvalska as Minister. Mr Zdravko Restoršek presented himself to the members and members of the Committee on 2. 12. 2014 and answered their questions. Following the opening presentation of his career path, the proposed candidate outlined the basic principles for which he will take part: transparency, innovation, flexibility, focus on goals, positiveism, honesty and partnership. In the spirit of the latter principle, he highlighted the importance of partnership and dialogue with key stakeholders in the economy and all other resources. He listed below the objectives which he believes are important for the performance of the economy and the development of technology, namely: raising the relative competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, increasing the added value, market-competitive and socially responsible business, protecting existing jobs and, above all, creating new jobs with high added value, developing the social state and social dialogue, sustainable development, encouraging projects with high multiplier effects across the economy and society. The candidate completed his presentation by presenting the growth generators, which is with the key eight measures he believes are crucial to achieving these objectives. These are: the promotion of export and foreign direct investment, the improvement of the support environment for SMEs and craftsmen, the promotion of tourism as a sector with a high multiplier effect and a promoter of the country, the deliberate privatisation, efficient and transparent management of state assets, the systemic extension and restructuring of the business sector, the payment discipline and the fight against the grey economy, and, last but not least, the optimization of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. In the debate, a number of questions were put to the proposed candidate, which he answered in full. The Committee took note of its views and proposals for action in the specific areas that it had been exposed to. Following the final presentation of the candidate, the Committee on the Economy adopted the opinion that Mr Zdravko Počvalska's presentation as a candidate for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u6	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and others who are in the Chamber! It is true that we have to wait a little longer on behalf of the economic minister candidate, but we estimate that Mr Zdravko Restoršek, who is today as a proposal before us, is a man of such importance. The economy is crucial to the country's development plans. In his rich career, Mr Restoršek has proved to be a successful economist, for whom in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we believe that he will meet the challenges he has faced many times before. Mr Zdravko Restoršek successfully presented himself to us on Tuesday at the Committee on the Economy. His performance was convincing, confident, and professional. You can see that man is an act. The challenges, dynamics and problems of the Slovenian economy are already known to Mr Restovalsko from the first hand, so we have no doubt that he will join the work as soon as possible. We are also pleased that the candidate comes from tourism, an economic sector that is underexploited, but at the same time extremely important for the development of our country. Mr Restoršek spoke in his presentation to the Committee on the promotion of tourism. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that the quality promotion of tourism increases the number of guests and at the same time attracts foreign investors. Sometimes we forget that tourism is one of the fastest growing global economic sectors. Therefore, foreign investment in tourism can help us decisively in overcoming the economic and financial crisis that we have witnessed over the past few years. The Minister's candidate presented optimistically the objectives that we hope will be achieved as soon as possible. These include: raising relative competitiveness, top-level global competitiveness, value added growth, market-competitive and socially responsible business operations, maintaining existing and creating high-value jobs, sustainable development and promoting projects with strong multiplier effects on the economy as well as society. As his main objective, Mr Restorantsek cited an improvement in the competitiveness of the economy, as only a successful economy allows for successful social development. The candidate assessed the promotion of exports and foreign direct investment as the most important generator of economic growth. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia also agrees with the candidate that much support should be given to exports and to improving the business environment for small and, of course, medium-sized enterprises. Only in this way will our companies be able to do better, create new jobs, and at the same time we will be more interesting to foreign strategic partners or investors. In his presentation, the candidate stressed that he expected the Bank's SID to play a greater role in financing export programmes and guarantees for export transactions. The candidate is also very much in favour of promoting economic diplomacy, which we have long advocated in the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Last but not least, the candidate for the minister also convinced us in person because he said that the values that lead to work, transparency, innovation, flexibility, targeting, positiveism, honesty and partnership. All of this is advocated by us in our parliamentary group. That is why we will be happy to support Mr Zdravek Restorska as Minister of Economy and Technology. We wish him a successful job and a lot of success.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u8	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members, Honourable Others Present! Today we are still completing the last empty place in the government that will receive a new economic minister. A while ago, we expressed our expectation that the Prime Minister would offer a strong candidate for this city. We hope that's true today. The wider public devoted a positive atmosphere and a great deal of affection to the future minister. The economists welcome Mr Restovalska's appointment, but at the same time, they have high expectations and expect him to act responsibly. So do we. The economy at this point shows everything before it's an idyllic image. But today, when we finally have a name on the table after all the perceptions around the Minister of Economic Affairs, we are more optimistic about the future. The economic picture paints challenges, but at the same time great opportunities. Many good suggestions and solutions are already on the table. We believe that there are more in the sights of ideas waiting for the right moment and a competent interlocutor. That's what I believe they're getting today. Everything shows that the future minister has reached his maturity and that he will succeed in putting the repressor at the forefront. We expect him to enjoy the necessary support in the government, which will enable him to face the challenges ahead successfully. Overindebted economy, credit crunch, need for restructuring, reduction of the grey economy, payment non-discipline – these are problems facing the Slovenian economy, which unfortunately do not have uniform and easy solutions. Social Democrats are estimated to be sovereign when presenting their views, visions and competences on the labour market. Also close to us is his view of privatisation and management of state property. We believe that with its principle, experience and clear vision, it will be able to take a step that will not only mean ensuring stable economic growth but will also protect domestic production and our worker. Zdravko Restoršek has our support and enjoys our trust. It also has our commitment to be a constructive partner in our efforts for the good of our economy and our country. We wish him success.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u9	The text is given by the United Left Group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, I welcome young visitors, the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Let's ask ourselves one question about the introduction. What is the economy based on? The economy, of course, is based on work. The work is based on workers and workers, exes and currents. Economic development is based on – forget that this is the title of this ministry, economic development and technology – overvalues if you are Marxist or Marxist, or added value to an employee if you are not. Where is this added value created? You will not believe the added value is generated in Slovenia largely at the third development axis. What did we hear in Mr. Restoring's presentation? I will quote: The worker is too expensive in relation to state companies, fewer workers will work more, Privatisation should continue, but no price on the leaves. We have also heard an old story of lying to the real versus the public sector. What haven't we heard? Almost nothing about workers and workers as operators of economic and economic development, nothing about economic democracy and social entrepreneurship and very little about society, given the fact that the gentleman has worked for quite some time in cooperatives. We have not heard anything about the employment of young people, nothing substantive about economic policy. Not even about tourism, but about smart specialization strategy and technological development. Or should I say a little domestically: What are we going to do, do in this Slovenian economy, as long as the Slovenian economy remains? Again we listened to an old story, a distorted mantra about a real versus the public sector. Let's just ask ourselves what we transferred to a bad bank. I'm going to quote my colleague from the SMC: the philosophy of the real sector. The fact is, for 20 years, we were ruled by a rainbow coalition composed of old politicians and politicians, economists, financiers and lawyers. What did the lawyers do? They ensured that what the people called theft was legal, if not legitimate. Furthermore, in the United Left we can agree that the problem is public procurement; there are about 4 billion of them. This is a place to share private interests in the public sector, and this is that space, Mr Cerar, for saving. Some computer companies manage and cooperate with the public sector. Eight, nine oligopolists are in charge of medical bills, so I don't go to energy at all, because you've divided one lobby more SDS, the other more SDS, and so on. These are problems, but not even now the shameless wages of nurses, firefighters, police, non-academic work, higher education, and I could now count another half hour. From what the candidate for minister has said or more, from what he has said or has not said, it is more than clear that it is a matter of continuing privatisation in the form of a sale and some kind of ostrich position, which is predominantly established by the network around the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I would even hope that many of them have never worked in this "real sector". In short, this and such policies and such a candidate, the United Left Group, of course, cannot and will not support. Since I have little time left, one methodological note below the line. We always have someone who draws one index and says yes, after this index Slovenia Then someone draws another index. Please also read the methodology behind these indices, and let us be intellectual in Slovenia and triangulate several such indices. Thank you for your word. As I said before, the United Left cannot support such policies that block development on the workers' shoulders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u11	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u12	Dear President, Honourable President of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The candidate for Minister Zdravko Restoršek is a candidate for the real sector, another candidate who knows exactly what needs to be done. Statements such as Stop New Taxes, For Less Bureaucratations, For a more open economy are exactly the same statements as we have written in the economic programme of Christian Democrats. And these are definitely the Minister's statements, which have impressed our Christian Democrats as well, and we are therefore pleased with his performance. Of course, this direction urgently requires or is necessary as a result of this improvement in the business environment, and the real improvement of the business environment is new jobs, and this is also a greater inflow to the budget. But the key to all this and today's election of the new minister is whether the minister can handle it. As I said, there is another candidate who knows exactly what needs to be done in this country, and the other is whether he will be able to do so. One of his predecessors, Mr Dragonja, was also a candidate from the real sector, who knew very precisely what to do and simply did not have this power. If we are honest, then they are formally, on paper, the powers of the Minister of Economy are relatively limited to tourism, the granting of subsidies and some small details. That is why we, the Christian Democrats of the Economic Minister, understand mainly as the ambassador of the economy, especially as a man sitting at the same table in government rooms with all the other ministers and strongly and actively defending the interests of the economy. And just defending the interest of the economy we have missed in these last days when it came to an agreement with the unions when it came to forecasting new duties. We hope and wish that the Minister of Finance in Mr Restoration will receive an additional ally. Mr Restovalšek certainly had clear views in his presentation talks on how and how we should improve the business environment in Slovenia. I hope that with this determination, which he has demonstrated in his current business path, he will also be able to convince many of his colleagues in the government ranks and that there will be no isolated case and a lone ambassador of the Slovenian economy. But we are concerned about the last agreement of the Government and trade unions, which goes in some way away from the idea and vision that Mr. Restorationšek advocated at the presentation itself. Because the burden of the public sector has passed on to the economy. It is said that the economy is to be burdened with an additional EUR 100 million, which our economy simply will not carry, even less digestion. We wanted the approach of negotiations with the public sector to be completely different, not the approach that all stakeholders within the public sector are the same – but there are important differences between groups within the public sector, on the one hand between police and nurses, and on the other hand between teachers and doctors who have much better conditions and situations than the other group – and that this difference within the public sector would also be reflected in the negotiations, but of course we have not seen it. The minister said stop with the new taxes. A new tax on sweet drinks is forecast. We are confident that this tax will not in any way contribute to the healthier lives of our young people, but will contribute more to the loss of some important jobs in this industry. That is why we strongly want and hope that Mr Restorationšek will show his teeth already in this first law and will actually say Stop to the new taxes. Mrs. Zdravka Rest is definitely waiting for hard work. Christian Democrats hope that they will not fail and that they will succeed with Christian democratic logic, which is that we must first create [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Of course, our Group of Members, as has been said, will support Mr Restoration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u13	The word is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, for which Mr. Peter Wilfan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and distinguished guests! Mr Zdravko Restoršek enters Slovenian politics with the most desirable period, with the history of a successful manager in the economy and without the dark foxes, to which we are all extremely sensitive in this country for known reasons. Although there are also traces of the management takeover of the company he led in his business path, in this case there were no public financial consequences in this regard, and otherwise, as it now shows in this regard, everything is as it should be. The President of the Government has obviously made a good decision this time, which is also reflected in the broad support for the hearing before the Committee on the Economy. Dear Mr Restoration, first of all, I would like to welcome you. It is true that you are not yet here with us in this Chamber, but I am sure that you are listening to us very carefully in this House. But you will certainly be in this Chamber often in the future, because you are taking over one of the hottest jobs in the country, you are becoming Minister of Economy. Among your main objectives, you highlighted the improvement of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and the consequent increase in added value and new jobs. You highlighted the promotion of exports and foreign direct investment, including by establishing a single point where potential investors can arrange everything in one place. You are predicting a greater role of the Bank's SID in financing export programmes and guarantees for export transactions and predicting more active economic diplomacy. You also talked about improving the support environment for small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen, reducing labour burdens and public procurement reforms by introducing personal responsibility. You also say that you support the continuation of privatisation, which should be carried out for the benefit of businesses and wider society. All we can do is pin it on you. Above all, it is up to you, the government and, lastly, the opposition that all of this is not just a list of wishes. You predict that your work will be measured by improving the global competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Not just you, we'll all measure your work with this criterion, and today you're on the start list, time zero is today. The importance of corporate deleveraging is particularly highlighted in the Alliance. Despite the overburdened Slovenian economy, it is not possible to obtain bank support for development. This is an exceptional problem for both businesses and banks and society as a whole, as the rehabilitation of banks without this second step will make no sense. Urgent action is essential, and we expect you to take concrete action in the near future. And the second topic I would like to highlight is the independence of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, which you announced at the hearing before the Committee. As you know, the Alliance has prepared and has already introduced three laws to achieve the same goal. These are novels of the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship, the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises and the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism. Your attitude towards the issue of government support for these novels will be the lactose paper of honesty of your predictions of de-de-irocratisation of procedures. You have two options on the table. The first is that you support the novelties of laws and make the WTO your own, which is what you are working towards. The second option is to ease under official pressure and laws not to support empty excuses, such as the need for quantitative and qualitative analysis of the situation so that problems are not solved ad hoc, but that systemic solutions, inter-resort coordination are needed and all other excuses for non-action remain. I see you as a man of efficiency, and I hope that as such you are aware of the consequences of your decision. Practically in the first step of the ministry, you can return your independence to the Slovenian Tourist Organisation by means of the novels already submitted, which of course can be completed together, but you can leave this to the various offices and their mills. In the hearing you announced, among other things, the optimisation of the functioning of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There is a concrete example before you that you can make a prediction. Very soon you will realise that governance is still a real sector, which has a lot in common with the economy, while at the same time it varies significantly. You bet on Darwin and his thought that those who will adapt as quickly as possible to change will survive. Don't get too adaptable, but change things for the better. Dear Mr. Restoršek, your candidacy has been supported by the Alliance on the committee. In the future, you will have its active support for the challenging challenges ahead of you and all of us in the area of the economy, which is our first place. On the part of our parliamentary group, you will not receive immature or balinian opposition bias, opposition to opposition and related media seconds, because this relationship does not deserve the economy and not anyone else. As with all the appointments to the government so far, we will also abstain as an opposition party this time. The appointment of ministers is, in our opinion, an act when the ruling coalition checks the stability of its parliamentary majority. Slovenia needs a stable government, and this stable majority in the National Assembly. It is also right to build it with each vote on key human resources decisions. The expectations for you are very high. We expect you to be a match for them. You probably won't have much from December, but you're probably already used to it as a tourist worker. However, I hope that he will have a lot of Slovenian tourism. We wish you a success.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u15	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members, we believe that the objectives set by the candidate for economic minister are largely appropriate and acceptable. In the circumstances under which we have been wandering for several years, the high competitiveness of the economy is certainly a condition that can ensure sustained, sustained economic growth. We also welcome the desire to create high value-added jobs, and we believe that this will only be possible with a certain degree of reform of the entire education system. So this means that this goal is a little more far-reaching and long-term. We do not doubt the quality of the candidate in the field of tourism, so we expect that rapid and successful substantive changes will be possible. In some regions and centres tourism is already at a high, European level of competition, but other areas in the country will also need to be awakened and encouraged. For there are also many in this area, i.e. in the field of tourism, we are facing a very poor situation. The candidate correctly assesses the current economic situation in terms of the burden on the economy as a whole and its entities. We believe that by means of a professional and calm approach, it will also be able to contribute to the smoothing of friction between the various social partners, which often represent extreme positions in terms of society as a whole, in many cases virtually impractical positions during the negotiations on public finance issues. It is right that the candidate advocates a more favourable, systematic and more balanced and strategic tax policy. As far as his support for foreign investment and investment and prudent privatisation is concerned, we believe that such thinking is well-directed. For all of this, Mr Zdravko Restoršek also enjoys the support of the national communities. In the area of creating the economic basis of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, we also expect a step forward from the new economic minister. In this area, both the Constitution and the law provide opportunities, but unfortunately comprehensive and systematicly they have never been exploited. This is not only a problem from the point of view of the national communities themselves, but also for the entire region where these communities reside. With the systematic regulation of this issue, we expect a consistent professional and sincere leadership from the new Minister, which will undoubtedly benefit both in the conservation and development of these national communities and in the promotion of economic activity in both regions. Finally, let me say that we, too, want Mr Restoration's ministry to be a success, because this can actually contribute to the well-being of the whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u17	The text is given by the Mir Cerar Group of the Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr President, the distinguished ministerial assembly, Members and Members, distinguished guests, welcomed on behalf of the Party of Peace Cerar Group! I count it an extraordinary honor to be able to propose and support Mr Zdravek Pozvalška as Minister for Economic Development and Technology on behalf of the SMC Group on his personal behalf and also on behalf of the SMC Group. Despite previous attempts to find the minister, I believe that we have now really received the person we need in this job. With his work, knowledge and experience so far and with his attitude and knowledge of the wider economic space, the candidate has clearly demonstrated his knowledge. He also received the support of a large majority of Members and Members by his successful presentation on the committee responsible. At present, the micro and macro-economic situation can be improved only with the best of powers and with joint, creative cooperation, but by no means with discord, to drag the wagon into one, now to the other, and as it is after another. On the basis of the principles advocated by the candidate, in the SMC we believe that it is possible to move forward to improve the conditions for working in favour of all economic stakeholders in Slovenia. The candidate also sees his work in linking the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology with key economic actors such as the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other organisations and institutions. We must by no means live in the illusion that we are an isolated island in the world. No, no, no. We are an integral part of Europe and the world, and it is therefore important not to close ourselves and push ourselves into a corner, and this breadth has a candidate. We have learned that it is pointless to sing praises in advance to someone, so I will not magnify his previous work from this city; they appear in themselves, and let this also be a mirror of the future. At the Mir Cerar Party, we are convinced that Mr. Restoršek is a determined man and that he has given himself a dared task, and this is to improve the classification of Slovenia at the international level of competitiveness. It is clear that we must be determined, bold and, regardless of the obstacles, aim for a clear goal, and this is the recovery and development of the Slovenian economy. Everyone here wants to do this and we want it, and Mr. Restoration is a man with outstanding qualities that allow him to bring ambitions to help and revive our economy to a successful realization. That is why in the SMC we have decided to support Mr Zdravka Pozvalska as a candidate for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. At the same time, we firmly believe that he will gain the confidence of all of you, the other parliamentary parties, because he is a man of action and not of words. And as our great poet Oton Zupančič, Godfather, best man, only courage, Mr. Restoring. So good luck, and we from SMC will stand by your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u19	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ministerial team, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! Given the economic situation in the country, the expectations of economists from the Minister for Economic Development and Technology are very high, and it is extremely important who will lead this sector. Unfortunately, in the past, ministers have changed too often in this sector, which is certainly not encouraging for the Slovenian economy. Unfortunately, however, the whole event also shows a policy attitude towards the economy. Only economic growth is the basis for the country's solution and lasting well-being, so it is extremely important that we develop an environment that promotes the establishment, growth and development of businesses, an environment that will attract foreign investment, and an environment that will be both politically and economically stable. The Minister of Economy should have such weight and importance on the government team that it could have an impact on all legislation directly or indirectly linked to the economy. Economists rightly expect the Minister of Economy to be the person who advocates their problems, regardless of the nature of the area under which the law belongs. Significantly, when the Prime Minister presented the original government team to the Minister of Economy, he assigned a second place among ministers, immediately after the Minister of Finance. Maybe it's just random, but it would be right if it was. The Minister of Economy, without an influential role in the government team, good cooperation and coordination with other ministers, makes it extremely difficult to move in the right direction. On Tuesday, Zdravko Restovalšek presented himself to us as a candidate for Minister of Economy. After a brief presentation of his current career, he highlighted his commitment to increasing competitiveness. It is aware that from 2007 to 2014, we fell from 39th to 70th on the world competitiveness scale. Among the measures highlighted in the presentation and assessed as necessary to generate economic growth are: promotion of exports, foreign investments, improvement of the support environment for businesses, gradual reduction of the workload, promotion of tourism, prudent privatisation, effective and transparent management of state assets, systemic debt, restructuring of the business sector, payment discipline, combating the grey economy and optimising the ministry's functioning. The candidate's replies to questions from Members and Members were, in most cases, rather general, less concrete, but also, in many cases, contrary to the functioning of the existing coalition. Thus, among other things, the candidate said Stop to the new tax and that he would strive to end the new taxes and that the exit should be looked for elsewhere. Most likely, it was not in line with the Minister of Finance, given that we will continue to decide in today's meeting to raise two taxes, that the coalition contract contains the introduction of a real estate tax and that there is already a procedure for introducing another new tax, that is, a tax on sweet drinks. We believe that, as an economist, he is well aware of the problems facing the economy. We could also say the same about his predecessors, who were also convincing at the hearings with knowledge of the economic problem as they came from the profession. Unfortunately, the initial success story has often turned in the wrong direction, either because of baggage from the past or because of the inability to break ties with the company in which it was operating before the function took place. We strongly hope that this will not be the case. The candidate did not convince us by his presentation, because in his statements he was contradictory in terms of the functioning of the existing government team, which once again points to a lack of coherence between the two. All of this, however, may pose difficulties in further coordinating, failing to achieve the objectives set and aiming at improving the competitiveness of the economy and consequently further stagnation of the Slovenian economy. Otherwise, there is a selection of ministers in the coalition domain. We will therefore vote against it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I am opening the debate and giving the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. As this item in the agenda of the parliamentary group and the President of the Government of Time has not been announced in advance, under Article 67, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that any Member may only discuss a proposal for a candidate for a minister once and for 5 minutes. We vote on such a proposal for a decision. Procedurally, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u22	Before I put to the vote, I will support your decision, but I would like to propose, given that I have listened to all the presentations of all the parties and found what is not difficult, that Mr Restorszek has great support, that we vote on this support, that Mr Restorationšek will be able to join the Government at today's session and that he can also influence any decision in favour of the economy with his knowledge and experience. If we were not to politicise too much, I would suggest that we just vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u23	However, we must vote on my proposal first. This proposal, as I have already mentioned, is 5 minutes per Member and once available after the application. We vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I guess someone wants a word. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u24	Dear Mr. President, the Council of Ministers! Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! Today I almost feel like we love the President of the Government, so much encouragement and hope full of words has been expressed. In New Slovenia, too, we have decided to support the candidate for minister, although we are not in the government, because we are well aware of the importance of the economy for the country and because we are satisfied with the proposed candidate. The proposed candidate has a wide range of experience in agriculture, society, economy, tourism, assembly and so on, and we therefore believe that he will be a good economic ambassador. As we know that there can be no social state, if the economy does not work well, we are confident that Mr Restorationk will have an important word within this government. When I listened to the views of the coalition's members, I listened well and you all supported him. Although some views differ from those of you in your coalition agreement, I expect you to actually support it in his proposals in support of the economy. But the problem that I see is that often entrepreneurs, managers, directors, either alone or with their management body or as it is called, make quick, effective decisions, while in politics we face many obstacles. Because of this marriage, there's nothing to be done, because of the coalition, because of the unions, because I don't know what it is. I hope that this will not take the Minister's courage to propose legal changes if the laws are those that hinder something, but above all that he will not have obstacles or opponents within his own species or coalition parties. At the hearing, he proposed many things, supported by New Slovenia, from promoting exports, foreign investments, that we should be more open, privatisation, payment discipline, promoting tourism and much more, removing bureaucratic barriers, not new tax burdens on the economy, and that economists would not have to leave the negotiations, but that they would have in the economic minister of that supporter who would actually take up the needs of the economy, the demands of the economy, because we know that these requirements are not whimsical, but actually necessary to improve competitiveness, in order to improve the economic situation in Slovenia. And if the economy works, then they can also have better wages for nurses who were previously exposed, police officers, firefighters, young people to be new jobs, new jobs. That is why I say that the new Minister of Economy should actually be the one we will listen to because he comes with many experiences. He had to show by his concrete actions that he understood what the economy was, what measures were needed. That's why I believe that the eyes of the economists are now right on top of him. I wish the ministerial team all the best, and I also wish to be heard for concrete proposals to promote the economy and improve competitiveness in Slovenia. That is why I will also support the proposal for a minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u25	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers and ministers, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! We have a feeling that the proposed candidate for economic minister knows what needs to be done. This belief comes from his presentation, and it can be seen that the candidate comes from the real sector, comes from the economy, knows how things are served. Its views, which it presented, namely the rate of taxes, the promotion of tourism. Then let me continue to say that the worker in Slovenia is too expensive. I personally agree with these views completely. However, I see certain problems mainly in the compatibility of the future minister with one part of the government coalition on these key issues. In fact, the burden on the economy, the tax burden on the economy – the minister's candidate strongly opposes the rise of new taxes, and you in the government coalition are just before you put a tax on sweet drinks into the parliamentary procedure, then the regulation on the burden of energy-intensive companies and so on. So this is a certain conceptual contradiction between the candidate for minister and only the government coalition. The problem is also in relation to saving, then in relation to, as I have already said, the tax burden on the economy and people, and also, in my firm opinion, on trade unions. For what we witnessed last week, when on the one hand you drastically gave in to about 100 million euros to public sector unions, on the other hand, they left the trade unions in the economy in protest of the insubordination of the negotiations. I don't know how the Minister for Economy, who comes from the economy, your proposed candidate, would react. However, I would like Mr Restorschek to be actually the minister with weight and to be the voice of the economy in the government coalition, in the government. For I have the opinion that today, based on what has been seen in the last two months, this voice is too little. Of course, there are very high expectations from Mr Restoration, both from us politicians and from economists. That is why we are also saying that this is one of the hottest jobs that is now empty and available. I would like to express only one opinion on trade unions. In this case, Slovenian policy should be unified. Because I have a feeling, and I also share it with those who are convinced that trade unions actually run state policy, but they have no responsibilities. No responsibilities at all. And here it is in Slovenian politics to overcome trade union demands. Many times in the past, if in this case we were to unify ourselves, in the case of relations with trade unions, a number of reforms for the welfare of citizens and citizens would have been adopted and people today would have lived better. To finish the next one. The one who will be put on the cross by the candidate minister because of the sentence The worker is too expensive in Slovenia – yes, the worker in Slovenia is too expensive. Not because of his salary — no, his salary is even too low — but because of the tax burden on his salary. And that is why I place my heart on you to listen to the future minister when he says that a worker in Slovenia is too expensive, and when he says that taxes, including those taxes you propose, burden the Slovenian economy, choke the Slovenian economy. Listen to him and believe that you'll get along easier. That's it for now. But I want the future minister first of all to be treated equally within the Government and to experience as few arrows as possible, especially with one part of the government's coalition, with which he shares the conceptual opposite views. In the opposition, or as far as New Slovenia is concerned, we will be happy to support the good proposals proposed by Mr Restovalšek. Also because we believe that a person who knows how things are being served in the economy will personally give him support today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u27	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to call first, but we have some dilemmas to resolve here. One dilemma is that it is not necessarily that someone who is a good economist is a good minister. We have all the experience you want. I would now like to quote my colleague and colleague, Madam President of New Slovenia. Mate Matthew said he was a candidate for the real sector. Mrs. Ludmila spoke about the eyes of the economists. My colleague Jerney said the candidate comes from the real sector and the worker is too expensive. If I make a little joke, Nova Slovenija is coming to the government through the Minister of Economy, which I congratulate them for. But why are the costs of our work expensive? Why? If you were reading a little bit of other economists, not just those who whisper to you and why, say, I live 15 kilometers from the border, and I know so much German, but I don't see them in Austria talking all the time about how expensive and expensive a worker is. [[...]] And I don't want to start talking, but among Slovenian economists, there were just too many incompetent people, peaks, over. They could not transfer the activities to a new development model in which it would not be the main item and the main cost of this poor worker we cut. One more thing. The real sector versus what? What, everyone else is an unrealistic sector?Oh, my God! Fuck, then let's call it off! Let's move on to the agenda of the National Assembly to break it off, dot, dot, dot. You know, this unnamed, unrealistic sector of yours - without this sector, most of us wouldn't be here, especially the boys and girls from the countryside. We'd be shepherds, maybe we'd die of hunger, maybe we'd die because health care wouldn't be arranged. I mean, stop shitting him and stop making a fool of people. After all, most of us come from this sector, which some now call unrealistic. You make fun of too much of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and I ask that in future these words are no longer used here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u29	Let me warn you first. I would like to ask for a little less emotional performance, because some of the other Members of Parliament may be offended and now they need a replica just for that. I give the replica first to Mr. Vrtovac and then to Mrs. Ludmili Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I understand, Mr. Duck, that he mentioned us in this. New Slovenia does not go into coalition, but as a healthy opposition party we will support good proposals, and we will also support these proposals made by the future minister. And we also support him because we support the Slovenian economy. Because a healthy and strong Slovenian economy is the best social policy. And since you have spoken, Mr Trček, about the real sector, I apologize that then, if that is the real sector, we are an unrealistic sector. I'm sorry if that's what you're saying, but I'm going to talk about the economic sector. Economists, entrepreneurs are the ones who also pay for this hall, paying for the judiciary and all public servants. My father is an entrepreneur and he repeatedly tells me I pay so many contributions and taxes that you get paid, and for that take such measures so that I can work better. And I say, however, we are not going to any coalition that Mr Restorationk, as a long-standing economist, knows what he has to do. But if he doesn't do it, then let him back off. But I'm afraid the arrows will come from that side. Because there are conceptual contradictions to the perception of what the Slovenian economy needs, including in relation to social policy, and also in thinking about whether people need charity. People, Slovenes and Slovenians do not need any charity, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia need a job to support their family. And jobs will only be given in such a way that they receive incentives, only so that economists can create. That is why I support Mr Restorationk to become Minister of Economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u31	Replica, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u32	Mr. Duck, you've obviously only heard one part of our speeches. I said that nurses, cops, firefighters could have better wages if the economy worked better. We also stressed that wages are not too high, but taxes, contributions to be paid by economists are too high. That is why we cannot do this, and public spending must also be limited. You pointed out that those of us from the countryside would be shepherds and hungry, and I don't know what. I think you've been very insulting. Those of us from the countryside also know how to work the fields, gardens and so on, take care of themselves, so that you don't have to worry about us.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u33	Procedurally, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u34	Which, of course, I have to partially abuse. I'm from the country, too. I'm one of the rare whites born in the White Landscape, not in the New Town, I used to feed cows. What I wasn't doing, I wasn't eating my guts, and I wasn't slaughtering the chickens, I was doing everything else. I am very glad that colleague Jernej will no longer use this. But I could ask him a question about who's surviving his father. He's probably got some employees. I'm not going to Marxist discourse. I apologize for the abuse. Thank you. Otherwise, my fellow President of the National Assembly, I listened to the emotional calming of the Card, because otherwise I would have dropped this beautiful stone behind you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u35	With regard to this procedural Yes, I note that it was an abuse and a reminder. [[...]] Next one's gonna be a real reminder. Let's move on. The next one has the word of Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I would, however, have started with the fact that employees, workers or whatever we call them, active citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, have funded our education, our health care, our treatment, our education, including our security from that gross salary that is above it. Those who will deepen into different comparative systems will also see that those who rely on the market system also consider everything to be added value do not even share the real sector of these services, which are extremely important. I would almost say that the question of what is more important for creating a gross domestic product than for the normal functioning of society. Sometimes it has to be organised as an infrastructure, sometimes it doesn't, then it changes and so on. So I think it's a little retarded, a little bit behind on this debate. The second time I would like to take the Minister on his way – we will clearly vote in favour, and I will support him, and I deeply appreciate him. I was also a guest at his spas when I had small children and when the family went on potato vacations to those places. Slovenia is today a net exporter. Last year we had 2.2 billion surpluses in the current account, not just exports, imports, there are also all incomes, interest and everything else. We're doing more than we're singing. In the first nine months of this year we had a billion 600 surplus. At the end of the year, it will be about the same as last year, which is 6% of GDP. We are among the better in Europe after this result. Then employment improved, and this shift to GDP growth was also followed by employment. In September this year we had 10,000 more active than in September, that is 1.3%. This is a significant increase in employment. Then this year, GDP increased, you all know, 2.7, but in euros, 3.4. Public financial revenues, revenues increased by 5% because we had some other one-off effects. We've got a deflation. The cost of living index is 0.1%, which was lower in November than in November last year. This is true in a stable growing economy, based not on price competitiveness, on low labour costs, but on qualitative factors, on knowledge and entrepreneurship, on the introduction of new products, new technologies, constant change, reengineering. R & D expenditure amounts to 2.6% of GDP. After that, we are in the 6th place among the Eurogroup Member States. The unemployment rate is also lower in Slovenia than in the Eurogroup. We have achieved this with considerable effort, with development policies, which we have been actively pursuing since 2009. Even the governments that followed Pahorov did not significantly interrupt this because of the rigidity of European funds, as well as the new plans discussed by Comrade Trček, show that this policy will continue with the smart specialisation strategy. I am counting on Minister Restoration to do his part here, in particular in promoting the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, to insist that the rate of co-financing of the tax relief for research and development remains large enough for large enterprises to look for specifics in tourism, including the re-establishment of the wood industry. I would like to put to his heart if I could use this term, the idea set by the former Minister of Methods of Dragonja, the Fund for the Stabilisation of the Economy, which should be 51% owned by private funds, 49 in state funds, not to be considered State aid, and may have a significant impact on the fact that the debt crisis, or this credit crunch, which has been organised with us, has ceased further. I think that as an economic advocate, the Minister should be able to represent this economy also in the face of the credit market regulator and all the irrationalities it is implementing, or the sharper measures it gives from, say, Germany. It is said that adjustment periods are very important here; the economy takes some time to adjust, despite the fact that the Slovenian economy has endured a very severe shock. I'll talk about it later. I think it will have to insist on establishing a stable model of financing for the so-called development axes, which are important for the economy to us for several reasons, both on the side of the multiplier effects and on the development effects for Koroška, for the White Country, for the northern Primorsko and Kočevsko. After all, I think that I should also set up a project to promote Slovenia, the Slovenian economy in the world, to even represent that we are actually winners, not losers, or someone who needs help because it was all made up, and to restore our self-image at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u37	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u38	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Nice greeting to the government representatives, as long as you're still here! Others, I hope, are preparing some good law to promote the economy. And also, President, I would like to thank you for allowing this debate. Why don't we talk a little more about the economy in this House for a day? Perhaps the new candidate would like to hear what a pulse there is in this House. Let's take a look back a few months. The debates ran on all possible issues, at least the economy. So allow me here to address the National Assembly and perhaps some economic situation. Here I saw an article in one magazine for two football teams of ministers in the field of economics. This is one eloquent number that tells us what the situation is in this ministry and perhaps the relationship of the former governments to this ministry, even to the economy, or, if you want, to the real sector, when Dr. Trček is so sensitive to this term. I think that the attitude towards the economy in past governments and parliament has been unsatisfactory. In this regard, I would like to stress what happens if a company changes its leadership every year, what happens on one farm if the master changes every year. And that was the practice of the Ministry of the Economy in the past. There was no continuity, and among these 26 ministers were only 6 from the real sector – or the economy, that Mr Trček would not be offended. The ministry has shrinked, its energy has been taken away, its infrastructure, so I think that the former government policies have also transformed this ministry and there is no place and role in the government that it should have. I've even noticed in the media lately that we should just let this ministry be shut down. Who can imagine such a thing? One country, one government without the Ministry of Economy. That's not working. So I think it's my assessment at this point that we need a crisis manager to consolidate the city of the government ministry. And I think that Mr. Restoring is the right person for this place. For 33 years, he has managed successful companies in the economy, in agriculture, in the manufacturing industry, to repair them, so that these companies are still successful today. And what in particular convinced me on the Committee on the Economy? Mr Restovalšek stressed that he would act inter-resortally, in accordance with the principles of project management, so that there would be no unfulfilled projects resulting from poor inter-resort cooperation. Let me mention the double track and the third development axis. He stressed that he was aware of the multiple impact of infrastructure on tourism and economic development. Again, we are at the third development axis and other infrastructure projects. In particular, he stressed that he would revise Slovenia's development strategy and give greater support to the natural resources and resources that Slovenia has – wood industry and tourism. Of course, it is also important that Mr Restoršek's candidate stressed that a successful economy allows for the successful economic development and development of the whole society as such. I think we need to create a new slogan here, including in this House, first create and then share. For these reasons, I will support Mr Restovalska's candidate as Minister, and of course all of his actions to strengthen the Ministry within the Government as well as measures to create conditions for the growth of the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u39	Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u40	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministerial assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to begin by expressing great joy that Mr Zdravko Restoršek has decided and accepted this great challenge in the times we are in. The management of the Ministry will definitely not be an easy task, but I believe it will be done well. Why do I think so? The Society of Small Shareholders wrote: "Healing Rest is motivated, stubborn, combative, very working, direct. Some were skeptical when he took over the management of the then Atomic Warm Health Facility on 1 July 1999. Will the former mastermind of the Shmarje Agricultural Association and the director of the Milkarna Cereia be able to run a tourist company? He proved he knew. After arriving in Pod Thursday, he first cured the consequences of an earlier management's attempt to own a part of the company. Later he went on to create a new image on the market. The former railway resort, also attended by workers of a number of companies who had rented rooms there, turned it into a much more tourist-oriented middle-class resort." We were able to hear at the hearing that the candidate is of a strong character, both with experience in tourism and with knowledge of crisis management. He's the manager of 2010. Mr Restoršek – I believe that you are listening to us now – I wish you a great deal of strong will, good health and a team of people with whom you will take Slovenia to better times. I'd be happy to confirm you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u41	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, fellow Member and fellow Members! I support Dr. Restoration as an economist. He has rich working, managerial and organizational abilities. Mr Restorszek believes in the government's objectives, and I know that he will also achieve them. Let me mention some of these objectives, which have already been mentioned today, but are so important that we hear them more than once: increasing competitiveness, preserving existing jobs, creating jobs with rich added value. He said he would encourage exports. This is the only thing we need to encourage in all areas, because Slovenia is very small. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts. It will continue to advocate the development of tourism. He has announced the fight against the grey economy and is leaning towards lower taxes. Mr Restoratek sees the possibility of reviving the wood industry. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for what he said, I would raise both hands for him today, if necessary. At the presentation he was real and seemed calm. The candidate for minister also supports the general public. I estimate that Mr Restorsek is the right person for this ministry, so he also has my support and my voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u43	Once again, I am opening a list of applications for discussion. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! We now have a fourth minister in the last two years, which we are discussing in the National Assembly and also in the Home Committee. The last time we discussed this, I pointed out to Mr Petrovic that it was necessary to change this law slowly and to change this appointment, because it is the government that is doing the work that ministers are doing, and the government is taking responsibility for who is the minister and who is not. And this transfer of appointment to the parliamentary section makes no sense. It's just Slovenia, I think. Throughout Europe, the government is called executive, as responsibility goes directly to the Prime Minister. But nevertheless, Mr Restorszek presented on the parental committee a vision that was also somewhat pleasing to me, positive, but if I compare it with the coalition contract that was signed, I think he was very much in conflict with what was clearly seen in his replies to the new taxes. He literally called it a tax stop. We are already talking again at today's meeting about some additional burdens on the economy. The same was true of his opinion on the tax registers, and at the same time, we were able to read the opinions of other ministers on the web portals that said that this should be implemented, which is not the last thing written in the coalition contract. He was also very explicit about debtors, taxpayers and also debtors who do not pay social bills. He advocated that these debtors be public, which I think is very good. Indeed, so far in his practice he has performed quite a number of his tasks in terms of the rehabilitation of some economic operators, and we can consider this to be good for him, but I hope that the Government or the President of the Government has not taken him to the Government because he believes that it is necessary to make recovery, because if we have listened to some Members before, our country is in a very good condition, we have surpluses. I really didn't understand it anymore. Also, coming directly from the economy, I don't know whether it's still an advantage or not, given the experience of the last ministers that we've been changing every six months. They were all sneered by the fact that they came from the economy, that they knew the situation, that they could handle it, but their duration did not exactly make it so. Also, the fact that MGRT has been deprived of quite a lot of competence – we have talked about energy, we have talked about the means through European instruments for development, and that there is no longer any handicap at the Ministry of Economy. I would have turned it to the other side. The Ministry of Economy can now be burdened with this. It will not deal with the energy lobby, but it will be able to address the problems that are on the whole palette of economies, and I believe that the minister will be able to take advantage of this and not take this as a flaw. There are quite a few areas where very serious steps need to be taken very quickly. There was a lot of talk on the committee about tourism and development. I hope we all understand that tourism is also an exporter, a net exporter, because it is the only exporter where VAT remains in that country. So I hope that it will transfer its experience on another limited segment of tourism to more rapid action across the whole area and accelerate the development of tourism in Slovenia. We also asked him a lot of questions about the winter sports centres, where unfortunately there were no concrete answers, but he agreed that we were far behind on this segment and that we needed to make some moves as soon as possible. Otherwise, all the neighbouring countries, both those more developed in the west and those destinations from which we have had guests on our ski slopes, will outrun us. We are, of course, talking about the countries of our common previous country. So I believe he'll be successful. But it's like I said [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u45	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u46	Thank you, President, for your word. Finally, the day came when we met or received the new Minister of Economy. I hope that it will not only be more successful than the predecessors, but will also last longer in its seat or in its ministerial chair, because I believe that the economy in Slovenia needs a minister not every three months, but every three years. I wish the Minister of Economy a successful way. But we will probably all judge him together at the end of his term after what he will do, not according to what he says. If I listen to the words of the coalition MPs today, I expect you to set up a monument for him tomorrow, even though they usually make a successful monument after their death. I think the Minister of Economy is going to have a lot of problems. One is that it doesn't come from politics. A lot of people say it's Super, it's coming from the real sector, it knows the problems and so on. But, Your Honor, we had ministers who were politicians, and we had ministers who were previously in the real sector. And it's hard to say who was more successful. The first problem the minister will likely have is that he will have to learn what government is, what coalition is, what the National Assembly is, and so on. The second problem will be the official bike. I don't think there's an official bike in any department that won't say no sooner, no, minister, that's not how it works. And he's gonna ask another clerk, he's gonna say "Go"? We have to do this. Everyone expects us to do this. They're gonna say no, no, Minister, look, that's not going to work. So, it's an official bike. On the other hand, I think that there will be a major problem in relation to a number of conceptual differences within coalition parties. Mir Cerar Party sometimes wants to be quite liberal, SD party more social, that I will not say even more socialist party. There are already two concepts that the Minister will have to coordinate in his work. I listened to the hearing in the National Assembly, what the candidate for minister promised, one thing, a stop to the new taxes and a stop to the new burden of the economy. One hour later, the same coalition members had a finance committee where you passed three laws, two of us will tax new taxes, and one of us will add to this business and business environment in Slovenia. In short, one word, another act. I hope that his words will finally become acts, because otherwise the Slovenian economy is very badly marked. I hope he doesn't dream of how good the current situation is. Yesterday I attended the meeting of the Chamber of Commerce in Posavje. Everyone agreed on why we were successful at the moment. Fortunately, we had local elections that the mayors were winking that they had been re-elected, and fortunately, we still have some EU resources to draw on. Many of them have already been pumped this year, and some will draw on the funds in the first half of next year, and then this soap bubble will break, unless we have another early election at the end of 2015, and these ministers will also hurry up and make a new investment. Yesterday I also heard an interesting comment from the economists from Posavje. A colleague from the Czech Republic, who is the director of a successful company in Slovenia, said: "If the government does what it wants to do in the economy within three months, we will move. The other thing that the Slovenians obviously don't know how to deal with is that they have everything. We'd have industry, we'd have trade, we'd have tourism, and you're not even aware that we're part of an international environment, and we can be bought by Vienna overnight, and we're dreaming about what we'd all have." And he said, "In the Czech Republic, we've decided, we want industry and more. And we've been doing this for 20 years. In Slovenia, for 20 years, you just say what you would have, but you have nothing. And you won't have my company in three months because you don't know or do anything." So, Mr. Secretary-General, decide what you want, take a whip to your post and start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u47	The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As a large number of candidates have also been supported by the committee, of course I support the candidate, and this strongly, very, very much by myself. I am also pleased that it has been supported by the economy, the general public, because this means that we are now reaching an important consensus that can guide us forward and gives him confidence and confidence that this step he has taken is right. Much good has already been said today, and I will not build monuments, but I would look at the key, in my opinion, a key part of his presentation, which talked about cooperation and integration. As one of its priorities, the Minister of Economy sets out cooperation, partnership, both between the coalition and the opposition and among all other stakeholders in the economy. In my view, this is crucial today, because we need to agree on a strategy where we go, where we want to go, what we all want. It's just a one-sided deal that's not going to work. It is my understanding that the candidate has also clearly highlighted workers and trade unions. All stakeholders have been listed in this integration system, and there are still some important workers in this system, both in the real and other sectors, which sometimes, if so, may not exist without this so-called real sector. I am also pleased with the statements made by coalition partners Without a good economy, there is no social state. I am pleased that we are aware of this, because we must move from here forward. As has already been said today, the MGRT has been deprived of certain powers, and I believe this portfolio has a very important role, and this role is precisely in connecting all but every minister and ministry. We hear too many words of hope in this national assembly. I counted them a little today, at least 40. If I had hoped to come up to the mountain or past 20 miles or hoped to raise a child in good faith, I did not know if I would have just succeeded. I think we need to hear the word many times, I believe, because only when we all believe that we will succeed will we really succeed. We can help with hope, but we can make progress in faith. The music group of my youth, U2, said Love dies if you don't care about her. And it is time that this love, which does not last revive us and enables us to live and is still a real part of our world, is all of us, regardless of color, interest, sector, finally supporting us, because it is in the interests of the state and it is in the interest of all of us. As I said before, I will be happy to support the Minister of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u49	Mr Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u50	Thank you, President, for your word. Good afternoon, everyone! Today, the appointment of a new minister is on the agenda. There have been quite a lot of powers in this area in recent years; I think we all agree on this. We're kind of trying to look for what's left of the Ministry, and I think it exists. In some ways, tourism has already been exposed in past talks. We are all aware that this is a sector of great growth. Let me just mention that last year, two billion euros came into the state treasury from this title. Let me mention that, unlike 2012, 1.5% is higher. In some ways, it is also collected for 240 tax profit from this title, which can make it possible to estimate that it is a very profitable industry which is worth encouraging. My proposal will be quite concrete. In a way it is not detecting some warm water, but somehow comes from comparable countries; I am talking about Italy, I am talking about Greece, Croatia if you want, Malta, Poland. A number of countries have transformed the ministry in some way into a form that has highlighted tourism. My proposal will be clear and very brief. I propose to the Minister that, within the framework of the Law on State Administration, he transforms and renames the ministry in such a way as to give tourism a greater role. I am talking about recommending and suggesting that he appoints the Secretary for Tourism to appoint the Ministry of Economy, Development, Technology and Tourism. This is mainly because we will give some effect to our awareness that tourism is the sector that can bring us in difficult times, as is evident, on better days. My proposal is clear and brief, and I hope it will be worth considering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u51	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see there are no more interested So? [[...]] In this case, please report. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. On this occasion, I will be very brief for a change. I would like to say that I will personally support the candidate for Minister. Not in hopes, but in the belief that this election of President of the Government is successful and that this will be a solution by the end of this term, which will last for at least three years and some more. It is true that, as my colleague Jurša said in the introductions to the presentation of the opinion of the Desus Group, we have been looking for the Minister for a long time. This is not encouraging, but I am sure that it is a good conclusion, all good that we have chosen the right minister, that the Minister who said at the hearing will give particular importance to tourism, especially economic competitiveness in Slovenia, and that his priority will also be sustainable development and the promotion of projects with strong multiplier effects, incentives and the fact that it must also succeed on this path. On this occasion, I would also like to warn the Minister, or urge him to pay particular attention to those parts of Slovenia, to which no doubt North-East Slovenia also belongs, if you want more details, Maribor with its surroundings. In some ways, let him devote some positive discrimination to this part of Slovenia and keep in mind that the second largest city with its surroundings, which has already paid, among other things, the highest price of this transformation or transition, will receive some encouragement from those measures that will restore its former glory. Once again, I will support the candidate for Minister, and on this path I wish him plenty of happiness and plenty of good, good-natured associates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u53	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. In opening, I must say that there is certainly no one in the National Assembly who does not realize how important it is to get an economic minister. With the state in which our country is, this fact is extremely, extremely exposed. I'm sure this economic minister should have been appointed a long time ago. Look, we have the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been doing its work for almost a hundred days. And what was done up to this point, except that they were getting paid? What has been done in this country in all these hundreds of days for citizens and citizens who pay them? And look, almost a hundred days have passed and it is only today that we get the name of an economic minister, one of the key positions at a given time, crucial for the future and development of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, I call on today's economic minister not to happen that the Minister of Economy will only be for two months, three or five. This is because many times in this recent period many things have been said, and in the end things have gone in a different direction. And all that this coalition has in the coalition contract is far from the direction that the candidate for economic minister spoke of at the hearing. I fear that this collision will occur very, very quickly when the Minister of Economic Affairs, most likely today, is confirmed, begins to follow the path he spoke about without hearing. That's what I'm afraid of. And that is why I ask you, dear coalition Members, to be grateful to him that what is happening from day to day will not happen in the time of your government, from minute to minute, that the ministers come, depart, and so on. Another thing that seems very important to me is that today, at point 1, we are discussing how we are going to vote on the economic minister, and he said one thing at the hearing. And see, today we have then 1st, 2nd, 3rd item of the agenda, with which we additionally burden the economy, laws that add to the burden of the economy. So that is contrary to what the candidate for the Minister of Economics said at the hearing. And I ask this government and this coalition, where do you live? Where do you live?Oh, my God! How are you going to explain to the people that, on the one hand today, we are confirming an economic minister who is talking about how the conditions for the functioning of the economy need to be improved and that we must not burden the economy and, on the other hand, immediately adopt three laws that impose additional burden on the economy?Oh, my God! How will you explain this to the Slovenian people?Oh, my God! Here I also have a craftsman and I will quote one of the paragraphs that is written here: "The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia resolutely: not additional burdens on the economy. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia opposes the additional burdens on the economy provided for in the Government's proposal for austerity measures. The tax on financial and insurance services represents higher operating costs, which would further exacerbate the situation of the Slovenian economy, which is less competitive every year due to high burdens and poor business environment." And this special government of Mira Cerar and this coalition are doing exactly the opposite of what the economists wrote here. How do you expect the government to come out of this situation, to create new jobs of higher added value, the only key to coming out of this financial and economic and social distress and crisis if you continue this approach of yours? And I ask you to really listen to what economists, entrepreneurs and craftsmen tell you. Stop burdening the Slovenian economy and look for solutions where they are. Where money flows through large pipes from our country, make a line.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u55	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u56	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a respected candidate for the Minister of Economy! I myself listened with great interest at the hearing of the candidate in his views on the functioning of the economic system in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, we listened to the story of his career, especially in society and tourism, in thermal tourism. Unfortunately, it is an economy, the economy we most likely want, but it is also an economy of high added value. It's a high-tech economy. This is the economy that is likely to be the largest guarantee for job stability, i.e. the economy that gives the highest added value to knowledge in its products or services. This is all the knowledge that we now have stored at the institutes, research institutes and that we have not yet implemented into our service products. We are therefore talking about how to connect institutions with the economy and how to put it on the market through a product or service. So we're talking about the final product that we call some innovation. And here he was, I must admit, an extremely modest candidate; in fact, he didn't say anything. Another important thing is how to develop techniques. Above all, I'm talking about bionics, robotics, we're talking about knowledge, things that we need to implement, that are at some stage of development in the Republic of Slovenia and need some extra acceleration, and where we can show high added value in products and services over the next few years. Next thing. The Minister for the Economy has a tremendous impact on economic policy, in particular the business environment policy, on the functioning of all other ministries, how his colleagues operate, or whether they work in a comprehensive manner. As my colleague Pojbič told me before me, the government is very well known, it does not have a comprehensive image. Negotiations with trade unions that were for the government can be said to be an extraordinary failure – that is, the winners of these negotiations were trade unions – indicate that there will be no room for manoeuvre here. So they've somehow tied their hands together to their candidate for Minister of Economy, and that's a big problem. Not to mention major setbacks in denationalisation procedures, which have an extremely negative impact on the development of tourism, resulting from serious reform in the judicial system. Not to mention the Ministry of the Environment, which is the next representative, that is, the Minister of the Environment, how it will work, how fast it will be to put projects into space and so on. All these policies have the greatest impact on the Minister of Economy. And this man should be the one who should be with the Prime Minister in addition to the Minister of Finance, the other minister who should have the greatest support. That's how I see it, that's how we see it, and that's how we look at the Minister of Economy. So, if there is no support, such an individual, even if, for example, he has come as a good candidate, an experienced candidate, someone who is some engine that is persistent – such a candidate is essentially destroyed by such a government. And all these proposals of these new laws indicate that you will be burdening the economic system. Above all, you will seek additional money in the form of taxes in the economy. So those who do their best have to be punished the most. Those who have so far done the worst, most irrationally, let us leave them alone. Even in the public sector, I think there are large reserves. Large reserves are still in public procurement. We need a public sector review of what we need and what we don't need, where the reserves are. This was not the case at that time, and it shows that the economic minister will have the worst interlocutors in his own government. In all likelihood, as before, the economic minister will have the most interlocutors in the current opposition, and this is what I find to be a sad image. I want the Minister of Economic Affairs all the best. I want him to be heard in his own government, and after the first manoeuvres that this government has put in place, some of the initial elements it has put in place, I see that they will be looking for these solutions, i.e. solutions to where to get more money, precisely in additional taxes, i.e. in the additional burden of the economy, and in particular in further reducing standards as regards a successful business environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u57	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I must express my criticism to the Prime Minister of the Government, who, in addition to the Finance Minister, the most important Minister of the Government, took exactly three minutes of time and left the Chamber. Such an approach does not seem appropriate or worthy of the President of the Government. The second point is that the solutions or views presented at the hearing of the candidate for minister are diametrically contrary to the measures proposed by the Government. So far, only two sets of measures have been proposed by the government or coalition, namely the termination of the mandate of Janez Janša and seven tax laws. Nothing else so far. And these measures proposed by the Government are going in a completely opposite direction from encouraging foreign investment, going in a completely opposite direction with regard to measures, and these are not measures to improve the business environment for small, medium and other businesses. Practically, these things are being completely eliminated, and the President of the Government would have to explain this schizophrenic situation when his candidate for one of the key ministers is a different solution than the Government has here in the National Assembly. Because with this presentation of the candidate for minister, someone in this situation is superfluous, either a ministerial candidate or a government president with his current team. These things are incredibly cutting. In March this year, my fellow Member, Mr Joseph Horvat, asked the former Prime Minister of the Government, which measures her Government attaches to economic growth. And you will not believe that after more than a year of government Mrs Alenka Bratušek could not list any measures that would contribute to economic growth. And if we ask now whether one year from now this government, which measures are those that contribute to economic growth, will probably only be able to list the tax laws by which it has additionally burdened the economy, bank transactions, income and so on. But these are not measures that would contribute to this. The next thing I have to point out is the matter of the presentation, as set out in the minutes, of the committee hearing report. In her presentation, the Committee president did not mention in a single word the use of European funds. We are all talking about how these grants drawn from the European budget are key to economic growth, key to development, key to investment and so on. There wasn't a word in the candidate's presentation. Not a word. The lady who had read this report before did not comment on this either. Imagine, the drawing of European funds, the key item, everyone bragging about it, and the candidate for a minister completely ignored it. He didn't say either how, or what, or with anyone, or in any way, and so on. In his presentation, however, he paid considerable attention to the well-thought-out privatisation. If we go a little bit to look at this technology, this means contractual privatisation, this is called privatisation in the way that it has happened so far, when all this has been going on in some clubs, networks, ommises and so on. There was a lot of attention to that. This was a key issue in this presentation, not measures that could contribute to simplifying the business environment, economic growth and so on. And another question for the Prime Minister: Does the candidate meet the ethical criteria required of all others who are in opposition? Before we decide on the candidate and in any way decide, it would be incumbent on the President of the Government to provide answers to these key questions. I do not understand why the President of the Government can avoid this debate and communication with members of the National Assembly. I don't know if the coalition can take this as a ritual, but it's a crucial question of who will be the minister, what will it be, whether it's in the government's concept or not. From the debate [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u59	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate and, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, suspend the work of the National Assembly for 20 minutes. The meeting will continue at 2.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u60	We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to a decision on the following decision: For the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, the name is Zdravko Počvalšek. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 14. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that Mr Zdravko Restoršek is appointed Minister for Economic Development and Technology. / applause/ I congratulate the Minister of Government on his appointment and wish him success in his duties!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u61	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your oath. Mr. Secretary would like to speak before the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u63	Respected and respected! Thank you all so much for the support you gave me. I pledge to do everything I can to make progress in the area I lead. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u64	I thank the Minister for his words. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a bill amending the Financial Services Tax Act in the context of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to supplement the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go, mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposal for the amendment to the Financial Services Tax Act is an integral part of the package of measures to ensure the planned revenue of the state budget for 2015. In view of the expiry of the Tax Law on Balanced Banks at the end of this year and the consequent reduction of the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget, an increase in the rate of the financial services tax is planned to compensate for the lower tax revenue from the earlier tax. This measure was also provided for in the stability programme submitted to the European Commission. With the projected increase in the rate of tax on financial services from the existing 6,5 to 8,5 % in 2015, an additional EUR 13 million is expected to increase the revenue of the State budget under this tax. As a result of the tax evasion, the revenue of the state budget will increase by an additional million EUR 200 000 in 2016, which means that the financial impact of the change in rates at the annual level will be 14.2 million euros. In addition, the proposal for a law also contains the harmonisation of criminal provisions with the Law on Offences. The Law on Offences for the determination of fines within the range of legal persons borders between medium-sized and large companies and other companies. A higher fine is envisaged for medium and large companies. This is also followed by a proposal for a law setting a fine within the range for these companies. The proposal for a law also includes a mandate which provides that, in a rapid procedure, a fine may be imposed in an amount higher than the minimum prescribed fine laid down in the law. The draft law also includes the necessary terminology adjustments in accordance with the law governing the financial administration. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law be approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The presentation of the Committee's report will be presented by Mrs Urška Ban, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, well-known! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 8th urgent session, on 2. 12. 2014 as a parent labour body has considered the proposal for a law amending the Financial Services Tax Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 10th meeting, on 26. 11. 2014 has provided for the submission of the amendment to be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure. In addition to the legislative proposal, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the amendment of the law, the comments of the Association of Insurance Agencies and the written support of 40 companies on those comments. By the beginning of the meeting, the amendments had been tabled by three coalition groups, SMC, Desus and SD, on the basis of the warnings given in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, on Articles 5 and 6 of the legislative proposal. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. It follows from the additional explanation provided by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance that the text of the amendment is prepared with a view to achieving the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia under the Stability Programme for this year with regard to the 2015 budgetary plan framework. And since Slovenia has to reduce the deficit of the sector in 2015 below 3 % of gross domestic product, measures have to be sought on both the revenue and expenditure sides. The latter, in addition to the parallel proposal to amend the Insurance Tax Act, also allows for the proposed text. It is worth noting that the stability programme already gives rise to the Government’s announcement that the reduced revenue from the tax on the balance sheet amount of banks that expire at the end of this year will be compensated by an increase in the nominal rate of the tax on financial services and the insurance tax. The Government also introduces criminal provisions and formal corrections to the text of the law for the purpose of establishing the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In the course of her presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that she had no comments on the amended provisions, but in particular pointed to the written comments submitted on Articles 2 and 3 of the legislative proposal. This is a nomotechnical problem of naming the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In its reply, the Government said, among other things, that the text was in line with the Government's legislative service. At the same time, it seems appropriate, in the opinion expressed, that the first amendment to each substantive regulation also reflects the change in the organisational field. In the debate between Members and Members, the view was expressed that the text entails additional taxation of the economy, which means deterioration of the business environment and less competitiveness. The Government's representative was also asked about the reasons for the Government's decision not to extend the Tax Law to the balance sheet sum of banks. The Ministry's representative explained that the purpose of the Balance Sheet Tax Act, which was implemented in 2011, was not to provide additional financial resources to the state budget, but to encourage banks to strengthen lending, but that law did not produce the desired results and the lending of banks did not strengthen. However, the fiscal function of the balance sheet tax has been significantly strengthened as a result of the legislative changes introduced at the end of 2012 for 2013 and this year. As a result, the extensive recapitalisation of banks, both last year and this year, would not be an incentive to increase the bank's credit activity, but would add to the burden on those banks that were recapitalised this year and last year, which would mean that they would somehow have had a reverse effect. From now on, the Government's decision not to propose the extension of the Tax Law to the balance sheet sum of banks, but to adopt an open option for a proportionate increase in the rate of the tax on financial services and the tax on insurance transactions. In the manner described, any legislative proposal from the tax area which is currently in the National Assembly or which has recently been adopted essentially means maintaining the scope of taxation rather than additional taxation. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 5 and 6 of the Law and adopted the text of the Act in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Franz Križanič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u69	Honorable President of the High Council! Allow me to present the position of the Social Democrats' Group on amendments to the Financial Services Tax Act. The Social Democrats will support these changes. The Slovenian share of the country's gross domestic product income is 45.2 per cent. In the euro area, this share is 46.5%. The difference is 1.3 percentage points, we have enough reserves to capture some average standard of our important partners in the Eurogroup family. We have to get about 470 million more somewhere to have long-term more stable finances in line with the standards that exist in the Eurogroup. The financial sector must contribute, as it says, to budget deficits. To this end, a fiscal service tax was introduced in 2012. It was introduced by economic policy makers who claim otherwise that they do not wish to correct tax rates in any way. They've been repaired from nothing to 6.5%. Now it's rising from 6.5 to 8.5%. Why? Because at the same time, the tax on the balance sheet total is being abolished. The balance sheet tax was introduced during the period of the Pahor government. We have introduced it with the aim of disstimulating banks to encourage them not to reduce loans to the economy, with the incentives they had for this tax. If they had increased credit activity, they would have had enough stimulus, so we expected that these credit activities would not be reduced. The tax was simply dimensionalized too modestly. It should be substantially, substantially larger, with higher levels to perhaps fall or not, as the damage that started in July 2010 following the changes in the regulation of the Bank of Slovenia, when it placed very high capital ratios, caused a huge decline in the credits of the banking system to the economy. The latest data are for October 2014; then banks, foreign or domestic owned by Slovenian non-financial corporations, can be said to the economy, with the exception of investment funds or other financial companies that separately display 12 billion. At the peak, it is said that when everything was still running normally, in July 2010, this sum was 21 billion. The fall is 9 billion euros. Some of this, about a third or more, has been transferred to a bad bank, and the actual decline in credit activity remains. Only in October, this is the last month, these loans have been reduced by an additional 900 million. So this process is still running and running. No recapitalisation or calls, nothing depends, however, on changing the mode of regulation to change the approach itself, and of course we have a huge, huge reserve here. The situation is now that business banks in Slovenia have a short-term budget of around €3 billion net. If you subtract what they owe, 2.9 billion. They're entirely a net creditor for 800 million. Banka Slovenije is a net creditor abroad for 6.5 billion and the rest of the household economy is worth 2 billion because we are a net exporter. Only the state is in charge abroad. It is necessary to change the regulatory regime and the fiscal effect of this change in the increase in credit activity that banks can only carry out in order to transfer some money from abroad and turn it around in the Slovenian economy in order to facilitate the extension of credits, to pay back the deadline where it makes sense. In view of the project financed by these loans, economic activity will increase significantly, domestic demand will increase, optimism will be further strengthened, inflows will increase, stability of the banking system will increase and public financial effects will be improved. In short, the Social Democrats will support a change of law. We believe that this is an extremely modern law, and that the financial system must also contribute to the budgetary balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the United Left, we have a somewhat mixed view of the introduction of this tax. First, I'll tell you what things we welcome. We welcome, for the first time, that the Government has discovered that the budget can also be adjusted on the revenue side, not only on the expenditure side. This means that it can also be managed by introducing slightly higher taxes, especially for the richest ones, or in this case by taxing the financial sector, rather than simply trying to achieve the balance sheet in a way that cuts the public sector, the weakest, social transfers and so on. In this sense, we welcome this tax and hope that the Government will strengthen such a matter in the future. In addition, we welcome the fact that the Government is not subject to this fear of taxes, which is mainly spread around the Economic Chamber. Here I would also like to call for more ambitious policies in this area, because, for example, as Banka Slovenije's latest study suggests, public spending increases have a much greater positive impact on economic growth than they have on the same issue. For example, if the country raises public spending by 1%, on average in Slovenia GDP would rise by 1.6% at the moment. On the other hand, if I raised taxes by 1%, GDP would fall by 0.4%. Therefore, the policy effects would be extremely positive if the country raised taxes by 1% and in order to increase public spending by 1%, or positive effects would be several times higher than negative. What's bothering us about this tax? In fact, we are disturbed by the fact that it is only a substitute for the tax on balance sheet sum, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. In this sense, we are disturbed by the understanding of taxes, as if taxes are only here to patch up budget holes. In the United Left, we would like to point out that taxes are also here because they have certain substantive implications. For example, we see the tax on balance sheet totals in the United Left as being extremely positive because it means that banks are stimulated by this tax, that they hold as little capital as possible and that they are lending the economy as possible because they hold more than capital to themselves, they will pay more taxes. Therefore, in this place, we call on the Government to consider even more ambitious reintroduction of this tax than we have known in the past. In addition, we note here that the imposition of this tax will allow for a slight rise in the prices of financial services, which may have a regressive effect. What does that mean? To make them less powerful more vulnerable, we call for caution here. Given the fact that the financial sector is being taxed, the issue of Tobin's tax at European level would be raised. Here, as we know, we listen daily to the media to face the threats of these and those financial markets, but at the same time these financial markets still exist extremely deregulated at European level, even though there is a political will in many Member States to reverse or at least make them more difficult by introducing the so-called Tobin tax, i.e. the financial transaction tax. But Slovenia has withdrawn its support for those Member States that have this initiative and its position is still extremely unintended and extremely pragmatic in terms of adapting to the situation. Therefore, if I draw the line, we will support the introduction of this tax in the United Left, while at the same time calling on the Government, for the first time, to consider reintroducing the tax on the balance sheet sum of banks and, secondly, to immediately change its position on the introduction of Tobin's tax at European level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats in our economic programme, which has received recognition and praise from all sides, wrote on the first hand: "Christian Democrats are not high taxes that represent economic policies that would lead to a balanced state budget, but to tax suffocation of businesses, to escape into a grey economy and to destroy family budgets. We argue that tax policy changes should not be taken so lightly and lightly. That's why we Christian Democrats are fiscal conservatives. Christian Democrats argue that the economic policy of borrowing debt instead of implementing structural reforms leads to long-term poverty. We do not want to pay more taxes and thus transfer savings to taxpayers, i.e. families and businesses, but we want to do so with higher tax revenues, which are the result of lower taxes, which will only allow for higher economic activity (employment and investment), and consequently lead to higher economic growth, and only this will allow us debt relief. The rapid increase in debt to Christian Democrats is not a successful economic policy, but a reason for concern about the future of our children." I have also just calculated that this government is in fact continuing its debt. At present, the rate of debt is 0.8 billion per hour, 0.8 billion per hour. It seems populism, but the numbers are realistic. A concrete proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Financial Services Tax Act is actually an additional taxation of the population, and this is strongly opposed by the Christian Democrats. In fact, we all receive current housing and other costs, and we have to pay them, otherwise we have to follow enforcement recovery procedures. So we can't avoid paying the fees when paying the bills. While financial service taxpayers are formally, according to the letter of law, banks and other financial institutions, we all know that banks, including those covered by the tax money, have in the past fully transferred the burden of this tax to final consumers through higher fees and higher credit authorisation costs. Even more, the costs of commissions have increased even by a higher percentage than the fees. In this way banks and other financial institutions provide additional income. We have no doubt that this increase in the bank's tax liability will be fully passed on to the consumer through higher fees and higher credit clearance costs. The Ministry of Finance, in its statements, is at peace with the fact that this additional tax burden will not be significant. Nevertheless, we note that for family budgets, where ten or more bills are paid monthly, this cost is already significant at the annual level, especially for those families where one or both parents are unemployed. And such families in Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues are not few. At this point, the ministry responsible for families and social affairs would be expected to make a lot of noise due to this increased tax. In Novi Slovenija we oppose additional tax burdens, so Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Services Tax Act will not be supported. More precisely, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Under the Value Added Tax Act, financial transactions are classified among so-called other exempted activities such as: lending; issuing and managing credit guarantees; transactions and transactions in deposits and current or transaction accounts, payments and remittances; transactions and transactions in relation to currencies, banknotes and coins other than collector coins and banknotes; transactions and transactions in relation to shares, shares, bonds and other securities; and the management of investment funds. This means that from these transactions no value added tax is charged or payable. The exemption shall apply to all taxable persons who carry out those financial transactions irrespective of whether they are financial institutions or other taxable persons. However, according to the nature of the services, these exemptions are mostly granted to banks and other financial institutions. In 2011, the Balance Sheet Tax Act was adopted to encourage banks to offer loans more and more appropriately. The law was amended once in 2012, and expires at the end of 2014. Since the purpose of the Balance Sheet Tax Act has not been achieved, since banks have not increased the volume of loans to the non-financial sector and this is not due to a more favourable tax treatment, it is therefore not appropriate to extend this law. However, the application of the financial services tax ensured a more even distribution of the tax burden of the financial sector. The calculation of the tax on financial services by monthly accounts is relatively simple and administratively not burdensome for financial institutions, but not only tax collection and supervision for the tax authority. For the reasons described, an increase in the rate of financial services tax, from the existing 6,5 % to 8,5 %, is planned under the Stability Programme in 2015 due to the loss of public financial revenues resulting from the termination of the tax on the balance sheet total of banks. The main purpose of the law is therefore to achieve the planned financial effects estimated at €13 million for 2015. There are also criminal provisions and some harmonisation, but as the bill suggests, the key financial effects introduced by the law are crucial. At the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we support the proposed amendments to the law because the reasons for today's change have convinced us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u77	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In SMC, we support the proposal for a law amending the Financial Services Tax Act. We all know that our country, the Republic of Slovenia, is in the European Commission's surplus deficit process, under which it has committed itself to reducing the country's sector deficit below 3% of GDP. In view of the dynamics of deficit reduction, a deficit must be ensured within the framework of the planned, which means that appropriate measures should also be taken on the revenue side as early as 2015. In doing so, I would point out that this proposal does not involve a new tax, since, already in 2012, the Financial Services Tax Act introduced a financial service tax aimed at ensuring a more equitable burden on the financial sector, since until the introduction of that tax, this sector in the Republic of Slovenia was not burdened at all by specific taxes. The proposal for a law amending the Financial Services Tax Act is an integral part of a package of measures to ensure the planned revenue of the budget for 2015. In the light of the financial gap we have and the commitments made under the Stability Programme, certain measures must be taken, and the rise in this tax rate, which will bring an additional EUR 13 million to the state treasury, is one of them. Under this law, the rate of tax on financial services will increase by 2% and thus provide revenue for the state budget. In doing so, it should be stressed that the European Commission's commitment to the former Government and the commitment must be fulfilled, because of its inclusion in the 2015 stability programme, it foresees an increase in the tax rates, which also coincides with the loss of public financial revenues resulting from the termination of the tax on the balance sheet total of banks which expires by 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thus, one bank tax is replaced by another bank tax, and this is not a new tax, since the tax on the balance sheet sum of banks is being abolished at the same time. The law further proposes amendments to the work which regulates offences by aligning the criminal provisions of this law with the Law on Offences. In the SMC, we expect, above all, that there will be no cartel agreement between banks that would transfer this burden in a coordinated manner to the final consumers. In the light of all the above, the law amending the Financial Services Tax Act will be supported by the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives or representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be firm against this tax and against the amendment of this law. And so that we do not live in illusions, who actually pays this tax — this tax is paid by people. This tax is paid by people to get the tax on them. We're talking about so-called tax evasion. It is an illusion that the banking sector will be more taxed with this, and it is an illusion that the banking sector is more burdened and so on. When we talk about value added tax, there is a completely different tax in the value added tax system, and financial and insurance services are exempt there, which means that banks do not have the right to enter tax, which means that the exemption itself results in double taxation throughout the economy and so on and so on. In short, the illusion that an exemption means an actual exemption is too present in this Chamber and is wrong. With this tax, ladies and gentlemen, we tax the economy and tax the population, because they actually pay this tax and they take it away from the financial institutions, because it is easier to burden them by taking away the financial institutions that tax as if each individual had to pay that tax. This, of course, makes it completely wrong for an opinion that appears in public and wherever it is that this is not an additional burden. This is an additional burden on the population to pay this tax. And this is an additional burden on the economy to pay this tax. It appears that the government of Mira Cerar has no other power than to bring new taxes, but it also proposes an illusionist vision that this is not a new tax, but it is only a substitute for one and another and a third. If we are talking about a tax paid by banks to balance sheet sums, this is a completely different tax. This is a typical transport tax with which financial services will be taxed and actually paid by all people, all citizens and citizens. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are completely united that this economy in this country no longer endures. This is pointed out by the Chamber of Commerce and it is recalled by the Chamber of Commerce. And it is no longer possible to pass tax on the economy to the population, because products and services are becoming uncompetitive and because part of this tax is also at the price of these products and these services. I don't know where you're going with these taxes, Your Honor. So far, you have shown nothing but increasing taxes and burdens on people and the economy, absolutely nothing else. That the farce is even bigger, let's go to speaking on the other hand and that you have previously confirmed the Minister of Economy, who promises unchanged taxes, which speak of the economy being too burdensome. In the next quarter of an hour, you load him up, and today we're talking about it. That is why I expect you to remain consistent in this and vote against this tax tomorrow. Because I actually want you to look at what this tax actually means. And that there is a statement of value added tax and financial services exempt from this tax in the explanatory memorandum. Look, it's only a quarter, the rest is deceiving. This makes financial services even more taxed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are firmly opposed to additional taxation and firmly against this tax rate rising from 6.5% to 8.5%.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Desus Group we will support the proposal for a law amending the Financial Services Tax Act. The financial services tax, as we know, was introduced in 2012, mainly with a view to ensuring an adequate and more equitable distribution of the tax burden of the financial sector. In August 2011, the Bank Tax Act began to apply. This law has put in place a measure to remedy the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, either with the aim of providing additional incentives to banks to provide greater and more appropriate support for loans to the non-financial sector. However, with the Act amending and supplementing the Tax Law on Balanced Banks, which was adopted in December 2012, the calculation and payment of the balance sheet tax was limited to the end of this year. This law, as we have already heard many times today, has unfortunately failed to achieve its purpose because there has been no expansion or increase in lending by financial institutions, and this has also been the reason why this law has been introduced. The Government has decided not to extend the validity of this Regulation. Thus, due to the time limit on the calculation and payment of taxes on the balance sheet sum of banks and consequently the reduction of the budget revenue of the Republic of Slovenia in the stability programme in 2015, an increase in the rate of the financial services tax is planned. Therefore, the substantial change brought about by the proposed amendment or amendment of the law is an increase in the tax rate on financial services by 2 %, from 6.5 to 8.5 %. Furthermore, the aim of the bill is also to harmonise criminal provisions with the Offences Act. On the basis of this change, some €13 million is expected in 2015 to receive higher revenue from the financial services tax budget and, in 2016, a good million more, i.e. total of €14.2 million. As it is said, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are not inclined to raise tax rates and we are not looking forward to the proposed solution, but we are convinced that it is better than any other alternative in which we should go and which would constitute an intervention in the rights of the socially weak groups of our population. We are aware that we need to take care of both sides of the budget, on the revenue and expenditure side, and do everything we can to make the deficit below 3% of GDP in the coming year or in the coming years. In view of the fact that, under the Stability Programme in 2015, an increase in the rate of tax on financial services is planned, which merely replaces the loss of government revenue resulting from the termination of the law, which has defined the tax on balance sheet sums, we will, as I said in the introduction, unanimously support the proposal of the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE SURVEILLANCE TAX IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CURRENT PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Just as before, the proposal for a law amending the Act on the Transport of Insurance Taxes constitutes an integral part of the package of measures to ensure the planned revenue of the State budget for 2015. Together with the tax on financial services, it is a compensation for lost revenue under the Balance Sheet Tax Act, which expires at the end of this year. Once again, I stress that this is a measure which has also been envisaged in the stability programme, as submitted to the European Commission in the spring of this year. The increase in the tax rate on insurance transactions is in line with the increase in the rate of the tax on financial services, rising from the existing 6,5 % to 8,5 %. This appropriation is intended to cover additional revenue of EUR 17 million in 2015 and additional revenue of EUR 1 million in 2016 as a result of the delay in the payment of invoices and the payment of taxes per month for an additional million and a half. This means that the overall financial impact of the proposed change at the annual level is €18.5 million. In this case, too, criminal provisions are being supplemented or amended where the amounts of fines of the tolar value are converted and rounded to euro value. In addition, the criminal provision is coordinated with the Law on Offences, which sets fines in the ranges of legal persons and in so doing borders between medium-sized and large companies and other economic companies. The draft law includes a mandate which provides that a fine higher than the minimum prescribed fine may be imposed in a rapid procedure, thereby making criminal sanctions under this law more consistent with the gravity of the infringements detected by the supervisory authority. The draft law also includes the necessary terminology adjustments in accordance with the law governing the financial administration. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the above-mentioned and taking into account the explanations provided, I propose that the National Assembly support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 8th urgent session. 12. In 2014, the Government submitted a proposal for a law amending the Act on the Transport of Insurance Affairs to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 10th session of the 26th session. 11. 2014 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, and made specific comments to Article 2 and 3 of the bill. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. The amendments to the bill have been tabled by the coalition SMC, Desus and SD groups on Article 5 of the bill. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the main solutions to the draft law, which is prepared in accordance with the commitments of the Republic of Slovenia adopted in the stability programme for this year, namely that part of the reduced revenue from the tax on the balance sheet sum of banks that expire at the end of this year will be compensated by an increase in the nominal rate of the insurance tax. At the same time, the Government also regulates the criminal provision and individual formal corrections in the text of the law for the purpose of establishing the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained the written opinion and pointed in particular to the nomotechnical problem of naming the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in individual laws. Finally, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 5. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u87	Honourable Vice President, Your Honor! In the United Left, we will also support the insurance service tax as well as the financial transaction tax. In doing so, I would only point once again to the same things as before. We are disturbed by the fact that it is only some tax refund on the balance sheet amount of banks that we see as very positive. Secondly, we point to the potential regressive nature of these taxes, so that the increased costs can be passed on to the end-users, with the poorest being affected, and here we note caution. Otherwise, we also offer support to this tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Transport of Insurance Transactions, similar to the proposal for the amendment of the Financial Services Tax Act, raises the tax rate by 2 percentage points, from 6,5 % to 8,5 % and by 30 % respectively. So this tax goes up 30%. Maybe we wouldn't be so sharp if this raise was, say, 5%. As we have already explained in our position in the earlier draft law, in Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we oppose tax hikes. We are also opposed to increasing taxes on insurance business. However, we would like to draw attention to some of the overlooked aspects of the planned additional fiscal inflows while increasing the tax rates on insurance transactions. Following a government proposal, the aim is to increase the budget revenue by a total of 30 million per year, both of which are the new amendments to the Financial Services Tax Act. Only an increase in the tax rate from the turnover of insurance transactions is expected to result in an additional budget inflow of 16 million per year. We estimate that this will not happen. He just sent me a message from a gentleman working on insurance business. He has a nine-member family and said that he paid 6,000 500 euros this year. This means that he will pay EUR 8 000 500 a second year. Or in other words: in a way, each member of the nine-member family will be deprived of €222. Moreover, people involved in insurance business will leave or go abroad. What will this mean for the budget, for our country's budgetary inflows? Nothing. They won't get $16 million, they'll get much less. The budget will get significantly less. We understand that banks and insurance companies are going to pass the tax on customers, the population and the economy, and that insurance companies are not going to pay it out of their profits. This has already been confirmed in our insurance companies. Therefore, this tax will result in an increase in insurance premiums. However, we must take into account the fact that a large proportion of insurance is not compulsory, such as for example car insurance or liability insurance in certain professions, but that an individual or an entrepreneur chooses to do so voluntarily. In particular, in life insurance and life insurance insurance, insurance companies have been identified as a fact, and we hear this every year in reports, the decline in the number of new insurance. Due to the inability to pay premiums, there will be, and still a large number of insurers will decide to suspend life insurance after the policies already concluded. In the event of a termination of insurance before the end of 10 years, the insurers must pay a tax on the turnover of insurance transactions, which will henceforth be 8.5 % and lose a considerable amount of the money paid. So he's a beaten citizen again. Such an insured person will not blindly decide to enter into a new type of insurance. The increase in premiums will certainly result in a lower level of insurance, not just personal but also property, including car helmets, and the planned volume of the larger budget inflows from this heading will certainly not be. So, instead of the fiscal policy of the country promoting insurance – elementary disasters are every day, more frequent each year — our lives, the lives of our citizens, the country or that government is acting in exactly the opposite way. As has already been said, Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats are strongly opposed to the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Transport of Insurance Transactions Tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Act on the Transport of Insurance Transactions, which provides for the obligation to pay taxes on the transport of insurance transactions, was implemented at the same time as the application of the Value Added Tax Act and complements the value added tax system in the taxation of insurance transactions. VAT is not charged from insurance transactions and insurance providers are not entitled to enforce VAT deductions. At the same time, insurance companies or other legal persons engaged in insurance transactions in the territory of Slovenia shall pay an insurance tax of 6,5 %. The termination of the Balance Sheet Tax Law, which was intended to encourage the Bank to make more and more appropriate loans – given the fact that this purpose has not been achieved, we do not believe that the extension of this law makes sense. The Stability Programme thus envisioned an increase in the rate of insurance tax for 2015. It is therefore a matter of providing additional financial resources to the State budget due to the loss of public finances when the balance sheet tax expires. For the reasons described, a 2 percentage point increase in the rate of turnover of insurance is planned under the Stability Programme in 2015. The financial impact in 2015 is thus estimated at around €18.5 million at annual level. In addition, criminal provisions and a few minor harmonisations are still in place, but according to the draft law, the key financial effects introduced by the law are crucial. At the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we support the proposed amendments to the law. The reasons why we are witnessing today’s change have convinced us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs Maruša Škopac will present the position of the Group of the Party of Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Act on the Transport of Insurance Transactions, which provides for the obligation to pay taxes on the transport of insurance transactions, was implemented in 1999, at the same time as the application of the Value Added Tax Act, and complements the value added tax system in the taxation of insurance transactions. The proposed Law on Amendments to the Law on the Transport of Insurance Transactions provides similar solutions as the Law on Amendments to the Financial Services Tax Act and is an integral part of the package of measures to ensure the planned revenue of the State budget for 2015. In view of the expiry of the Banking Tax Act of 31 March 2014, the Bank had to pay the balance sheet tax. 12. 2014 and the consequent decline in the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget, the stability programme plans to increase the rate of insurance tax. As a result, this law replaces the existing rate of 6,5 % with 8,5 % in the system of payment of insurance taxes. On the basis of the revenues of the State budget for the transport of insurance in the years 2003 to 2007, we estimate that the revenue of the state budget under this heading will increase by around €18.5 million at annual level. In the SMC, we are aware that the rise in this tax will increase the burden of undertaking insurance business, but in fact we do not expect insurance companies to fully exceed the cost to the consumer. We expect insurance companies to find their own internal reserves. This law also regulates the provisions of Article 14 of the existing law, which refers to the amount of fines for individual offences. We adapt it to our currency today and to the delimitation of businesses to micro, small, medium and large companies in accordance with Article 55 of the Company Act. In the SMC Group, we will support the Act on Amendments to the Insurance Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This law, or amendment of the law, is the same way of taxation of the population or those providing insurance services, or insurance agents, if they cannot pass that tax or pass on, as a better term, to the final consumer or to the insured. There is no other way here than for this tax to eventually be passed on to the final consumer or to capture existing profits or thereby reduce the profits of those who provide such services or at the end of insurance companies. Given that the main insurance company, which has the largest market share, I think that over 70% in state ownership will have so much less profits, so much less dividends for the country and the matter will be perfectly clear here. This is where we're talking about regression. Here we are talking about regression, as in the previous law, that those with lower income will pay more taxes on their income. This is a characteristic of all transport taxes and this is a typical transport tax, such as a typical transport tax, such as a transport tax and value added tax or, if you want, some kind of excise duty. And here you tax more people and the economy. In fact, there are no other philosophies in taxes, especially when we consider their effect on people's pockets at the end of the day. And here, once again, this is completely contrary to what has been said at the hearing by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, as the Minister of Economy, who was elected today, said at the hearing. And here I am worried about what will happen to the government of Mira Cerar because we have two currents. One, it's a financial one that increases taxes, the other is an economic one that says no, not to increase taxes. However, it seems that this financial power now has much greater power, because this coalition, this government comes to the National Assembly exclusively with new taxes. The third law is the one we are considering today. This isn't about making up for anything. This is because the law cannot be replaced by the balance sheet of banks with the law on insurance services. Only income can be replaced. Income can also be replaced by another law, because of me with the Property Tax Act or any other law. I'm not saying he needs to be introduced here, but it's an illusion again, that we're replacing something here and that these aren't new taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, these are new taxes and the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support these new taxes because they are harmful. They reduce the competitiveness of the economy and, on the other hand, reduce the real income of the population. As they reduce the competitiveness of the economy, they increase unemployment and indirectly reduce the financial revenues of the state budget. This is actually happening today, with so-called indirect taxes. For all these taxes will no longer be possible to pass on to the final consumer, because he will not pay them and because he will simply no longer be insured. He won't be insured for natural disasters either. And that is probably why the country will pay even more damage in the end. I don't know where she's gonna get the money, or with a new assignment, and in that case, people will be even more impoverished and even more poor, because no one else will be able to compensate for that damage. This actually means extra pauperisation of people, extra poverty. This is not visible at first sight, but indirectly through monthly positions that are larger and larger. This is also why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, this tax or the amendment of the legislation, we will not support or oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u97	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is a relatively similar material to that of the previous point, namely the amendment to the Act on the Transport of Insurance. Here, the State is pursuing a similar objective as in the Financial Services Tax Act, i.e. that the loss of revenue under the failed Balance Sheet Tax Act in some way replaces with another inflow, with another inflow, this is a tax on the turnover of insurance transactions, replacing the loss of income after the expiry of the Balance Sheet Tax Act, which expires at the end of this year. The obligation to pay the value added tax was established by the law of 1999 and complements the value added tax system in the field of insurance taxation. This amendment raises the rate of tax on the transport of insurance by 2 percentage points, from 6.5 to 8.5 %, while the provisions of the current law are also in line with the criminal provisions of the Offences Act. On the basis of the increase in the tax by the above mentioned 2%, from 6.5 to 8.5, it is assumed or expected that an increase of €18.5 million at the annual level is expected. Due to the late payment to the state budget in 2015, this revenue will be only 17 million higher in the next year. As I said at the previous point, i.e. in the Financial Services Tax Act, we are not overly impressed by the Desus Insurance Tax Act. Otherwise, we are not inclined to raise tax rates, but we are aware that this is a better alternative than existing ones, in particular those that would intervene in cutting revenue and affect the existing material situation. At the same time, we hope that financial and insurance institutions will not transfer all additional burdens to end-users, but will look for something, search for their reserves, which undoubtedly are and exist. Therefore, in view of the fact that, under the Stability Programme in 2015, an increase in the rate of turnover of insurance transactions is planned, which merely replaces on the revenue side the loss of public financial revenues resulting from the termination of the tax on the balance sheet sum of banks, we will unanimously support the proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Križanič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u99	Honorable President of the High Council! Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Insurance Tax Act. This tax has a similar role to that of all other services and the sale of goods in insurance transactions, with the difference that the rate is lower. It was lower before, it's lower now. A lower level makes sense because it encourages people to be insured, it is said to be a slightly low-priced insurance against other services and other goods, including food. However, it places a slightly greater emphasis on establishing the security offered by this specific insurance sector. Slovenians have a tradition of developing this sector, a very strong insurance company. They proved to be in crisis, none of them were seriously affected by market exposure. Even if they were exposed, they were only to the point that they survived easily. Of course, they also had appropriate regulation, which did not force them into certain irrationalities, which could lead to additional problems or pressure on their clients and so on, as is the case in the banking sector. The release of credit activities will be of great benefit to insurance. The premium, we can expect, will begin to grow with economic growth. Last year, it was still shrinking in total, in aggregate. However, if there is a change in the regulation of credit activity, some impact, for example, on the different approaches of the European Central Bank, also in the Slovenian environment, then insurance companies will gain an over-average share here because their goods, their security supply, the so-called superior good; income growth is increasing demand for insurance services at an above-average rate. Finally, this sector was in one particular way discriminated against by the irrational decommissioning of owners of Slovenian banks and before that by preventing the timely recapitalisation of one of these banks. The problem is being resolved before the courts today, and if this is to be fair, I think the sector will have additional favourable results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 5 December, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the Tax Procedure Act in the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The bill includes a number of substantive areas, and among the most important, it would certainly mark provisions relating to increasing transparency in cash transactions and thereby reduce the possibility of non-payment of taxes. By pursuing this objective, in the case of cash transactions, the issuance of invoices shall be governed by the provision of transparent data on invoices issued and any subsequent changes to those accounts, even in cases where the taxable persons issue accounts without the use of a computer program or electronic device, and therefore issue accounts manually. The taxable person will be able to issue an invoice for the delivery of goods or services by using the bound account book. This can be used if it is confirmed by the tax authority, but the confirmation is regulated electronically by causing as little confusion and administrative burden as possible. The bill further provides for normal service as the basic mode of service, i.e. no longer personal service. The service shall be deemed to have taken place on the 15th day following the date of dispatch unless otherwise provided for in the Tax Procedure Act. The arrangements for electronic service of documents through the eDavka portal will be mandatory from 1 January 2016 onwards for business entities already required to issue tax invoices or forecasts through this portal. The tax authority will hand over documents electronically to other taxable persons, if they so choose. The third set of amendments concerns tax enforcement. Exemptions from individual income or property from tax enforcement shall be in line with the exemptions applicable in civil enforcement as set out in the Enforcement and Insurance Act. However, the most extensive part of the proposed amendments to the law relates to the implementation of an agreement concluded with the United States of America regarding the so-called Law on Respect for Tax Regulations in respect of Foreign Accounts, or in short, in a conversation called FATCA. This agreement, concluded between Slovenia and America, introduces reporting for financial institutions in relation to certain accounts. This Agreement was signed on 2 June this year and details the obligations of Slovenian financial institutions and financial administrations relating to the implementation of the Agreement. The draft law regulates the details of this implementation, namely the obligations of financial institutions in Slovenia vis-à-vis the competent authority of Slovenia and lays down mechanisms for ensuring and controlling these obligations. The procedures for due diligence, the obligation to identify accounts and the collection and reporting of information to the tax authority shall be laid down. The competent authority for the exchange of information under the agreement will be the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. It will not be too much to point out that the agreement is bilateral, but this law or implementing provisions governs only the area relating to the obligations of Slovenian financial institutions and the Slovenian financial administration in relation to the exchange of data. The US Financial or Tax Administration will exchange data in accordance with the procedures laid down by their regulations and directly the agreement itself. The last area of content I would like to highlight is the system of valuations in relation to the so-called small part, which is regulated by the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment. Since the valuation system itself represents a specific system for paying social security contributions, this system should also be recognised in the Tax Procedure Act. In view of the important changes made by the proposed law, administrative simplifications for the debtors and the additional possibility of supervision, we propose that you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Urska Ban, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has also considered this proposal for a law which has been tabled by the Government at the 8th urgent meeting of the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. 12. 2014 as a parent working body. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 10th session of the 26th session. 11. 2014 decided that the proposal for this Act should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee was also given the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the amendment of this Act. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to this proposal have been tabled by the coalition SMC, Desus and SD. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the main solutions to the proposed law relate mainly to six content sets: the determination of the obligation to issue an account without the use of a computer program or electronic device in cash operations by means of a linked account book approved by the tax authority prior to application; the determination of the compulsory service of decisions of the tax authority via the eTax portal from 1 January 2016; the establishment of a voluntary service via the eTax portal in 2015; the establishment of a voluntary service of documents to natural persons through the eTax portal; and the establishment of a service by means of a standard service of decisions with which the tax rate is fixed; the harmonisation of the provisions on tax enforcement with the provisions of the Enforcement and Insurance Act; the implementation of an agreement between the Government of Slovenia and the United States of America on improving compliance with the tax regulations at international level; the determination of the provisions on tax enforcement by the law on the basis of the performance of the transfer of the act of the transfer of the act. Members and members of the Committee did not discuss the content of the solution to the proposed law. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellows, dear colleagues, once again a very nice greeting! It is interesting to note that at this tax-coloured session, at which, thank God, we finally received an economic minister, a very ruling coalition for this economic minister today at this meeting, in some way, giving his first earring. Taxes which are highly thronged are accepted and have a strong impact on the business of economic operators. He's supposed to be, and I hope he will be, a messenger of the economy in the government. Maybe he didn't even know what was going to happen at this meeting as a candidate for the minister himself. Now to the point. The current proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act is again one of the many amendments to this Act, which is again adopted by emergency procedure. In view of the fact that this is a systemic law, so many interventions into marriage are not appropriate. It is also inappropriate to take an emergency procedure. In our opinion, therefore, according to the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – there is also no valid reason for these changes and amendments to the law not to be considered following a regular procedure in which enough time and opportunity to hear and improve the voice of the profession and the general public regarding the content of the changes. We stress once again, so often changing the law introduces more confusion into our legal system than order. Especially in the field of tax law is a particularly important aspect of predictability or the principle of certainty. How, however, should economic operators that are taxable seriously plan their activities for a few years further if the country changes the tax rules on a yearly basis? We must not forget that the Tax Procedure Act is also one of the rules that is very important for ensuring an appropriate business environment and a stable environment. And if we really want a successful economy and in this regard attract new investors, including from abroad, we will be forced to consider what business environment we will provide in the future. Now there's something about content. The most important novelty that is being introduced is the linked account book that will be obliged to use those debtors who deal in cash but do not use a computer program. The basic objective pursued by this measure is certainly to increase inflows to the State budget from a higher inflow than the value added tax charged and also from a profit tax. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are aware of the extent of the grey economy and the necessary measures to infect it. We support such measures that plague the grey economy, but the question of this solution, which is proposed, is the bound ledger of accounts, or it is not just some new bureaucratic burden on economic operators. In the fight against the grey economy, however, we expect the financial management to consistently implement the latest amendment to this law, which has come into force this year, and will certainly in this regard, in particular in the following financial year, show the projected high budgetary inflows from the rate of taxes on unannounced income or unannounced assets. Let me remind you, the government then promised not just a few tens, but a few hundred million additional budget inflows from that source. Taxation is also intended to cover funds transferred to tax havens and will be identified by the Financial Administration through an international exchange of data. In the direction of effective tax investigations and taxation of unexplained property, therefore, the expectations of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – are large and justified. The Law on the Tax Procedure introduces innovations in the field of social and certain other benefits which are exempt from tax enforcement and comply with the provisions of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. In this way, we will ensure that social security benefits actually serve their purpose, that is to provide basic means for the survival of the debtors, not for other purposes, for the recovery of debts that the debtors cannot actually repay due to underincome. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be supported by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Law despite the concerns raised in the introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u107	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill, as the Secretary of State has already said before me, actually deals with six content sets. In the first part, the supervision of cash transactions is tightened. Binding accounts shall be introduced for all those who do not use a computer program that allows taxable persons to delete or modify invoices issued. The related account book will thus be confirmed by the tax authority after the new application. Of course, your coalition contract and the promise of the introduction of so-called real tax registers will become stronger for us in this first set. Surprisingly, we do not have the Tax Offices Act before us today. The second set represents the service of decisions. According to the proposal for a law, decisions specifying the rate of payment of the tax shall be served by regular mail. The expected savings due to this change in the mode of service are certainly significant. Electronic service via eTax will also apply to certain taxpayers of the tax authority in tax procedures, but not to customers in other legal proceedings. However, natural persons will be able to participate voluntarily in the e-heating system through the eDavka portal. There is also considerable savings to be expected here. The third package covers tax enforcement, namely compliance with the Enforcement and Insurance Act. The fourth set includes the implementation of an agreement between the Government of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on compliance with and improvement of tax rules. This is the exchange of information between the two tax offices, Slovenia and the United States, in the area of avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and property. In the fifth instalment, the income from income from personal supplemental work is included in the case where the income adjustment should be calculated by the taxpayer. This is a matter of compliance with the law on the prevention of work on black and its established system of valuations. For income from personal supplemental work for which an income allowance is due to be calculated by the payer, the method of calculating the income advance by decision of the taxable person shall be determined. The sixth, and thus the last set, constitute criminal provisions, namely to breach the obligations of this law, that is, the obligation to refer to transaction accounts, to issue an account for the use of the account from the bound account, to implement the agreement between the Government of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America. The proposal for the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act itself will be supported, but, as I have already pointed out in the introduction, we expected you to offer us at the end of the year a Law on Treasury and not just a book of accounts for the cash transactions of the debtors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the Mir Cerar Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u109	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and representatives of the Government, a very nice greeting! In the Mir Cerar Party, we understand the most important solutions proposed by the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act in the provisions aimed primarily at combating the grey economy. The bill increases transparency in cash transactions and thus reduces the possibility of non-payment of taxes. By pursuing this objective, in the course of cash operations, accounts shall be issued irrespective of form in a manner that will allow for the transparency of the data on invoices issued and any subsequent changes to those accounts. Transparency and traceability of data are already ensured in cases where the debtors issue accounts using computer programs and electronic devices in accordance with Article 38 of the Tax Procedure Act. On the basis of this law, this objective will also be achieved in cases where the debtors issue accounts without the use of a computer program or electronic device. In such cases, the taxable person will be able to issue an invoice for the supply of goods or services made using a bound account to be confirmed by the competent tax authority. We consider the proposed bound accounts in the Mir Cerar Party as a complementary measure that will allow for the transparency of cash transactions. Of course, in order to increase transparency in the future, it will be necessary to introduce real tax receipts that will reduce tax gaps among taxpayers operating in cash. A coalition in a coalition treaty has committed itself to the introduction of these. However, the accounts record will be a measure that will increase the transparency of cash transactions even in cases where there will be no tax receipts for certain entities. However, in the Mir Cerar Party, we welcome the fact that the tax procedures also provide for the implementation and implementation of an agreement on improving compliance with tax rules at the international level. The proposal for a law does not impose additional obligations on financial institutions that would not result from the already mentioned agreement. Of course, implementation of the agreement will have to be ensured in an ongoing manner. It is very important that changes to the law have direct positive consequences for the state budget and indirectly for other public funds. The proposed solutions are expected to limit the possibility of avoiding the payment of taxes on cash transactions and, therefore, action against cases of grey economy will be more effective and the extent of the charges collected for all public treasury. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Tax Procedure Act brings two substantive solutions. First, the most important thing is that taxpayers who operate in cash and do not have an electronic way of doing business will receive on the tax administration's websites a so-called tax book where the invoices will be marked. These accounts will then be taken over, raised and betrayed in their operations. It states here that this is equivalent to the regulation of electronic commerce. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going 10 years ago. On the one hand, the tax administration will now regulate the forms, the accounts and so on, on the basis of which the taxpayers will raise them. Here, of course, the accounts will be displayed and then the question will be asked, what if this tax book is now, if these documents are faked, and then it starts to get complicated, complicated and so on. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, why, in electronic age, if you also have other ways against the grey economy, against the so-called grey economy Today, by pressing the button, you send capital to any European or global country, Luxembourg, USA, wherever you want. [[...]] On the other hand, some stranger will do it. Let's just say he's going to do it and come to the tax office and get the book of accounts and write them, takeover and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in recent years the tax administration has done so against the grey economy Take the bill from the advertising that was, until tax receipts were introduced, to the forecast of the tax registers and so on. [[...]] You also have an explanation of how much this fight has brought against the grey economy, and you will be able to find that force is little, especially if you consider that the tax and customs authorities have directed all forces to reduce the grey economy, since we have witnessed some information in the media, how various lepers have persecuted along the roads and so on and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way! You're saying, the government's talking, the financial administration's talking about the fines she's charged, and the question is, how much tax has she actually collected from this. Here I think the force is a little bit. That is why we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party against such a way, against additional bureaucracy and against additional administration. The second is an agreement between the US and Slovenia on the basis of which tax administrations will exchange tax information, on who paid the US tax, who paid it in Slovenia and so on. Here is an open question for the Government and for representatives of the Government to tell how much tax information the tax administration has demanded under a double taxation agreement. For example, after an agreement to avoid double taxation with Luxembourg, the tax administration may require a list of persons who have paid a tax in Luxembourg who have property in Luxembourg or who have money in Luxembourg. And given that Luxembourg is now the country that is also being considered at the level of the European Commission and so on, it would probably be useful to know how many times the tax administration has asked the countries with which it has concluded agreements to provide information on how our residents pay taxes abroad or in Slovenia and so on. In short, I hope that all these agreements will also be implemented – after all, Slovenia has many – and that they will actually take effect, those provisions already signed in the present ones. I think there are more than 80 such agreements. Of course, in this direction, I expect the government's response accordingly. In general, we do not support the Tax Procedure Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! The most important objective pursued by this bill is to limit the possibility of abuse in the cash business of business entities and to reduce the scope of the grey economy in the Slovenian economic area. The data on tax controls show that the problem of the grey economy is particularly difficult in activities where cash is traded because this traffic is not shown in business books. Thus, for example, in the tax control procedures for the implementation of Article 38 of the Tax Procedure Act between 2010 and 1 July 2013, it was found that, in the case of random elections, approximately half of the taxpayers subsequently changed the items in the invoices issued and thus adjusted the business books, which is of course of concern. Following measures to combat the grey economy, positive effects have already been shown in the form of an increased rate of voluntary payment of tax liabilities. In the Desus Group, we believe that the measures proposed in this bill will improve the transparency of cash transactions and thus also affect the reduction of the scope of the grey economy. After the adoption of this bill, taxable persons who issue bills without the use of a computer program or electronic device will have to use the forms in the bound account, which will be previously printed, numbered and recorded with the tax authority, to issue the invoices. This will ensure greater traceability in invoices issued without the use of a computer program or electronic device in cash operations, thus ensuring easier and more effective control of the tax authority, and significantly more taxes will be collected and collected. This arrangement is a step closer to the introduction of tax receipts, which we have also committed to in the coalition contract, and could be implemented by September next year. In addition to measures to combat the grey economy, the proposal for a law also regulates certain other areas, namely the service of decisions on the periodic payment of taxes, which will now be carried out by regular service. Those debtors who are now required to pay taxes through the eDavka portal will receive new documents through this portal. The bill also provides for a way of calculating the income from personal supplemental work income in the event that the income adjustment should be calculated by the taxpayer himself. The adoption of the amendment will also ensure the effective implementation of an agreement complementing the arrangements for cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America in the area of avoiding double-counting of income and property and the exchange of tax information. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u114	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much, President. A respected choir! The Group of Social Democrats supports the proposal for a new Law on the Tax Procedure. Among other things, the proposal introduces simplification and appreciation of the delivery of decisions, and this, in electronic form, ensures the implementation of the agreement between Slovenia and the United States of America on improving compliance with tax rules, mutual information, in this case, of course, of the US authorities on residents or debtors. The main objective of the law is to limit the possibility of abuse that occurs in the issuance of manually completed accounts. The law simplifies execution in banking work and introduces simple accounting and tax registration when it comes to occasional work; in this sense it is a novelty in Slovenia. In the Group of Social Democrats, we advocate the effectiveness of tax procedures. We are aware that the efficiency of tax collection and the effectiveness of the fight against the grey economy are largely dependent on the revenue side of the budget, while higher budgetary revenues are a guarantee to maintain the availability of social services, as well as the further development and management of the development policy that we still have, which we do not have a foreign exchange rate. The proposal for the amendment to the Law on the Tax Procedure, which is before us today, follows in part the activities of the fight against the grey economy. It lays down the obligation to issue accounts using the bound account book. These will be taxpayers who do not use electronic devices in the issuance of invoices, and now, of course, they are increasing, which is frozen and cannot be deleted anymore, obtained in free circulation and will have to be confirmed by the tax authority. As it is understood, the proposal of the novel extends the work tasks of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, and in this regard we repeat the warnings of trade unions, customs and taxpayers which have highlighted certain shortcomings in the functioning of the merged body and have presented proposals to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the organisational restructuring of that body. It was noted that the merger of Durs and Curs, as they were called with abbreviations, should be upgraded with the system of organisational, data, methodological and human resources, that a cancelled planning, analysis and statistics service should be established and that a specialised group against international fraud and the expert group against the grey economy and the tax gap should be established. As a response, we expect the Ministry to act accordingly. We support the mechanisms for the elimination of abuses, while at the same time expressing the expectation that the Government will strengthen its activities in this area and lay the groundwork for the introduction of tax registers. Efforts to detect and prevent the grey economy are important both in terms of safeguarding the acquisition of a social state and in terms of preventing unfair competition. As we say, in the Group of Social Democrats we support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act, but we will not support the amendment of the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u116	The text is given by the United Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u117	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The government is proposing amendments to the law to pay taxes more consistently. This is a kind of fight against the tax evasion of the minor amount that occurs in cash transactions. The agreement with the United States should also help to comply with tax rules. In the United Left, we agree with the purpose of the law. We agree that taxpayers must be treated equally and that it is necessary to prevent tax evasion. Unfortunately, however, we note that the Government is directly avoiding those measures that would actually increase tax revenue and tax collection efficiency. At the end of last year, before the merger of the tax and customs administration, there was a tax debt of a billion and a half euros, of which a good 900 million active debt can be recovered. Of course, we do not object to the proposal of the Tax Procedure Act, which introduces certain improvements, but we would certainly expect the Government to first submit to the National Assembly a plan to recover this 900 million tax debt and then address the problem of small-scale thefts for these few cents. The draft law also contains provisions for the implementation of the agreement between Slovenia and the United States on compliance with tax rules at international level. It is the implementation of the American law on compliance with tax rules relating to accounts abroad, FACTA. No one can challenge the well-intentionedness of these efforts, but we must be honest with our citizens that this agreement does not solve in any way the problem of tax evasion in tax havens. We regret to talk about compliance with tax rules in the US and Slovenia, while in the heart of the European Union we have a country in which tax evasion is legal. The President of the European Commission is Mr Juncker, who served for 24 years as its finance minister or Prime Minister. Minister of Finance from 1989 to 2009, Prime Minister from 1995 to 2013, and for some time he was both. Luxembourg manipulation is expected to involve some 380 multinationals. The authorities there allowed these companies to spill profits from the countries where it was created and where it would normally be taxed to Luxembourg, where it was taxed at a rate of 0.25%. I did not see the Slovenian government protesting this, but I wonder with what moral argument the President of the Government will convince small traders and craftsmen for whom he now introduces bound books not to follow the example of these multinationals. The proposed law would prevent the introduction of so-called bound books from changing back accounts even for those not using computer programs to issue accounts. The results of the inspection show that tax avoidance is high. The analysis submitted by the Government showed that, following the introduction of virtual tax inflows, there had been a significant increase. In our view, this is sufficient reason for the introduction of so-called bound books. If not, it's worth a try. That is why we will support the law, along with amendments that address technical shortcomings. However, we expect the Government and the National Assembly to work in the future on how to prevent tax dumping between the Member States of the European Union and how to eliminate tax havens that are mostly colonial territories of those same Member States of the European Union. The government set up a commission one week ago to propose measures by 15 March 2015. In doing so, she will have our full support if she works with credibility, not with the principle of "if you want nothing to change, she will set up a new commission". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u118	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. We will not support this amendment. Some of the debtors are already exempt from the issuance of invoices – the sale of crops on stands or from doors to doors, the sale of air, rail and bus tickets. The debtors for whom the bound book is introduced are treated in one way or another and do not need a computer and a computer accounting programme. They would say that, due to the lack of normal jobs, people are forced into espionage, and in 2013 the number of employees decreased by 50,000 and the number of self-employed increased by 6,000. It also shows that the number of employees in self-employed natural persons has decreased from 72 thousand 300 to 51 thousand 139 by almost 21 thousand. This is due to the collapse of construction. All categories of employment are falling, and all years of crisis. However, the number of employees is increasing, as confirmed by this, I repeat that it is a matter of increasing chastity. This is a real problem, how to create normal jobs, not how to write accounts, on your hand or on your computer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u120	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, I said that we support measures to reduce the grey economy. I also pointed out that this measure of introducing the bound account book actually brings a new bureaucratic obstacle to economic operators. And we have clearly written down in our programme, and even more so, that we are striving for less bureaucratic obstacles. That is why, not just us, but the majority of us in the National Assembly, remember the end of the previous term, the amendment of the Income Act and the amendment of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, where we raised the threshold for so-called flatlists from 50 to 100,000. But the government kind of didn't accept our offer. This deadline, however, was in this direction for the Government to come to this National Assembly also with the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act and to raise the threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system from 50 to 100 000. Since the Government has not deliberately done so, in some way the above-mentioned tax law, the Income Act and the Law on corporate income tax will have no effect in the coming year. Because flatfoots are the ones who actually pay flat-rate taxes and don't have to keep books. Traders, micro-enterprises know how to do their business, their core business. Papers, paperwork is lost energy. No one in this country benefits from this. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we oppose additional bureaucratic obstacles, which is what this book, the bound book of accounts is. Therefore, it is logical that we support this amendment. What are we actually talking about, dear colleagues? We practically did nothing in the last two years, except for the above mentioned tax laws that came to the National Assembly from the opposition side, New Slovenia and the then Slovenian People's Party, for the economy or more precisely to improve the economic environment, the business environment! Who's gonna give us the job? Who's going to give the job 115 grand, and 411 more, registered to the unemployed, which is the situation at the end of November? Of course, the unemployed are even more so as not all are registered unemployed. What are we talking about? We are talking about new and new economic burdens. There will be no economic growth, we are not talking about the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy. I have heard earlier at the first point that we have discussed today, encouraging signals that this coalition of the Minister of Economy will also support itself when it seeks to privatise, or better put, investors, domestic and foreign investors. We will see and expect this to happen, because otherwise there will be an unanswered question about who will give us the job. Who's gonna give a job to 115 grand to the unemployed? These are the key questions. However, we see media products that normally report on the government's negotiations with social partners and so on, and we regret that a representative of the economy, such as the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, is leaving the negotiations. I'm really sorry, honestly. This Minister, Mr. Restovalšek, was – probably now not to be – a member of the Management Board of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, because there is no one to be in the Slovenian economic space. He was an important manager and so on. And now we have this situation, new and new tax burdens, new bureaucratic barriers to this bound account book and failed government negotiations with the social partners. And Benjamin Franklin said the development of society is based only on two things, entrepreneurship and savings. Where's the business? Where's the savings? When we answer these two questions, we will also answer the question as to where our social development is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u122	Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u123	President, thank you for your word. I believe that by introducing this Article, which regulates cash management, we are also somehow introducing the new tasks of the tax authority and thus bringing the two new records back to the previous century, it is said that during the 1990s and something that, for example, the taxpayers went to the paper shop, bought, then said, the Paraguayan bloc, went to the tax administration, and there the tax officials or employees branded these Paraguayan blocks, and then they were able to operate on the basis of these Paraguayan blocks. In the case of this Article, nothing will be completely different. So he's going to go to some paper store, buy a book of accounts, take it to the financial board. There this book will be confirmed and kept record of the book published and of the debtors. I think this action is funny after 25 years, I'd say that. I can't say otherwise. I think it would be better if we thought in the direction of some greater, more effective control and some incentives that would allow all those in debt to move to e-commerce as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u124	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we propose to delete this Article 5 concerning the issuance of accounts without the use of a computer program or electronic device in cash operations. Why did we decide that? See what this change in cash is all about. Taxpayers who issue invoices without the use of a computer program or electronic device will have to use receipts or invoice forms from the bound account that they will acquire in a free sale, as today a variety of entities will use the receipts and will be confirmed by the tax authority before they are used. This bound account book will contain a certain number in the book of bound accounts to be previously printed, numbered and recorded by the tax authority. The tax authority will keep a record of the books issued by each issuer and a record of the certified books of the accounts by the individual debtor. Now tell me, come on! I think it's funny when I have to read these things. On the one hand, two days ago, we heard a presentation by the new economic minister, who also talked about improving the support environment for small and medium-sized enterprises, about the administrative burden on businesses, and today we are taking on something that adds administrative burden for businesses. For this reason, it seems important that we delete this article. The proposed introduction of this book will not have any effect as regards the suppression of the grey economy, but will further burden smaller companies and ultimately employees on the tax administration or Furs. I therefore propose that we once help the economy and start unloading it. I somehow understand that we do not agree – we would also be burdening the tax – but let us agree, at least in this direction, that we are going together to relieve the administrative burden and help the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u126	The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the proposed amendment, I must say that we do not support it because it eliminates one of the important contents of the bill. However, since it is clear from the discussions so far that there is some inaccuracy or misunderstanding as to how the proposed system is supposed to work, please allow me some further clarifications. Since July last year, when so-called virtual cash registers have been in operation, i.e. when taxpayers receiving cash and cash services payments using computer equipment to issue invoices have had to ensure that this computer equipment does not allow data to change without an audit trail. When the tax authority began to monitor in more detail the way this provision was implemented, it found that individual debtors who had already issued invoices using computer equipment and electronic programs had adapted themselves to tighter controls in order to abandon the use of computer equipment and switched to manually written accounts. Of course, you cannot prohibit this, but you must establish a system that allows you to control even if the debtor chooses to issue the accounts. And that's what we do with this Article 5. The debtor is still free to decide whether to issue an account by means of a computer program or to choose to use a linked account book. And if he decides to use a tied account book, he'll buy it just like he's bought it before. The only thing he will have to do is, before he starts to use this bound account book, to the tax authority, as a rule, electronically, because all business taxpayers are obliged to communicate electronically with the financial administration, to report to the tax administration that he has purchased such an bound account book with order accounts of so much to so much. The Financial Administration will record this and use this information in case of supervision. I have already mentioned in the introduction that we have tried to set up the system by causing as little administrative burden as possible. And I appreciate that the proposed system of validation and the way in which this matter is essentially made possible. When we were preparing solutions, we had a number of different options played together with the financial administration, and this is the one that caused the least costs and the least extra part to the taxpayers. It takes everything into account, the deletion of this Article does not constitute an administrative burden for taxpayers, but rather constitutes a reduction in the possibility of tax control in cash transactions. The results of the work so far have shown good results. Approximately EUR 100 million was collected from July to this day due to the effects of additional control measures. However, the characteristic of such measures is that there is relatively little impact on the individual supervision carried out by the financial management. This requires a large number of controls to achieve such a financial impact. A large number of controls also mean, in some way, encouraging or directing the taxpayers in the direction of choosing to voluntarily pay tax obligations because they know that they will arrive in a relatively short time for supervision. This is why, let's say, tax culture is improving as well. From this perspective, this segment of the fight against the grey economy and avoidance of taxation is also important. Of course, other areas should not be neglected. Today, the so-called espection of labour relations has been mentioned, where we are preparing additional measures or other measures, together with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, but we need some time to prepare and finalize them. Thus, the area of combating the transfer of untaxed money, untaxed assets to tax havens, where a project on the verification of the origin of property is under way, is once again spoken of. In the last period, the results were in order to collect around 10 million more taxes from some of the controls annually, in which case most of the tax on undeclared income. However, unlike this fight against the grey economy, where I said that it takes a lot of control to achieve a certain financial impact, one control is usually very long in these measures. It is a matter of essentially in-depth analysis of the entire assets of an individual debtor, but individual supervision also gives a greater financial gain. Allow me only a brief response to the provisions relating to the implementation of the FATCA Agreement. This is not an agreement to exchange tax information. Tax information is still exchanged through a double taxation agreement, including with America, and is applicable. However, it is an agreement to exchange information on the assets held by the residents of one country of the signatory to the agreement in another country of the parties to the agreement in the accounts of these financial institutions. If such an agreement had not been signed, the Slovenian financial institutions would have been in a worse position to provide their services to US residents because they should account for a tax deduction of 30% of all these assets in the accounts and forward it directly to the US financial administration. This exchange of information allows for a comparable position of such Slovenian financial institutions with financial institutions in other countries, which have also signed an agreement with the United States, and this idea or philosophy of information exchange is spreading. The initiative was taken by the OECD and Slovenia is also actively involved in these activities. I would like to draw attention to just one more matter regarding the so-called flatlists and the statement that they do not need to keep any books. That doesn't quite hold. They do not need to keep a book of costs or expenditure taxed as expenditure is essentially considered to be of some standard level. However, it is also indisputably necessary for these taxpayers to issue invoices and keep proper records of their own revenues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u128	I am opening the list for further discussion. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, chairman. In my debate, I would limit myself only to this Article 5 law, which is also subject to the amendment. As the Secretary of State has already said, in July 2013, we introduced the so-called virtual electronic or tax registers into the Slovenian system, which means that all taxpayers using the computer program to print out invoices had to adjust them by ensuring traceability of each data or any change in data. Through inspection, they then came to the conclusion that the debtors were trying to avoid the use of computer equipment and switched to manual. They themselves have switched to manual billing, which, of course, we cannot prevent. And this is also some kind of bureaucracy by the taxpayers. On the other hand, this Article introduces a measure that applies only to taxable persons who do not use a computer programme. So if this Article 5 is deleted, we reduce the control over this part of the cash operation. That is why we cannot support this amendment. Of course, we are aware that this measure does not solve any other problem, it is the problem of not giving up an account as such at all. However, in the case of the issuance of accounts, it increases the possibility of systematic control of the accounts. Therefore, we consider these proposed bound accounts in our parliamentary group to be a complementary measure that would allow for the transparency of cash transactions, but we are of course aware that in order to increase transparency in the future it will be necessary to introduce the so-called real tax receipts, which will reduce the tax gaps among taxpayers operating in cash. On the Finance Committee, we have been assured by the Government that we can expect this law somewhere in the middle of the year. However, this register of bound accounts will be a measure that will increase the transparency of cash transactions even in cases where there will be no tax registers for certain entities. Once again, if I withdraw this Article, these bound accounts will only be mandatory for those who do not use the computer program, thereby allowing more control over this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u130	Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The amendment that was tabled will not be supported. Let me tell you again. In order to limit undeclared cash transactions and at the same time to enable the performance of the tasks of the tax authority to be more effective, new rules shall be introduced concerning the issuance of invoices without the use of a computer program or electronic device of business entities. Under the current regime, the taxable person may decide on the manner in which the invoices are issued and decide whether or not to use computer programs and electronic devices to issue the invoices. Where invoices are issued without the use of a computer program or electronic device, they may also decide independently on the form of invoices issued. The law governing value added tax only prescribes mandatory data in the account. In the case of taxpayers who issue invoices without the use of a computer program or electronic device, equivalent arrangements will be introduced by this bill. These debtors will have to use the accounts or accounts forms of the tied account to be obtained for free sale before they are used by the tax authority. To this end, I would like to say what I received today, namely, the Chamber of Commerce and Business of Slovenia reports and at the same time begs – I am aware that we would like to have everything touched on the button today, but here they say slightly differently – I quote: "As a large number of independent entrepreneurs still do not use the Internet or have access to it, these taxpayers would not be able to directly receive notices and legal acts in electronic form. For such service, another person, such as the accounting officer, should be authorised, resulting in additional costs incurred by the accounting officer. We propose to introduce a transitional period for the electronic service of all Furs documents to independent entrepreneurs." And they're even proposing a one-year extension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u132	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also start with this letter from the Chamber of Commerce, because it was said here how it would be done through the computer, through the website of the Financial Office. I also have this letter right here, where they want a transitional period for this, up to 31. 12. 2017, which means, in other words, that the statements made by representatives of the Government or representatives of the Government on how everything can be done electronically are not accurate if we have here a letter from the Chamber of Commerce, where they are somehow asking for this transitional period, where this could actually be arranged together. If we continue to look at the law, we can also find that in point 7, a demonstration of public participation in the drafting of the bill, the fifth indent states that the essential opinions, proposals and comments to the public, the essential comments and proposals have been taken into account. This proposal from the Chamber of Commerce seems essential to me, and I do not know if this has been taken into account. Or should we then write that certain things have not been taken into account? However, it is probably possible to agree on what is essential and what is not essential, and of course someone will be able to say you know what, but this letter to the Chamber of Commerce dated 4. However, the 12th is probably irrelevant. I can't agree with that because I'm also interested in what the real situation is here. What is the actual situation with independent entrepreneurs, with legal entities and with all those who have to issue accounts? How many people, how many independent entrepreneurs, how many legal entities are going to issue accounts or invoices in a so-called manual way, is it not electronic? Here I think the first thing that should be – I did not see in the explanation of this information. I believe the Ministry of Finance has it and should probably tell us that. Secondly, what I would like to say and explain is, if we are talking about this agreement with the United States – yes, it is about data transfer, resources and so on. This data is probably important at some stage for tax obligations, but it may not. However, this data is a matter of tax procedure, emphasis is placed on the tax process, which means that it is likely that taxes are involved in some way. When we're talking about a hundred million extra taxes View, I think that the explanation might even be more precise about how much there was an extra tax, although of course nowhere is justified by the individual types of taxes, this is the first time, and the second time, what were the costs, what were the additional costs, because the people from the customs administration were driving around with the van, inspecting the sellers of mushrooms, flowers, candles and so on. [[...]] So how much are these costs compared to tax evasion? Tax evasion without penalty, please, because there is a big difference between taxation and punishment. While some are equalizing punishment and taxation, there is a large difference, both substantive and formal. So I'd like to ask you here for further information from a government representative. Here are also the virtual tax receipts that we already have and the real tax receipts that Slovenia will introduce, I think the colleague said, in mid-2015. Bravo! For the first time, the Minister is against me, I'm told. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, at the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Offices Act is likely to be in different variants at least two years after the deadlines, or on a tax administration, on a financial administration. So you don't have to wait for interest. However, if this is more or less a bluff because we talked about these tax offices in the country, forgive me before the Party of Mir Cerar was established. A few years earlier, we had talked about this, and a few years earlier, all the regulations had been drawn up, including the regulations under the law. Of course they were against it, but the question was whether it was only for large companies or only for small businesses, or only for small ones, but not for large ones, and so on. Here too, of course, there will be great influence and lobbying in this regard, and some will say that they have regulated accounting tax, others do not have it and so on and so on. But if there was a real interest here, we would have had it in Slovenia a long time ago. But if there is no interest, then we are comforted that this will happen every year, and maybe next year a new customer will be sitting here again, and this one will also say that next year she will have the cash registers and she will put them into her programme, and this will be the main issue that we will introduce the tax box in Slovenia in this country. Come on! There are many other more important matters, and tax collectors will not again bring a magical solution so that all taxes will be paid so that there will be no grey economy and so on. Look, this is the virtuality that we can live in, that we can talk about, but it's actually unrealistic, because it's, after all, able to shut that tax box out of electricity, but it doesn't work for a while, but it's back on again, and I don't know how many bills, but I don't know what. It also has additional power, as well as that, so that the technology is very large in front of the tax registers, and I would therefore ask that it is not the main measure of this government to be cashiers. [[...]] With regard to the provisions themselves on these additional accounts or complications or the validation of accounts. Here we see that many independent entrepreneurs, members of the Chamber of Commerce do not have computer equipment, do not use electronic commerce. Then this validation over the Internet will probably not work and so on, but it will probably have to be done manually, probably someone will come to the tax office to confirm these accounts and so on and so forth. Look, if we all had electronics, then we wouldn't need this tax book at all. Because, as I understand it, the tax book will be electronically validated through the tax administration. But why if they have an electronic business? They don't need it! But perhaps the reality is now another one and we do not have a real state and we probably do not have the actual situation of the smallest ones, those who have started the business, those who do not have enough money, those who have been given 4 000 euros by the Ministry of Labour to start the business, and some have succeeded, but some have failed, and some have difficulty paying 200 euros per month to the accountant or bookkeeping and so on. That's what I'm talking about! And these do not have to be extra burdened administratively or bureaucraticly, because in total, they do not bring as much tax as they do, that is a minimum. The cost of tax administration with these is much higher. If the tax administration or the financial administration were to focus on the large ones, and on the transfer prices, and on the transfer of profits, it would be much more profitable than if it were dealing with mushrooms, candlesticks, florists and so on at different holidays, cultural, any holiday in the country. Of course, then it will be in all the newspapers and all the media that the tax administration has punished with 5,000 Euros of someone selling candles. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this may be some psychological effect, but it's not an organized way of collecting taxes. But at that point, it can encourage five more flower vendors to pay the tax quickly because they will fear that they too will come to the newspaper that day. But this may be a complementary matter, but it cannot be based on the whole strategy, the whole tax collection policy, because this will not make the budget much bigger. Once again, the cost of collecting taxes on these taxpayers is higher than their earnings, according to my information or my estimates. I'll make an estimate that this won't be some sort of definitive information. In short, this measure, which you are now proposing, is actually unnecessary. If someone doesn't have an electronic business, they won't be able to do electronic business, they won't be able to issue electronic accounts, they won't be able to confirm them electronically, but they're going to have to go to the tax office and there, I don't know, stand in line, count whatever he's going to do there. You come to the opposite of yourself here, if you say on one side that he's going to do it electronically, he's going to electronically confirm the accounts. And, of course, as a result of this additional administration, additional bureaucracy also means a deterioration of competitiveness, meaning that more people will be in the employment establishment as members of the Chamber of Commerce or members of those who actually want to produce something in this country. There may be more entrepreneurs in neighbouring countries because of this, and there may also be more companies in neighbouring countries that will pay taxes to another budget. This is because they pay taxes to another budget. With regard to all these dilemmas, I think that the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal is that these tax books simply be abandoned because there will be problems and problems with them and that you will do something for the economy. At least make sure that you do not complicate business matters further administratively and bureaucraticly and that this makes the economy easier to breathe. And we will also discuss measures that will increase competitiveness, not measures that reduce competitiveness at any moment. And that we will not talk about reducing taxes only when we have a minister at a hearing that everyone will say yes would lower taxes and reduce the administrative obligation. On the other hand, it's completely different. Let's move from words to actions. I've said this many times in this national council, and it looks free.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u134	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u135	Thank you, President, for your word. In the morning we received the Minister of Economy and full of sweet words and hopes for what to do. Among other things, its main mantra was not new taxes, nor was it an additional burden on the economy and crafts. In three hours, tops per head, two laws, 30 million new savings, because the budget needs to be filled. In both introductory presentations, the Secretary of State himself said we need extra money. We will take it from the economy, from crafts and from all citizens. Now we come with a third law, where in addition to financial exploitation we give another administrative obstacle to crafts. It's a really nice day for the economy. In the morning they get a minister, and in three hours they're already thinking about whether we need a minister like that who says the end of bureaucracy, the end of taxes, and then the government coalition is doing the opposite. In short, I think you have a serious problem. First are words and actions, which I repeat all the time. And secondly, I think, as the Secretary of State said, you have an even worse problem. One is the theory, the other is the practice. I think that colleague Andrej – who has read at least a little of his CV, but at least a little in practice, could only commend his speech. And instead of talking about less taxes, less excise taxes, less bureaucracy, you're challenging the minister with three laws today. I don't know how the minister's gonna sleep today. He'll say Super, I've become a minister, but look, the coalition MPs have already killed me with three new laws. I don't know how he's gonna be credible when he's talking to craftsmen, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, I don't know who. They'll call him Look, Minister, you can promise us, it'll all light up, and then there'll be practice and this government coalition, and the roller coaster will crush me. And indeed, with such measures as this law, with the new bureaucracy, you will not only run out of foreigners to pay taxes here, you will run out of Slovenians. I said the next thing this morning. Yesterday I was at the meeting of the Chamber of Commerce and they said, "Look, because of the new taxes, because of the new bureaucracy we will leave Slovenia." And really, what normal citizen wants to give 50 percent to the state, plus two hours a day sitting behind the computer to complete everything, or some kilo of paper with him to carry it all in physical form? I hope that the coalition Members have read this Article 5. I must say, poor craftsmen. What is expected of them! They'll have to save 10 years. Finally, another masterpiece that we are used to in all marriage proposals, for which people then blame us Members, we have no contact with these measures. It reads: "The Minister responsible for finance shall specify in more detail the content, form and method of certifying the bound accounts of accounts." At the end of the previous term they had carriers in agriculture – this will save Slovenian forests! And they found officials and made me not to say anything about Slovenian forests. Then they had energy cards under the Energy Act. And once again, officials with a submarital act, they did everything they could, except do something smart for this country. And now we have the same measure that we will now solve in the fight against the grey economy and the craftsmen will face the hours and hours of trouble again when they say, "What are you Members doing there?" You're giving us all the stupid things, and we have to live out of it. In short, what we're saying here in theory, unfortunately, some people in practice also have a lot of problems. That is why we have also drafted an amendment in the SDS Group of Members, because obviously we have two problems. One is the problem between theory and practice, and the other is clearly that there are two completely contradictory understandings of the burden of trade and economy between the work of the opposition and the coalition. You say that this measure will make the economy less grey and red tape will not be known. I would like to hear in six months a craftsman say that the Grey Economy will no longer be due to this action, and we also have no additional bureaucratic obstacles. And we're going to hunt little witches, little chicken thieves, and the country is going to go down on the other side. In the end, I think I understand why we are today in the law that we are adopting, so these three laws. This is only part of the question that will be paid by all citizens, especially craftsmen and the economy, at the expense of a successful agreement between the Government and the public sector trade unions. You made a good deal, and we're all gonna pay for it. And I really suggest to the government, as well as to coalition parties, that you go once every three months to the field, choose a region, and meet the public sector and the private sector there, and they will tell you firsthand what the problems are. And putting such nonsense into a marriage means trouble for them. Instead of solving them, we're giving them problems. No wonder people say we don't need a parliament. Well, if we're adopting such laws, I'm sorry, well, they really don't need us. No craftsman needs an MP who'll call him Sam's expenses, and you're working extra hours for me with red tape. As far as this famous financial administration is concerned. I come from an area where I have a lot of colleagues who used to be part of the customs administration, but now they're under this super Fursom, but in practice these guys have a lot of problems. They became SUVs for those 600, 700 euros. Officials from the tax administration are still nice in warm offices, more and more in those offices – sometimes there were two in the office, now there are four – and the boys in the field are working. And they're hunting a candlestick who forgot to report two candles, gobbers, and I don't know what they're after, these little thieves. At the same time, these officials call them No, no, John, but you can't go there. And he asks why not? You can't go, it's the answer. How can this field man at Furs be motivated to hunt not only small hens, but also large ones, for the 600 euros?Oh, my God! Why? Every little craftsman gives him a chase, says Peace to me. And with this law, and above all with this article, which we want to give up, there will be no less grey economy, and much more bureaucracy. In short, you are going in the wrong direction by what the Minister of the Economy has promised, and you are undermining his bold steps already in the good three hours of your operation. If you respect at least a little of his words and his hopes, you will probably also support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u136	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much again for your word. First of all, I would like to focus on the comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. First of all, let me point out that the OZS comment does not refer to receipt blocks or to the bound account book, nor does it refer to the possibility of electronic validation of the bound accounts that I have mentioned. This comment concerns electronic service. On the basis of the comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which we received in the public debate on this bill, we suspended the electronic service measure originally provided for from 1 January 2015 until 1 January 2016 and allowed those who want to participate in the preparation to participate in the pilot project and to receive the notified decision of the tax authority at the same time electronically and in paper format. I would also like to point out this part of the comments of the Chamber of Commerce that they are aware that those tradesmen who themselves do not use the World Wide Web or use computer programs are required to comply with their tax obligations, which they must already comply with electronically under the applicable legislation, that is, to invest in tax accounts and tax returns, in order to empower another person to do so, as a rule, their accounting officer. In this way, the claim contained in the material that all comments received in public were duly or largely taken into account by the public concerned. It is true that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry here stood for a two-year transitional period and the Chamber of Commerce for a one-year period. Our assessment was that a one-year transition period was sufficient. So let me get back to the cash business and to Article 5. I was asked how many of those companies, those economic operators, will issue accounts in this way. I don't know. Because this way of issuing accounts is defined as a voluntary form of the way in which the accounts are issued. Any undertaking or taxable person may decide whether to issue invoices by means of a computer program or for manual invoices. Its free decision is one of the options offered. But there are also those who will have to use both because of the nature of their work and will be able to. Costs of supervision. Public servants, my colleagues at the Ministry of Finance, at the financial administration, are employed in order to carry out surveillance procedures. Some exercise supervision in offices, others supervise documentation and financial statements in companies, others exercise control over the physical movement of goods or the issuance of accounts. In the second and third groups, both are on the ground. Each with his own knowledge and each in his own way. Things aren't comparable, they just give the whole thing the right result. The total cost of the work of the financial administration amounts to less than 2% of the revenue collected for the state budget, and we need to know that, in addition to what the financial administration collects for the state budget, it will collect another 2 billion for municipal budgets and 4 billion for health bills, so forgive me, but I have lost a number out of my head, a few billion in pension bills. However, if we add all these public finances together, the cost of the work of the financial administration is significantly lower. How much of the cost of these measures in the area of combating the grey economy has been incurred? See, these people are employed for this purpose, and their activity or inactivity would in any event result in costs to the financial administration. And we can't attribute a salary or a gas used to take a vehicle to a specific place of control, control of the grey economy, but control as such. It seems to me that this kind of question is actually just drawing attention away from the real problem. The real problem is whether we are ready to recognize the mosaic of various measures that address the various instances of avoidance of taxes and the grey economy, and each of these segments, each of these mosaic stones must be tackled by its own actions. Some need legal changes, others need organizational changes. With regard to the situation of employees in the financial administration, and they pointed out that irregularities should be here or that controls should not be allowed in individual cases, I ask you for very specific information, because only on the basis of concrete data can concretely be taken, and we will take concrete action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u138	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I would certainly like to comment on the words of the representative of the Government, state secretary of mags. Matey Vraničar as to the efficiency of the tax administration and also as regards the data it actually provided. Among other things, it stated that less than 2% of the state budget is allocated to the salaries of financial administrations, or that, given the other cash, health, pension and so much less. Look, 96, 97 percent, and the Secretary of State knows that, all taxes are collected after deduction. Companies pay so much and so much money on their own in the state budget, and this is due to the so-called deduction tax, all the advances, contributions and so on. And this control, this control usually takes place, we can say, in the office. Inspections, data – the financial administration must have segmented these data, and each financial administration probably has them, I think Slovenian too. These data relate to inspections, the cost of inspection and the amount of seized. We know how many inspectors we have. We didn't have enough of them a while ago. Now we've combined this with the customs administration, maybe enough. We are talking about inspections and the effectiveness of inspections, not all taxes. So this information can be quite misleading. The National Assembly is taking all the income savings into contributions for all of us here and for someone else. There may also be a need for some inspection if necessary, but these data are likely to be constant. The tax authority gets about the same amount over and over again. Every month he knows how much of this is happening, and if there were too many oscillations that the National Assembly would not suddenly pay those charges, then they would probably come here and ask why these taxes were not paid. So there's a lot of separation to be made here. I am interested in inspection data, and this data is about 2% and this is a pretty misleading matter. Secondly, it is a segmentation, and here we all know that we are talking about the cost-effectiveness of tax procedures. After all, this is also one of the starting points of the tax procedure and the tax service. And he knows who he's controlling. You should know. In particular, those in whom the seizure is as large as possible shall be monitored and where the ratio between the costs of inspection and seizure shall be as high as possible. I have asked the question that the question is whether the proceeds from those that the tax administration then launches into the public, such as candle sellers, volcanoers, I don't know, I mentioned earlier some others, such that it actually means a less grey economy, or whether these people should be directed elsewhere. Data is supposed to be different, so this is not about any ignorance and so on. The second thing I would like to say in this regard is that we need to look at the inspection potential that actually exists, especially for those with millions of dollars, but the tax is not collected. Especially with those, and also with the regulations. Above all, there is a need to see this if the tax administration wants to be successful. And if we're talking about the grey economy now, what is the gray economy? So this case is probably very controversial here, too. With regard to this letter from the Chamber of Commerce, mentioned also by the distinguished Secretary of State. Here's date four. 12. I think this marriage has a previous date, and a four. 12th, that's what today, the Chamber of Commerce sent us. But this letter just proves that a large number of independent entrepreneurs still do not use the Internet or have access to it. That's what it says. That's what it says. And if he doesn't have access, he probably can't even confirm these accounts on the Internet. That's what I'm saying. That's all I'm saying. And then it makes no sense that on the Internet these accounts are confirmed if they have to, probably if they can't do otherwise, come in somehow physically, however, if they don't have it. Or I don't know how the tax administration will bring them home to any such entrepreneur. In this regard, it is likely that the government or the Ministry of Finance could obtain accurate information as to how many of these, if the Chamber of Commerce says so, are larger. Probably behind this text is a number that would probably come in preparing changes to this law, to actually know how many people actually don't have if they really don't, if that's what they're saying here. So I think that this data, if not the other, is an estimate. The Ministry of Finance is working on different assessments, and it is likely that they could also make an assessment of how many of them are actually issuing accounts in this way, because they are also issuing them in this way today. And the tax administration has this information, at least they should have it if it's controlling. So I'm surprised that this data here today has not been presented as much as it is, regardless of whether it works in both ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u140	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I would like to find here that we all share a common interest in bridging the grey economy, in order to collect not as much tax as possible, but those taxes that are required by law. When we're trying to do something in this area, I can see a little bit of a difference. I have received a feeling from many debaters, including a respected colleague of Shirtzl, that we are doing nothing to make this matter miserable, that there will be no effect. More to do damage. I find it difficult to accept this, I find it difficult to accept it for a simple reason, because I see it as my interpretation, but in this bound ledger of accounts a transitional period, but, however, if one comparison can be given, one example I give, one imports into the highway of tax registers. And we'll get these tax receipts in the next year. I'd like to have them before September, but we'll get them. We burden the craftsmen, we burden the small economic operators – I don't know if it's the same. I don't know if there's anything essential about them that changes in terms of additional burdens, financial and administrative. Last but not least, the proposal of this regulation, which we have before us, also speaks of simplifications in the field of service, simplifications in the field of enforcement, not least the exchange of data with the United States of America and so on and so forth. I personally assess this – colleague Kovačič also said that the uniform position of the Desus Group is that we will support this law – like that effort, like that effort or the way to stifle the grey economy, to step on the fingers of cheaters, those who are changing who are faking. Finally, inspections have also shown that about half of the debtors have subsequently changed – I have no data, to what extent and how much – my accounts, I hope, falsified, and have suffered damage to all those honest, correct legal entities that have worked according to the rules. In short, I won't be too long. I estimate that the preparation of the proposal, the amendment of the existing proposal is in the right direction and that the results will be shown. As it is said, the tax registers are the same thing that we have written in our already mentioned coalition agreement so many times. I believe that we will get them and that this will be one more step further towards regulating the situation in the tax area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u142	Are you going to sign in or is it just a replica? Replica, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I would certainly like to replicate or further explain to my colleague the question he raised. Whether we are now doing harm to all these people by this law, you have rhetorically asked the question. Yeah, my opinion is yes. Certainly not a good thing. I do not think that this will make the grey economy angry, because it is not the last time that this solution can be avoided very quickly. I'm not going to talk about how and why here. I'm going to talk about it. Anyone who looks closely at this proposal shall find that this can be avoided. And secondly, this represents an exclusive administrative issue, an administrative restriction for those who are most pro-pulsive in Slovenia and who should work with as few administrative restrictions as possible. And once again, because you mentioned the tax receipts; earlier it was colleague Ban. Look, that's not the point. The objective can be a better financial result, more revenue and so on. Tax money is a means. And once again, they've been talked about for six years, and we could have them long ago if we wanted them. I already told you that. You have the laws written all you want, including the rules. Ask the government, she'll tell you. There's no problem with the law. So you don't have to wait that long. But you're not doing anything good with it, you're doing damage before.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u144	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I don't see any interest in the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 5. 12. 2014, in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners within the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary from the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u145	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Act amending and supplementing the Aliens Act, which was adopted on 3 April 2014, introduces a uniform permit for work and residence which replaces the granting of temporary residence permits for reasons of employment or work. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aliens Act has also laid down, as one of the conditions for granting a single residence permit and work, an agreement on a uniform authorisation under the law governing the employment and work of foreigners. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for the preparation of the law will not be able to prepare this law by 1 January 2015, so that it will not be adopted and enforced. Consequently, it will not be possible to implement the amended provisions of the Law on Foreigners relating to a single procedure and a single authorisation with effect from 1 January 2015. This would create a legal void which would have an irreparable impact on the country as no third-country national would have been able to obtain a temporary residence permit for that reason as of 1 January 2015. The provision amended by the proposal is valid from 29 April 2014 and should be amended before the date of application of certain provisions, i.e. on 1 January 2015, when the provisions will no longer be amended. For the same reasons, it is also proposed that the law be adopted following an urgent legislative procedure, as it must be enforced before that date. The dynamics of the adoption of a law regulating the employment and work of foreigners, which has been transmitted by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, are as follows. There will be a public debate by the end of this year on the proposal for this law. Cross-cutting coordination and treatment on the Economic and Social Council will take place in January 2015 and the law will be dealt with in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in mid-February. The Ministry plans a deadline for the adoption of the Employment and Work Act by June 2015 at the latest and for the entry into force on 1 September 2015. Perhaps just a few more words about the proposal made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to this law. With regard to the proposal to temporarily issue an agreement on a uniform permit for work and residence in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, it is necessary to clarify once again that the establishment of a single procedure or the manner in which the consent of the authority responsible for employment should be given grave attention to the system regime. The Aliens Act provides for the entry and residence of foreigners, and one of the corresponding residence addresses in accordance with the law is a uniform permit allowing a foreigner to enter the country, to work or to carry out his work and to reside lawfully. The employment and work of foreigners is regulated by a separate law, as some foreigners who also access the Slovenian labour market are excluded from the application of the Single Authorisation Directive and their work or employment is regulated by the Employment and Work Act of foreigners which systematically regulates all areas of employment and work of foreigners. The issuing of a single licence is provided for in the agreement of two different bodies, namely the administrative unit which accepts the application, and the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which, at the request of the administrative unit, decides to give consent to the single authorisation and the administrative unit then decides to issue the single authorisation. However, the way in which a uniform authorisation is to be granted must be established in a systematic way, i.e. in legislation regulating the employment and work of foreigners. In order to regulate the issue of a uniform permit in the law governing the residence of foreigners, the legal matter of both areas should be merged into one law, which would mean, in addition to the change of the system regime, also organisational changes. The Aliens Act cannot regulate the giving of consent to the issuing of a single licence, as in the case of the giving of consent to a substantively demanding procedure, which must be specified in the law, it must be carried out by a body which is legally designated and adequately qualified and which has all the support for decision-making. Finally, the drafter also decided on the regulation so far. [[End of discussion warning sign]] arrangements in other Member States of the European Union where most have maintained a separate decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u146	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u147	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its 3rd meeting, on 2 December 2014, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal for an urgent procedure. On this proposal, the Committee of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 10th session. 11. 2014 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee took note of the material, namely the draft law which was published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur on 27. 11. 2014 and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 21. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Boštjan Šefic, stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the provisions on the uniform procedure and the issuance of a uniform residence and work permit were adopted by the amendment to the Foreigners Act, which entered into force in April 2014. With the proposal of the law, the Government wants to prevent legal voids and irreparable damage from occurring as from 1. 1. 2015 could not issue uniform licences combining both the residence permit and the work permit. Since its issue is linked to the appropriate adaptation of the legislation in the field of employment and work of foreigners, it is appropriate to suspend the application of those amended provisions of the law relating to that substance. According to the applicant, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities was given the opportunity to prepare the proposal for consideration at the government meeting in February. As the deadline for the entry into force of the law on the employment of foreigners and their work is foreseen in June 2015. Ms Špela Macek Gustin, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, stressed that the draft law had been examined in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. She explained that the proposal provided for a further delay in the application of the provisions, which meant that the specific provisions would not apply until one and a half years after its entry into force. For such a long period of suspension of the application of an arrangement, the rule of law is disputed. It proposed an additional explanation or a question of the dynamics of adapting the Employment and Work Act to justify the delay in the application of the provisions of the Aliens Act. As a possible solution, it also proposed to shorten the application of the provisions of the Aliens Act. Some opinions and suggestions from members of the Committee were expressed in the discussion on individual articles. The opposition group of members of the SDS pointed out that in this case the application of the provisions of this law was unduly postponed, which is problematic in terms of the rule of law, and they suggested that the deadline should be reduced to a minimum. They also considered that there was no appropriate explanation in relation to the proposal for a law. They also pointed out that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities had not prepared a legislative proposal in time and had presented all the procedures for amending it. A member of the committee of the ZaAB Group felt that the law should be adopted, while re-emphasising the responsibility of the Ministry that it had not drawn up the law. In the debate, State Secretary Boštjan Šefic agreed that the postponement was not welcome, and a last warning from the European Commission could soon be expected, so he called on the members of the committee to adopt the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. As no amendments were proposed to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u148	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jani Möderndorfer is the Allied Alliance Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and my colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to read your point of view and tell you what this law says. I will draw attention to one fact – that today the Secretary of State could begin a sentence like this: Today we are considering the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, which I will not implement and will not introduce. Indeed, from April of last year until today, the government has spent several months in particular not doing its homework. It is sad that today we are listening to the Secretary of State, who has to carry out a kind of task and in some way excuse what is not really an excuse. It is even more sad that today the Minister for Labour does not sit here to explain very clearly the reasons why she did not do her homework and from April to today. And why don't we have what the address is talking about and what the Secretary of State is saying is that we will implement – a single certificate for work and foreign residence. In fact, there are 78 Members sitting in Parliament today for the week. And she is responsible for the Minister of Labour, but she must be excused by the Secretary of State for Home Affairs and made up, as my colleague, a colorful figure of some sentences, who say nothing. It just doesn't say there'll be nothing. And I regret and regret in the Alliance that we must watch this play and this show in the National Assembly and act and listen to sentences that say nothing. In the Alliance we will support this change, but until next time we expect answers, who is responsible for the failure to perform the task, because the collapse of the government in the country is not an answer for something that the same minister in the previous government and the current government is doing. If I were to be a foreign minister, we'd still understand; that's not the way of excuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u150	The word is given by the Group of the Mir Cerar Party, Mrs Erika Deklava.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u151	Honorable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act, which entered into force 29. 4. 2014, contains the provisions of two Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. For today's treatment, it is particularly important that the directive introduces the so-called principle all in one place and that it issues a single permit for third-country nationals. The purpose of the Act was primarily to remove administrative barriers to obtaining residence and work permits, as a so-called uniform procedure is introduced by transposition of the Directive. A foreigner and a third-country national may, once the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aliens Act has been implemented by one application, obtain a single residence permit and work permit in an administrative unit by one procedure and one document. The arrangements will apply to all foreigners who will apply for a single authorisation for reasons of employment or work for foreigners who will apply for a single licence to perform seasonal work, to perform work as a self-employed person and to provide services on a cross-border basis as posted worker and as a day-to-day migrant. The preparation of this law at the Ministry of the Interior was very difficult. A series of discussions and consultations were held with all interested public. The implementation of the procedures for issuing so-called uniform residence and work permits, which combines both residence permits and work permits, is linked to the adoption of a law on employment, self-employment and work of foreigners, which has not yet been prepared and adopted, so the provisions governing the single procedure and the uniform residence and work permit will not be implemented by 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed amendment to the Aliens Act, which we are considering, amends the application of the provisions relating to the uniform procedure and the uniform residence and work permit and is applicable from 1. 1. 2015 translate to 1. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If the application of the provisions of the Aliens Act had not been postponed, no third-country national could have obtained a temporary residence permit. We are aware that this is a demanding process, both in terms of agreement with the Economic and Social Council and in terms of the implementation or transfer of certain tasks from the Employment Office to administrative units, which will also be responsible for providing information to employers and workers on labour market needs. Direct implementation requires adequate skills to provide users with the widest information and quality services. The proposed amendment to the Law on Foreigners should already be adopted in order to bring the Slovenian acquis into line with the directives of the European Union. The Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has advocated that the proposal for a new law on employment, self-employment and work of foreigners will be sent to the government procedure by the end of 2014, and could enter into force by the end of June 2015. For these reasons, we will unanimously support the draft law in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u152	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u153	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! That this moment will be clear and clear, what we are talking about: we are talking about a proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, by urgent procedure. So today we're going to decide to change. We are talking about a change that has entered into force 29. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It would be fair to make it clear that with these changes you are saving only the complicated government or one of the ministries. Those responsible, in this case, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities led by Anja Kopač Dark have simply not done their job, and today we are literally forced to accept these changes just because someone has not done their job. I would like to stress, my fellow Members and colleagues, that the Ministry has not done its job. In doing so, as has already been said today, let me remind you that apologies or excuses for changing governments in the meantime do not hold back in this case, as the ministry is also headed by the same minister in this government, I stress, Mrak the Ripper. In the coalition contract, you wrote that your basic starting points and the principle of the functioning of this government are responsible and transparent solutions to problems and finding the best solutions for a person as an individual, for individual social groups and for the country as a whole. We're wondering where the responsibility is. Is it possible that a ministry that should be responsible for its wrongdoing, perhaps even incompetence, today bears this responsibility to the National Assembly by forcing us into unreasonable and bad marital changes? Maybe this is doing a transparent solution to the problems of your coalition contract? That this direction or way of solving the problems that have arisen is not the right way, not only an opinion of the opposition, respected, but also warned you about the wrong path by the Legal and Legislative Service. In fact, a few days before the marriage novelty or its individual provisions should enter into force, you simply change it and make this application unreasonablely prolonged, this time to 1. 9. 2015, and only because, all this time, a well-known minister, a well-known ministry, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, was unable to properly prepare its legislation. However, you know, this wrong path or way or approach to solving problems is not as simple and insignificant as it may seem at first sight. Or when you press your buttons in a few minutes and the matter will be over for you. Your way of solving it has concrete negative consequences. Your way of adopting or amending laws is simply to say that we have certain matters regulated in accordance with EU rules and implementation is of secondary importance. And if it's all good luck, write it down in another declaration. You are violating the rule of law and further weakening confidence in the rule of law, which is already at a critical point. To those who are touched by and benefit from the law, you take this advantage unjustifiably only because one of the ministers has not done his job. And one more thing. There was no assurance – even more, the Minister did not appear at the meeting – that he would actually be 1. 9. the date when things will be arranged as they should be. We cannot support such changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party in such a way. I'm afraid not in that way. At least when you press your buttons, I would ask you to for once imagine that such paths are simply not right and are not good for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u154	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u155	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Aliens Act is one of those laws in which many directives are transposed due to the common common immigration policy. The drafting government states that 13 directives have been transposed into the national legal order, the Council Decision of the EU and 6 EU regulations are also implemented under the law. In April 2014, a new Law on Foreigners was adopted, which had the task of also transferring to Slovenia a directive which requires Member States to regulate a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State and a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a Member State who are nationals of third-country nationals who are in the territory of an EU Member State with a view to employment or work, providing for a uniform procedure and issuing a uniform residence and work permit. This novel was intended to put this system into operation as from 1 January 2015. The Government now notes that it will not be possible to implement this, and proposes to move the deadline to 1. 9. 2015, because otherwise there could be a legal void as with 1. 1. 2015 No third-country national could obtain a temporary residence permit. The reason for this deadline is the non-admission of a new law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners, as mentioned several times. However, it is not possible to overlook the fact that the main reason for the delay is to seek appropriate solutions for the implementation of the single authorisation procedure and consequently the most appropriate administrative and administrative solution, which will lead to the simplest and effective single authorisation procedure. The transposition of the complex content of the provisions of the Directive into these two laws requires a lot of coordination and the search for the best solutions. At the same time, we cannot pass on the fact that we had early elections and preparations for a new government, which consequently means lost time in coordination. In our view, however, in order to avoid such situations in the future, ministries which are responsible for implementing Directives and, last but not least, laws should be linked, previously harmonised and laws passed simultaneously. Finally, let me mention that the Social Democrats, on the basis of all the above-mentioned laws, will be supported by the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u156	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u157	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The current Aliens Act introduced a uniform residence permit and a work permit to compensate for the temporary residence permit on grounds of employment or work while allowing the alien to obtain both residence permit and work permit in one proceeding. As one of the conditions for issuing a uniform residence permit and work permit, the applicable law provides for the consent to a uniform authorisation under the law governing the employment and work of foreigners. As this law, as assessed by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, will not be implemented until 1 January 2015, the implementation of the amended provisions of the Law on Foreigners relating to the Single Procedure and the Single Authorisation will not be possible on this date. This would therefore mean that, as from 1 January 2015, single licences could not yet be issued and, at the same time, temporary residence permits could no longer be issued for reasons of employment or work. With the creation of that legal void, there would be irreparable consequences for the country as no third-country national could obtain a temporary residence permit on 1 January. Thus, the proposal for a new law introduces a later application of certain provisions of the recently amended law, which should be in force as early as 1 January 2015. In the Desus Group, we will support the amendment in the hope that the Ministry of Labour will carry out its work and draw up with all seriousness the Employment and Work Law for Foreigners by the deadline by which today we are delaying the application of the amended provisions of the Aliens Act relating to the issuance of a single procedure and a single permit for the residence and work of foreigners.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u158	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected and respected! The proposed law is only adopted for one reason, and this is because the Ministry of Labour has unfortunately failed to prepare amendments to the Employment and Work Act, although there are more reasons for change. There are also those that are actually binding. The field of foreign regulation is, of course, a very important area, even because, for example, it is around the world — some statistics that also affect this matter — have displaced more and more people. At the end of 2014, there were 51.2 million people around the world. The main culprit is the endless war conflicts, and most of these displaced people come from Syria and Afghanistan, which are key hotspots today, third from Somalia, and also the situation in Ukraine. We know that the situation and rights of foreigners in our country are governed by the Foreigners Act, which we are considering today, in the work relating to the uniform residence and work permit. The April Law on Foreigners introduced a single residence permit and a work permit, the main purpose of which is to simplify procedures and obtain the necessary permits for foreigners in one place. It is expected to start with a new year, and this amendment will delay for a further nine months. However, the reason for such an extension is, as we have heard many times today, that the Ministry of Labour has not done its job. From April to today, they have failed to prepare the necessary amendments to the Employment and Work Act. At this point, I would like to draw attention to the 2013 Report on Migration, International Protection and Inclusion, on the seventh page, where the Directorate writes: "In 2013, most of the work on legal migration was focused in particular on drafting amendments and supplementing the Foreign Law." What the hell were they doing?Oh, my God! As we heard at the board meeting, the main culprit was the change of government. We've heard this a number of times today, but it's not just the fact that the Minister is still the same. The thing is, both Secretaries are still the same. We know it's not the minister who's writing the laws, but it's the staff at the Ministry, and they haven't switched with the government. I do not think that this argument is sufficient to justify the failure of this law to prepare or amend it. The situation we have today is thus unacceptable in the United Left. For we have a law that is in force, but is not yet in force, which lays down the procedure and rights of foreigners when they obtain a residence and work permit, but they will not be able to exercise these rights for at least 17 months, just because someone has not done what they should. That such procedures should be simplified and made more effective, the Ombudsman also points out in her 2013 report, where he critically mentions very long-term decision-making procedures for obtaining such permits. That such a long period of suspension of the application of an arrangement in the light of the rule of law was disputed, our SPS also warned, but its proposal that at least the deadline for implementation should be reduced was not taken into account. In addition, it noted that such a long period was disputed even in terms of non-compliance with the acquis of the European Union, as the amendments to the Law on Foreigners of April 2014 were actually prepared on the basis of two European directives. In short, because we believe that it is essential that such procedures relating to the regulation of the status of foreigners are swift, efficient and simple, we cannot support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners prepared by the Government, because its effect is just the opposite, and we are working to get these things resolved faster and with our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u160	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u161	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, the proposed amendment to the Foreigners Act will not be supported or opposed. Let me give you a brief explanation. The last amendment to the Aliens Act decided to merge the residence permit and work permit into one procedure, that is to say in the process of obtaining a uniform residence and work permit. The deadlines for issuing a single residence permit and the work of foreigners from the previous 90 to 60 days have also been reduced. Such solutions are to be applied from 1. 1. 2015 onward, and both of these changes, we welcomed the Christian Democrats. A single residence and work permit burdens state bureaucrat authorities in two separate procedures, but also entails an administrative burden for foreigners themselves who are employed in our country. With the current amendment, the deadline for implementing these solutions is once again incomprehensiblely extended for eight months, as the amendments should only apply from 1. 9. 2015 onwards. I stress, in New Slovenia – we consider Christian Democrats to be an unreasonable, unreasonable extension. But the reason for the postponement of the application of these provisions of the law was entirely on the side of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which we have already heard from the various speakers, which has not prepared the necessary amendments and additions to the Employment and Work Act in due time, despite the fact that since the last amendment of the Foreigners Act was in force until the date of the amendment to be applied, it has been over for eight months. This fact points to an unacceptable and irresponsible approach and the work of the competent ministry, and we expect a thorough explanation from the Minister. On this site, as on the committee, I regret that the competent minister at the meeting is not present to explain why this has occurred. The replacement of the government cannot be an excuse for the untimely fulfilment of this ministry's obligations, since both the Minister and the Secretary of State in the previous government and the current government. And also the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out in its opinion the consequences of this delay, which leads to an increasing confidence in legal certainty in our country. The legislative and legal service also pointed out that we have the opportunity to extend this period not for nine months, but only for three months, and then we did not take them into account on the committee. The New Slovenia Group will not support the bill. In fact, it is a silence for the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, which obviously has not done its tasks, and for which there is no excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-07.ana.u162	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 12. 2014, in the context of the vote. I hereby interrupt this item of the agenda and also the 7th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
