ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Žgajner, Ms. Tina Komel, Mrs. Irena Tavčar, mag. Leila Hercegovac by 16:00, Mr Jože Velinja by 11 a.m., Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Branko Ficko, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Richard Braniselj and Mr Marko Pavlisic from 18:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. At the time of the day, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act in the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I could give the floor to a representative of the Government, but they are not in the Chamber right now. That's why we're moving to the board. In fact, the proposal for a law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Alenka Pavlič to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u2	Good morning! Mr. President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 14th session. 5. 2014 treated the above-mentioned proposal as a parent labour force. The Chair's College is at the 90th session of the 25th session. 3. 2014 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, the Union of Consumer Associations of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the letter proposing amendments to the Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the position of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology on Articles 1, 3, 5, 6, 9 and 23. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants to the law submitted within a time limit. In an additional explanation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service warned that the Consumer Protection Act, with many amendments and additions, was becoming opaque and difficult to understand. With regard to the amendment to Article 1, he pointed out that the paragraph relating to public auctions was missing and that the amendment to Article 3 pointed to possible difficulties in implementation in practice. He also gave a warning on the determination of the entry into force of the Act with effect from 13 June 2014. With regard to the issues of service, the Ministry explained that activities are already under way at the Ministry for the preparation of a new system law, which is expected to be prepared at the end of 2014 or at the beginning of 2015. He gave some other explanations regarding the dilemmas expressed. Representatives of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, the Union of Consumer Associations of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also participated in the discussion, which pointed out the incomprehensibility and intransigence of the law, to disregard their comments in the preparation of the law under consideration and to the deterioration of the situation in the field of consumer protection in Slovenia. The Ministry explained below that a project group would be established within the Ministry and that all professional stakeholders who would have the opportunity to present their opinions and arguments would be invited to participate. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee generally expressed their support for the proposed law and pointed out the need to strengthen the role of organisations working in the field of consumer protection. In the context of the debate on Article 6, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia proposed a solution that would increase the exemption threshold from the provisions of this Chapter from EUR 20 to EUR 50 for contracts concluded outside the premises. On the basis of that proposal, a proposal for amendments to the Committee of Members Mark Pavlisic was submitted at the meeting, with the adoption of which would raise the threshold to €40. The Committee voted on this proposal for an amendment and did not adopt it. At the meeting, another proposal was submitted for an amendment to the Committee of Members Mark Pavlišič to Article 6 relating to Article 43b of the draft law. The Committee also voted on this amendment proposal and did not adopt it. In the context of the debate on Article 6, Mr Srečko Meh, on a proposal from the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, submitted a proposal for an amendment to the Committee concerning the definition of a contract concluded at a distance which the Committee adopted. In addition, on the basis of proposals for amendments by the Ministry, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3, 5, 9 and 23 and the proposal for amendments by the Ministry Committee to Article 6 became irrelevant. The Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you for presenting the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u4	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Republic of Slovenia, consumer protection is regulated by the Consumer Protection Act, which was adopted in 1998 and has legislated certain essential provisions of the Directives of the European Union. The purpose of this law was to further protect the consumer as an economically weaker party in a contractual relationship, which represents a high level of consumer protection that acts as a weaker party in relation to businesses. The area of consumer protection is rapidly changing due to market developments, and regulations also need to be adapted. The main initiative in this area has been taken by the European Union, which regulates most consumer law through directives. In doing so, it seeks greater harmonisation of the rules, which should facilitate cross-border trade and strengthen the functioning of the internal market. In doing so, I should say that there have been a large number of judicial courts of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, where in various court proceedings it has also been found that certain Member States have very different rules of consumer law. In particular, Germany stood out, although we consider it to be a highly regulated country, which, with its so-called BGB or German civil code, was particularly outdated in the area of regulation of the so-called Internet trade. In doing so, I should say that the transposition of Directive 2011/83 into the national legal order for all contracts concluded by consumers and businesses will simplify some other rules which have an important impact on the situation of the consumer – the fulfilment of the contract, the transfer of risks, the unsolicited supply of goods and services and the provision of consumer information. Member States should adopt and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with Directive 2011/83; the deadline was 13 December 2013. In view of the above, the Republic of Slovenia, in view of the new Directive 2011/83 adopted, must immediately transpose the provisions of this Directive into its legislation. The transposition of Directive 2011/83 into national legal order will simplify certain other rules that have a significant impact on the situation of consumers for all contracts concluded by consumers and businesses. Therefore, Member States should adopt these provisions and this Directive within the time limit which I have indicated. Slovenia is lagging behind; we have been behind for six months. The aim of this Act is in particular to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the European Directive, namely the transposition of Article 3, Article 4, paragraph 5, and Article 7 of Directive 2008/122, in order to remedy the shortcomings in the transposition of those Articles. In particular, it is a matter of uniting the rules between the legal order of the Member States of the European Union, as previously stated, with regard to distance shopping or off-site shopping, and rules on the fulfilment of the contract, the provision of information in other contracts and the transfer of risk of destruction or damage to consumers, which will enable better consumer protection, especially in cross-border purchasing, as they will be guaranteed equal rights in all Member States. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act is dealt with in a reduced procedure due to less demanding amendments and additions to the law and less difficult harmonisation of the law with other laws or laws of the European Union. Otherwise, as I said, it is somewhat late, but I think it is properly implementing Directive 2011/83. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we predict support for the law's completion. In doing so, I would also like to say that the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, like the majority of the parliamentary groups on the home committee, that the Consumer Protection Act has become extremely complex and extremely opaque with all the innovations, so I believe that a whole new regulation of this law will take place in the next term. I think it is extremely important for Slovenian consumers as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will be presented by Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a amendment to the Consumer Protection Act introduces European guidelines or directives into Slovenia to the extent provided for by the Consumer Rights Directive, while also addressing the minor shortcomings of European law in terms of time-share contracts, long-term holiday products, further sales and replacements. As presented on the parent’s working body, the biggest novelty is the area of fulfilment of the sales contract by the company in the event of a delay. In addition, we redefine the possibility of withdrawing from the contract in the event that the consumer uses the goods within this time limit and is responsible for its reduced value. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we did not object to the proposal of the novel on the working body, but later we took note of the views of the trade and trade chambers, which pointed to the amended Article 6 which made our legal order disproportionately sharp. One of the groups of Members has, however, tabled an amendment returning the text of the article to its original form. That is why we will support this in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Nor will we oppose the other two amendments. However, with the support of our parliamentary group, I would like to draw attention to the fragmentation of this law, which has become opaque due to many changes, and therefore, according to some data, consumer protection in Slovenia is even getting worse. We expect, of course, to adopt a new, comprehensive and, above all, modern law in due course, following the launch of an economic initiative to meet the needs of people, i.e. consumers. As we say, we will support the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Srečko Meh will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u8	Good-bye, ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendments and amendments to the law relate to the transposition of the directive – I will not read – on consumer rights, which must be transposed into the national legal order by 13 December 2013 at the latest. This law also eliminates the minor shortcomings of Directive 2008/122/EC on consumer protection in relation to certain aspects of time-share contracts, long-term holiday products, further sales and replacements, and on a few minor changes and the elimination of ambiguities in the existing law. The purpose of the adoption of the law is to further protect the consumer as an economically weaker party in a contractual relationship. The Consumer Protection Act represents a high level of consumer protection, which acts almost always as a weaker side in relation to businesses. Consumer protection is rapidly changing due to market developments. This should also be adapted to the rules. The main initiative in this area has been taken by the European Union, which regulates most consumer law through directives. In doing so, it seeks greater harmonisation of the rules, which should facilitate cross-border trade and strengthen the functioning of the internal market. By harmonising Slovenian legislation with Europe, the rules between the legal order of the Member States on distance or off-site shopping and the rules on the fulfilment of the contract, the provision of information in other contracts and the transfer of risk of destruction or damage to consumers will be uniform, allowing better protection of consumers, especially in cross-border purchasing, as they will be guaranteed equal rights in all Member States. In the Group of Social Democrats, we certainly believe that the Consumer Protection Act should be amended more thoroughly. The government planned it this year. More attention will also have to be paid in the future to greater funding, such as consumer magazines, and to the cooperation of the Government with consumer organisations. We do not consider the current cooperation to be appropriate. The government will also have to further promote the functioning of non-governmental consumer organisations in the future. In our view, the Council for Consumer Protection at government level will also need to be established. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Ms Alenka Pavlič will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you very much again. The proposed amendments and additions to the law relate to the transposition of the European Union Directive of 2011 which should be transposed into the national legal order by the end of 2013 and the correction of the shortcomings of the transposition of the 2008 European Union Directive. These changes improve consumer protection in cross-border shopping, as they will have equal rights in all European Union Member States. The important amendment introduced by the law also constitutes the fulfilment of the contract and the right of consumers in the event of a delay in fulfilling what has been regulated in the bond law so far. If the time limit in the contract is not set, a 30-day deadline shall be laid down, as the time limit for completion has not been set so far. The latter caused consumers difficulties in enforcing rights due to delays by businesses. Changes also bring additional rights to consumers in online shopping. These will now be protected against hidden costs on the Internet that occur in various free advertising services such as horoscopes or prescriptions. Many times later, it turns out to be paying services. Consumers will now have to explicitly confirm that they understand that they have to pay for the service. The obligation for traders to indicate the total price of the product or service, as well as any additional costs, will contribute to greater transparency of prices. In addition, the law sets out the information to be provided to the consumer when the contract is concluded at a distance or outside of business premises, the establishment of a 14-day time limit for those contracts, and a clearer way of withdrawing from the contract is also laid down. In this regard, the Group of Non-Related Members would point out that, in the context of the debate on Article 6 at the meeting of the home working body on the basis of a proposal from the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, a proposal for an amendment concerning the definition of a contract concluded at a distance which was also adopted. In this regard, the representative of the Government pointed out that the proposed amendment to the definition of the application of the proposed law extended beyond the scope set by the European legislator for the purpose of organised sales. We are aware that it is an extension of the obligations set by the Directive in the text of the articles only for an organised way of selling over a distance. It therefore introduces a specialty, as everyone, including those who occasionally organise distance sales, will be subject to the requirements of the Directive. In this regard, the Chamber of Commerce has drawn our attention to the possible consequences that the solution could have. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia and the SLS were tabled for a second hearing at the meeting of the assembly by an amendment which brings the proposal of the article back to the original dictatorship proposed by the Government. In this case, we remind the Group that it is true that new solutions are beyond the European framework and that we are asked whether they will really have a negative impact. Before they live in practice, they are difficult to assess. Therefore, at this point in time, we will not support the amendment of these parliamentary groups and will give priority to a higher level of consumer protection. However, if it later turns out that new solutions lead mainly to insurmountable problems and complications, we point out that activities are already under way at the competent ministry to prepare a new system law, which is expected to be prepared by the end of 2014 or early 2015. Until then, it will be enough time to evaluate all possible negative consequences and eliminate the solutions adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! With the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, we transpose into our legal order a directive on consumer rights, aimed not only at increasing consumer protection as well as economically weaker parties in contractual relations, but also at uniting European consumer legislation, which will have a beneficial effect on increasing, in particular, cross-border distance trade, such as online, mail or telephone trade. This directive will strengthen consumer rights and trust in all 28 Member States of the European Union in difficult economic conditions and will affect some 507 million consumers in Europe. The amendment of the law increases consumer information, increases price transparency, eliminates additional payments for the use of credit cards and calls on call on call lines, for example for information on a specific contract, reduces the period of repayment of the purchase in the event of withdrawal from the contract from 30 to 14 days and so on. Let me also mention that through the directive, consumer legislation also implements various safeguards that prevent certain merchant approaches that could distort consumers' will to enter into contracts or their economic behaviour, thereby providing consumers with certain additional protection. It is known that traders are increasingly resourceful when it comes to the marketing of goods and services. Consumers can be exposed to different situations, such as free dinner invitations, excursions and the like, where, through the entire scene, misleading information, personal treatment, and so on, they decide on business or purchase goods or services which, otherwise, would not be accepted by all facts and circumstances, in particular with the possibility of peaceful and serious consideration. It will limit this misleading business practice by extending the definition of contracts concluded outside business premises. Such contracts will also be considered as new contracts between undertakings and consumers concluded in the business premises of an undertaking or using means of distance communication immediately after the consumer has been personally dealt with by the company at the same time in premises other than business premises of an undertaking, as well as contracts concluded during a trip organised by an undertaking with the purpose or effect of marketing and selling goods or services. The advantage of contracts concluded outside business premises, as well as distance contracts, so-called online commerce, is that consumers can return goods within 14 days if they change their minds for any reason. In such cases, companies are obliged to repay all payments received. We are already late for transposition of the Directives because by 13. 12. 2013 must adopt and publish laws and regulations which comply with the Directive. In the Civil Gazette, we support a free economic initiative, but this does not mean anarchy where consumers are also left to the sellers for fraudulent purposes. Consumers are often weaker than sellers. The seller chooses the place, time and subject of the offer, and protection of consumer rights is therefore very necessary. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! As has already been said by the various debaters today, this time the amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act are directed by the European Consumer Rights Directive, which requires its members to transpose them into their legal order. The biggest novelty comes from the provisions relating to the fulfilment of the sales contract in the event of a delay, since after a new 30-day deadline for the completion of the sales contract, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. The proposal for a law on distance contracts, otherwise retains a 14-day period for withdrawal without giving any reason. It will also be a welcome opportunity for consumers to withdraw from the contract if the goods were used. In this case, of course, due account will be taken of the reduced value of the goods. In general, the amended law brings quite a few novelties to consumers and also to sellers. It is true, however, that this law has become rather opaque due to the numerous amendments and transpositions of European directives and that we support the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's intention to prepare a new system law as soon as possible in the Slovenian People's Party. All stakeholders, from the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise to the Chamber of Commerce, should also be invited to participate in the preparation of the new law, and not least of all the consumer organisations, since the discussion on the working body has given the impression that this is not only necessary but also beneficial, there is no cooperation and that non-governmental organisations are not involved in the formulation of consumer protection policy and the preparation of legislative solutions. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that more of this Ministry's cooperation with chambers and consumer organisations in the preparation of legal solutions, I hope, will also prevent any anomalies that have occurred in the consideration of this law on the home committee. In fact, at the initiative of one of the consumer NGOs, an amendment was proposed on the Committee concerning the definition of a distance contract. This Article, however, lays down the obligations imposed by law on economic operators which are organised to sell goods at a distance. However, the amendment adopted on the parent committee would also apply to those economic operators who rarely or exceptionally sell goods at a distance. In other words, it would be a way of mobilising distance sales so that in the end it could be used exclusively by those working in an organised manner. The negative consequences of this amendment and the extension beyond the scope foreseen by the European Directive have already been duly pointed out by the Government's representative on the parent committee, and the representatives of both the Chamber of State and the Chamber of State have also addressed both the Chamber of Commerce and Trade. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, we responded to their proposal and submitted an amendment to the amended law, which means nothing more than that we are returning to the law the text of the article as originally drafted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. To avoid being more papal than the pope in Slovenia, in the Slovenian People's Party we propose that you support this amendment, which you also have in writing, and we will explain it further in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A warm greeting to all present! The Consumer Protection Act is primarily about the transposition of the European Directive into our legal order. The transposition of a European requirement or directive shall include: the conclusion of a contract at a distance or outside of business premises, distance trading of financial services and provisions governing the sale of goods and the provision of services. The proposal complements the existing system in terms of strengthening the legal situation of consumers and more effective monitoring. The novel also removes some shortcomings of the current law, such as time-share contracts, long-term holiday products, sales and replacements. Acquisition shall also be demonstrated in the simplification and facilitation of cross-border business rules for both legal and natural persons. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, it seems to us that the deadline for both the return of money and the return of goods is shorter. In our decision to support the amendment, we followed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which says that the law is non-transparent and difficult to understand and requires a new, more comprehensive image. And it is precisely because of a lot of comments that the competent ministry has pointed out both the legislative and legal services and some of the institutions concerned that by the end of this year, or at the latest at the beginning of the next year, it will have prepared a new, comprehensive and transparent system law on consumer protection. In the DeSUS Group, we will monitor and follow the situation of realisation in this area, because we believe that pensioners as consumers are the largest population in our area. I would also like to mention that we are already late with the deadline for national harmonisation with European legislation. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we have repeatedly warned that the European Union's hands must be respected. Otherwise, in this context, we can be pleased that this transposition will be completed and we will soon be able to introduce a new, recast system law. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we find that in preparing not only this, but in many legislative proposals we miss the participation of all the stakeholders needed. Thus, we believe that only through the inclusion of all competent organisations can we make better legal solutions, changes. As you know, with more participants, we are able to contribute more to a better, more rational and more well-established area that protects the consumer. As I have already said, the adoption of legislation is important to improve the status of consumer protection. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will therefore provide support for the complementary proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the Ministry, fellow Members and fellow Members! Today, the Slovenian consumer is often left to the will of individual companies or individuals engaged in gainful activities. The aim of sellers to sell as much as possible and to generate profit on the one hand and the aim of consumers to buy as little money as possible on the other hand is a logical contradiction of interests, which, despite the various objectives, can be manageable if the laws of both parties provide equal and fair protection. Since our society is extremely consumer, in the New Slovenia Group we are convinced that consumer protection is still important, especially in terms of protecting their rights. Of course, we must not ignore the situation of companies selling their products and services on the market and can be put in a worse position in the face of excessive consumer protection. How, then, can we strike the right balance between the administrative burden on businesses and consumer protection? The new Consumer Protection Act by transposing the Consumer Rights Directive provides a comprehensive consumer protection system that will simplify cross-border business for both consumers and businesses. The harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with European legislation and the unification of rules on distance or off-site shopping are therefore necessary. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that implementation of the Directive on consumer rights in Slovenia is necessary. Small changes and additions to the Consumer Protection Act are also necessary to address some of the shortcomings that have arisen in the transposition of the Consumer Protection Directive. In doing so, however, we point out the following facts. The law has become extremely opaque and therefore incomprehensible as a result of many changes already adopted and additions. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in the process of adopting the amendment. In addition, we are defending the content of the amendment tabled by Members of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 6 of the amended Law. The definition of a contract concluded at a distance must necessarily include the indication that it is contracts concluded in the context of organised distance sales and not for one-off purchases. This defines the distance contract as well as the Consumer Rights Directive. We will by no means allow the adoption of the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act to allow disproportionate burdens on businesses or businesses of individuals who, even in the case of individual sales of goods or services, should meet a whole range of requirements. This would mean an unnecessary administrative burden on a small economy, and thus a difficult purchase of consumers. Since our aim is precisely reversed, that is to relieve the small economy and make it easier for consumers to buy, we will also insist on the amendment tabled. If this is not adopted, this will only reflect the country's unrealistic attitude towards a small economy and consumers. In this case, in the New Slovenia Group we will not support the amendment of the law. In view of the above-mentioned Christian Democrats, we expect the amendment to Article 6 of the Additional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act to be adopted, thereby helping to unify and regulate the area of organised distance sales in the European market. This is also the purpose of the Consumer Rights Directive, which we are transferring to the Slovenian legal order.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the members of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? There are many of you, so I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honorable representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps an introduction: we have heard the European Union or the European Directive many times in our views today, and it is true that security and consumer rights are an extremely important part of all policies of the European Union. I am not saying this now because in a few days we will have elections to the European Parliament, but perhaps also somehow to inform all Eurosceptics and all those who identify and claim that the European Union has brought us nothing and that it brings us nothing. If those who so criticise the European Union were to read at least a little about what European policies are dealing with, they would see that consumers are very sensitive and that consumers are actually the first concern of European policies. Today, 500 million people live and work in the European Union, namely 500 million consumers, half a billion; they are looking for the best supply, quality and price of products and services. They expect accurate and real information about the products and services they buy and the reliable protection of their rights. Their purchasing decisions also affect innovation, efficiency and economic growth. I think it is very important for us all to be aware of this, of course, even in the light of the amendment under consideration of the Consumer Protection Act. Consumer protection at European Union level has four main objectives. The first objective is to protect consumers from serious risks and threats to individuals who need to act together. The second objective is to enable consumers to decide on the basis of clear, accurate and consistent information. The third objective is to protect consumers' rights and enable them to resolve disputes quickly and effectively with traders. The fourth objective is to adapt consumer rights to economic and social development, in particular in food markets, energy markets, finance, transport and digital services. These are four main objectives at European Union level, consumer protection targets. And now specifically to the amendment to Article 6. In fact, I made this introduction in order to somehow better understand why the members of the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian People's Party decided to amend Article 6. Here's a talk about a long-distance contract. In her position, colleague Iva Dimic explained the purpose of our amendment, so I do not think that it should be specifically addressed in detail, since it is also available in written or electronic form to everyone. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to reflect and also to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We, too, in the Slovenian People's Party, are co-signers of this amendment. In fact, there is not much more to add to what has already been presented to me by both Members of our parliamentary groups, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, in their position. The fact is that, with this amendment, I may reiterate this, we are returning to the 6th Article, which we are proposing, the original proposal of Article 43, the text of which was correctly defined by the Government. This initial government proposal contained the correct definition of the concept of a contract concluded at a distance which differs from the existing definition only in that it no longer covers the financial services contract. At the Committee on the Economy, a new policy was adopted after, as we know, which significantly expands obligations on economic operators, even beyond the requirements of the Consumer Rights Directive, even beyond the proposal of the bill-maker, as well as outside the current regulation. The requirements of that Directive apply only to those entities which are organised for distance sales and not to those which rarely or even exclusively sell products or goods at a distance. Since an article such as that adopted at the meeting of the parent committee would also impose an obligation on those undertakings or undertakings which do not deal with organised distance sales, which, therefore, occasionally or even on a one-time basis, accept the consumer’s order by telephone and agree to send or deliver the ordered product to it. I am convinced that this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia solves this problem. And as I have already said, as colleague Jasmina Opec said in the very view that we will not be more papal than the pope, which we have recently enjoyed, please, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, to support this amendment. According to what I have heard, I am confident that this amendment will receive support from the discussions on the positions themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you, too. In the following discussion he has applied for a number of you, so I invite you to report. [[...]] Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I often feel like we just lost a compass in this country. Mr Horvat explained for five minutes about consumer protection, how he advocated consumer protection, how important this area was for the European Union and everything else that had to do with it. However, it proposes an amendment that lowers this consumer protection. The fact that this actually lowers consumer protection and, on the other hand, definitely has a positive impact on those who carry out such an activity has not lost words. In short, he spent five minutes saying how much he valued consumer protection and how it should be handled, while proposing an amendment that was lower. There is nothing wrong with this amendment, because we are really too often more papal than the pope, but I must point out this fact, Mr Horvat. In fact, this amendment, which you are proposing, adds two new points, when a contract is considered to be a long-distance contract. And this means that any frauds that attempt to abuse consumer confidence in this way will be given one additional chance to defend themselves if they do not engage in organised sales. If we don't deal with organized sales, we just call 50 people every day and try to sell them some knives or some rags for 50 euros. You're opening this up with this amendment. I'd like to draw your attention to another matter that has to do with this. In Slovenia we give all too much weight to the law and regulation of things by law. We think that if we put something into the marriage now, the problem will be solved. He won't. Laws should also be implemented. And we're missing some healthy farmers in this area. It is said that when inspections actually take account of this law when they apply it in practice, they must focus not on catching some formal mistakes, missing a point at d. o. o., but must actually focus on catching real fraud and punishing these real frauds. That's what we're missing in Slovenia. It is already clearly defined in the basic doctrine of the law that these are contracts concluded between the company and between the individual. Here we need to know clearly that this article does not touch those who really do something every so long, natural persons and some small people who improve their status, but it is actually contracts between the company and the consumer. That says a lot about the nature of this law. In short, this solution, and at the same time this only understanding of your understanding of this law, that if it once accepts an order, then it must ensure all I do not know what device to record this order – this is a completely wrong view. Let us take a serious look at what the problem is in this country. The problem in this country is the implementation of legislation and not the legislation itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvat has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. First of all, I'm talking about consent. Of course, I agree with my colleague Mark Pavlisic that laws must be enforced. The executive branch is, of course, responsible for this. If we enforce laws, in fact, we protect consumers' rights most, this is generally the case. If colleague Marko Pavlišič listened consistently to all four objectives at European Union level implemented by the European Union in its consumer rights policies, then he would also hear the fourth objective. The fourth objective is to adapt consumer rights to economic and social development, in particular in food, energy, finance, transport and digital services. And when we talk about implementing the directive, if we read it, we would understand the importance of our amendment. In particular, the Directive aims to simplify and regulate the area of organised distance sales on the European market, organised sales. Therefore, in the seventh point of Article 2, the Directive defines distance contracts as those concluded in the context of organised distance sales and not even in the context of single sales or occasional sales. You were talking about some knives, wait. I don't know if I explained, but I'm available for further clarification.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u28	If my colleague Horvat has not explained, I will try to complement and further explain, and perhaps something more clear will be. In the first place with us definitely, and I agree with my colleague completely, it can't all be written in laws, and we change the laws too much at every session every year. There is not even a god that can read all this and, of course, implement it in his work. So here we should first do something on our own and write the legislation better. Legislation should be simpler to make it more comprehensible for people. Certain things need to be more generalised, that we need less control over the implementation of legislation, that things will be very clear, say, when we talk about the lump sum and so on. So much could be done in this way, because, otherwise, legislation is unfortunately more implemented on smaller projects. Do you remember, I don't know how many, a few months ago, before the law on the Moratorium of Black Buildings came into force? One of the houses fell down, all the fairies, all the rest, from Jaklič to everyone else, but the rest. And, of course, they will now be able to legalize. In short, that's what I'm saying, and here I agree with you. But the fact is, if we don't put this amendment back the way the government or the government has not changed it, so I'm going to say, as it is in the European directive, but, of course, let's do the opposite, just what you wanted to say, that there are too many complications that things can't be done, so let's try to collect some things further, again. I don't know, it's organized sales if you want, I don't know, get a towel from your car, and you don't go to the service, they send it to you, you call it, and so on. If that's not in there, it's almost impossible. As far as fraud is concerned, of course, let the cheaters get on the toes of those who can do it, and the judiciary is certainly in the first place. If we had these things in order, including financial discipline and so on, we wouldn't be in the same phase as we are today. As far as self-sustainment is concerned, consumer care is certainly the largest, and it will be far more important only when we do more on self-sustainment in the environment in which they live. Who knows how they produce and so on, and, of course, self-care will also increase consumer protection. However, there will also be a policy that will encourage not only farms of a hundred hectares further and further, because our country is or is something special, of course more will have to be done in agricultural policy or where agricultural policy is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u29	Mr Pukšič, you have gone very far in understanding this amendment, so I suggest you stay with the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u30	Mr President, because we are in Parliament, and in Parliament, if you want to support a special matter, you have to say breadth. A colleague in front of me explained this very widely. I won't be too long, don't be afraid, I won't spend all the time we have at our disposal, but we do. So, of course, more will have to be done to understand agricultural policies as well. We talked about this quite a while ago on the initiative of an extraordinary meeting, but with regard to agriculture in relation to penalties, the subject was also broader, and this is also related to it. Finally, if you want, honey sales can also be organized, potato sales and so on. In short, this is also linked to agricultural policy. I will conclude by concluding that where this place is as much as possible, it will have to be done on the European Parliament's Agriculture Committee, and I am confident that after the next European elections, our four Members will be able to be at least one of them on the European Agricultural Policy Committee and we will be able to discuss it more, we will have more self-care and, of course, this will be the biggest concern for the consumer. That is why, of course, I absolutely support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u32	Sometimes it comes to such a serious darkness, it can be a laughing matter. Why are we changing the laws? Not only are we adopting a European legal order, but we are also changing the laws so that, in an area where something is wrong, the authorities that are persecuting it can act, and we are also talking this time about the grey economy, about what we are talking about, about unfair competition. All those who offer this in a way that they can now offer, on a one-time basis, and exploit this law are unfair competitions for all those who pay taxes in order. And that's probably one of the things that this marriage could do. This is an interesting position or the fact that this amendment, or what we are now changing, has been proposed by the Slovenian Consumers' Union. And now we're all making excuses, talking about protecting consumers. The only organised civil society institution or one of the few civil society institutions dealing with consumer protection has proposed an amendment to protect consumers from those who exploit what means distance selling. And that is why I think it would be right not to accept this amendment, to remain a dictatorship, with which we will try to limit also what those who are exploiting legislation are doing, and, of course, those who are paying taxes as they should be. It is interesting that we are talking today about the protection of craftsmen, but here we have a law on consumer protection. And I am in favour of supporting the economy, absolutely making this compromise between how to support the economy, the economists, and how to protect consumers on the one hand. Therefore, it seems to me that in this law we are protecting consumers, and let us consider what we can do to enable entrepreneurs to do better. Not that, because we want to enable honest entrepreneurs to sell, we will also allow them not to sell those who work in the field of so-called grey economy and unfair competition. You know, when it says here at the end of this amendment: "The primary purpose of the directive is primarily to unify..." - which, of course, I agree - "...that is why the Directive in Article 7(2) defines distance contracts as those concluded in the context of organised distance sales and not even in the context of one-off sales or occasional sales." Of course, you could say that you would support a one-off sale limit if this sale were truly unique. However, if it is a temporary sale, it is not a contract concluded and it does not do so as it says elsewhere, but it is already unfair competition. Therefore, we will not support the Social Democrats of this amendment to Article 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear High Representative of the Ministry of Economic Development, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think that this amendment, which has been tabled, is very good, good for the economy, good for consumers, and I will personally support it. There are many developments in the world, including developments in new forms of sales, and legislation is a living thing that needs to change. On the other hand, Slovenia is no longer closed in a single space, but has open borders in Europe. Since it has open borders, these rules need to be slowly aligned in Europe. On the other hand, I think there's something you can learn from this. What we are always saying is that we are very complicated in Slovenia, the proposal that comes from the European Directive, and this is the case here. This article, adopted by the Committee on the Economy, Article 6, has made it very complicated to sell mainly those sellers who wish to meet certain buyers in order to obtain a certain product in an unusual way, in an unorganised manner, and that the law supports only one type but not the other is quite wrong. And if this Article of the Committee were to be adopted, then in addition to the information referred to in Article 25 of this Law, the buyer should also be provided with a number of other information referred to in the six, seven articles of this Act, such as the costs related to the use of the communication tool, the terms, dates and procedures for the exercise of the right to withdraw from the contract in accordance with the law, together with the form for the withdrawal from the contract, the title at which the undertaking actually carries out the activity and so on. For the sole sale or occasional sale of all this information to prepare and give to the buyer, there is an extremely large administrative obstacle. This means that consumption is lower; if consumption is lower, economic growth is lower. That's why I'm going to support this amendment because it's very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you. The next one has the word Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Sixthly, we have been amending the Consumer Protection Act since it was in force, and the European Commissioner for Justice said in December 2013, when these new rules should be introduced into Slovenia's legal order, that this is an excellent pre-godly gift for as many as 507 million consumers in the European Union. I think so, too. However, when we write and coordinate the individual articles in detail and regulate a particular area, it is always necessary to put consumer protection on the one hand, which is a weaker party to companies and, on the other hand, a free enterprise initiative, that we leave the market or the economy to breathe and that we do not restrict them in every step. On this subject, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party and colleagues from New Slovenia for this very reason; not because I would believe that I do not know how brilliant it is, but because we need to change this policy once and for all to say that we are practically bringing European directives into Slovenia's legal order more strictly or more papal than we are required to do. And in this we are world recorders, excuse me, just in the field of agriculture, where we know who the main players in the history of independent Slovenia were. However, we can remember carriers that I am not talking about the many agricultural laws that we had to introduce into Slovenia's legal order during this period of 20 years. Here I think that even with this excessive systemic, when we are practically standardising in every area too many of our citizens, our entrepreneurs, to do harm to our society, our business environment and, of course, to ourselves. I will support this amendment in this spirit that we must not only nod what the European Union says or what they say in Brussels but also ask ourselves what is good for Slovenia. In doing so, we must recognise that the MEPs so far have not done their homework, so I hope that we will send new faces to Brussels this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you again very much for your word. In fact, I applied for a word because I wanted to tell my colleague Happy Meh again, what it means to have such an article as it is currently written in force, and if it was not to be amended as we suggest, of course, that this would entail a whole series of requirements, as set out by other articles. My fellow Member, Mr Stepišnik, former Minister of the Economy, replied very well and clearly to my colleague Srečko Meh earlier. I think it's really that logical. This amendment also actually solves the matter in such a logical way as to reduce these administrative obstacles that we continue to place on certain entities in such a way or in a different way. That is why I am really calling once again – I think that those who advocate this amendment have been sufficiently convincing, sufficiently clear that it would be right to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u40	The duality of our views, of our views, says: when it suits us, then we do not change the European directive, then we just put it into our legal order. However, I think that our characteristics should also be respected when transposing European directives. One of them is certainly also the grey market; of course, I was talking about this. Otherwise, we can take the view that we will automatically adopt European directives and will not discuss the characteristics of Slovenia at all. However, I think that the specificities, characteristics of Slovenian production, Slovenian consumer should be very precisely discussed and our legislation should therefore also be adapted to the transposition of European directives. But, you know, by not adopting this law and adopting an amendment, we will allow those who offer their services online, who sell it online – for the first time, to know nothing about the costs of communication funds. Secondly, the time limit and procedure for exercising the right to withdraw from the contract will not be known by the buyer. Thirdly, the address at which the company operates will not know anything about telephone numbers. Fourthly, on the head office of the company, if different from the third point. Fifth, on the indication of who's covering the cost of returning the goods. Six, on the costs in the case of withdrawal, on the costs of returning goods if it cannot be reimbursed by mail for contracts of its nature. On the weekly basis of the costs to be paid by the consumer to the company in accordance with Article 43e, paragraph 1, if he withdraws from the contract and so on. Eight, on the non-existence of the right to withdraw from the contract if the consumer is in accordance with paragraph 5 and so on. [[...]] Ninth, on the existence of codes of conduct and accessibility to possible codes of conduct. A decade, on the minimum duration of the consumer's obligations under the contract. And the eleventh time, about the possibility of an out-of-court dispute resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, you are preventing those who will buy remotely from the individual provider from protecting their interests as consumers. You're making it impossible. So once again, think about it and don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? There are many of you, so I invite you to report. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, the debate has shown several times the problem we have in Slovenia all the time since we have been members of the European Union, it has been said for 10 years. This is a problem with the implementation of European directives. And here, too, we see this implementation differently. Of course, okay, we're parliament, we're different people. However, I think that this is where the wisdom of national legislation or the national legislator, in what way the directive is being implemented, is said to be sufficient and, on the other hand, this implementation must be optimal so that it does not make our lives more difficult. Well, what exactly is a directive? The Directive is not a legal text that should be translated into its legislation, it is just some guidance or, if you want, some guidance for doing the work that the higher authority normally gives to the lower body; I do not understand, of course, that the one adopting the European Directive is at a higher level than our national Parliament. If we look at the text currently in force in the amended bill adopted by the Committee and compare it with our amendment, New Slovenia and colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party, what do we find? Let us note that the Committee on the Economy, which is the parent of the labour force, adopted a policy that substantially extends obligations to economic operators, even beyond the requirements of Directive 2011/83. This is said to be an extension of obligations for economic operators, which has been adopted by the Committee on the Economy, outside the Directive, is more than a directive requires. The requirements of that Directive are intended solely for entities which are organised for distance sales and not for those which only rarely or exceptionally sell products or goods at a distance. I had so much to say about this amendment. I do not know if I have succeeded in the question – I will tell you in the decision-making process, Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Mr. Meh mentioned online sales. Mr. Meh, I want to know how you can sell something unorganized online. Does the website just put itself on the Internet and then randomly come people and buy something and pay? Look, you can't do that when you're selling on the Internet. A website should be set up, an offer should be made up, payment options and other matters should be ensured, and this is an organised sale. We can't call this anything else. So that the amendment proposed by the proposer for this additional dictatorship, in order to limit itself to organised sales alone, does not change this at all. So it is not the consumer that is more or less insured. I would like to mention another matter that we have mentioned here all the time – these Slovenian bureaucratic procedures. I have a case of a colleague who wanted to carry out some special form of nature service, advice to entrepreneurs in nature, where they will then turn on some grilled barbeque, and so on, that the real atmosphere will then be established to make it easier for you to understand what they teach you and could not do it in Slovenia. In fact, we have terrible rigorous procedures, what needs to be done, so you can also offer food in nature. And what did she do? She opened a company in Germany and was allowed to do so there, and then she implements it, she is fully legal in Slovenia as part of her German company, because we have too many bureaucratic procedures in Slovenia. With that, I'm gonna say, we have to stop in this country for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would somehow join in with some thinking fact that is going in this direction, that if those who were present on the Committee on the Economy also listened carefully to part of my debate when I talked about how Directive 2011/83 in the European Parliament was actually coming into being, in particular, in relation to a number of cases from the Court of Justice of the European Communities, where there was a lack of legislation in this area to a whole range of abuses. I gave an example of a judicature in which Dr. Verica Trstenjak wrote a very good legal opinion as a state attorney. For those who watch us through TV sets, I would like to say that it was a simple purchase of one used laptop or a laptop. And of course that customer – I think someone bought over eBay and then saw on the other hand that this product did not meet the conditions set out by that seller. What happened? When he wanted to return this product, he said, "Yes, okay, you have the right to return it, but for use on this product I demand because you used it for 14 days, I demand," – I think the laptop cost a hundred euros and it demanded 450 euros for use. And then the whole thing came to the Court of Justice of the European Communities and, look, they also found that, for example, German legislation in this area, the so-called Bürgerliche Gesetbuch or the German Civil Code was extremely outdated in this area, so somehow it did not foresee any new situations that would arise in the area of the development of communication funds. And here we are today right before this dilemma that is. So, on the one hand, the European directive is essentially moving towards consumer protection. It's a whole series of things that are happening today, a whole series of abuses that are taking place on the market. And one more thing to say. Today, it is not a matter of misuse of purchases of some high-value products. Through online sales, you are online today, where you can sell some, for example, four-euro banal plastic products, for example, and in one day you can sell, say, hypothetically speak, 100 thousand products and make a fraud 4 times a hundred thousand – 400 thousand euros you can make a direct fraud. And look, of course, consumers aren't paying attention to this today, and they say, "Okay, for the 4 euros I paid over eBay, I'm not going to do any pressure today, I'm not going to demand the correction of some of my injustices, I'm not going to sue and everything else." And look, various speculators, fraudsters, of course, are not sanctioned. People, those who have a legal interest, do not go in this direction, and the whole tendency goes in the direction of consumer protection. We also note in Slovenia that we were not prepared for the global market, even as consumers. Look, I've also been in this respected National Assembly several times – when I graduated in my degree in economics mainly talking about and researching the field of marketing, that is, advertising through marketing, including children and parents, and here, see, we run into extremely vulnerable groups of people who are not conscious. We also will not solve this amendment of the law, we need civic education in primary schools, especially about what quality products are, what frauds are, what it means when you buy a Chinese product, what you did with it. I once, in my discussion at a conference with my colleague, who came from Graz, an economist, PhDd in Harvard from the Economy, taught in Graz at one of the colleges today – we had a duel, she talked about how rational she was, how she bought that she didn't give more than 50 euros for shoes, but on the other hand, I somehow raised myself to some performance attitude and I said that I had handmade shoes and that I was looking forward to supporting the superior manufacturous production of Slovenian producers. And after I told her that with this 50-euro purchase she basically supports the exploitation of child labour in China, that she throws away two or three pairs of these shoes each year, that she causes incredible ecological damage and, on the other hand, destroys a number of jobs of many top Slovenian companies or individuals, shoes, and that is all that is coming. And look, this was a fight with someone who had a Ph.D. at Harvard, partly Slovenian blood, you could say, and he didn't understand this globality, and that's what they teach you in the world. If you go to serious countries, Switzerland, Austria, Germany, first they teach you this practice of worrying – once they said, when they were in high school, even in the former Yugoslavia, those who walked, had a blessing, they had an object of charity, that an average citizen learned what it was, what it was, what quality it was, what we could discuss today. And look, we are subjected to manipulation every day, every commercial for the first 5 minutes arouses in each of you a condition of some deficiency to some criteria, say aesthetics in women – you have one loss, and the next 20 seconds the advertising goes in this direction to find you a solution immediately. And look, that's what advertising is all about today. We no longer know where the border is between advertising and where the limit is between creating artificial needs for our citizens and citizens, and that is also in a global sense. So this has exceeded all moral standards. But right here we have to be careful, and that is why I, too, have not reacted, which, as you know, I always represent demobilization procedures – are worse than they could be eliminated. Those who perform here today must be aware that only if we go for different permits, such as building permits for slightly more demanding projects, is it still taking too long in Slovenia; years are waiting for a building permit. There are procedures where, say, Arso does not respond after two years for certain procedures. Here, see, I believe that the priority right of total consumer protection is against that right of single purchase. I do not think that there will be some extraordinary debirocratisation, for which you have certain arguments with colleagues and colleagues, and I respect them on the one hand, and on the other hand you must be aware of all the pitfalls of today's communication means. And look, one of the jurists, who also created this directive, who came essentially from the Court of Justice of the European Communities to the European Parliament, is the case I have told you. I would be happy to show you the whole range of judges of this court in various cases, which have had a tremendous impact. If you look at what the Government has sent you, i.e. the bill, it is interesting that this is also a major change in Germany, such as the German Civil Code. True, the Austrians of all parts of the directive have somehow failed to implement their laws, but I am convinced here that at least this amendment, which is also being tabled by Nova Slovenija, does not point to this. And it is these one-off purchases that are mostly the nest of major abuses, internet abuse, and consumers will not have any protection. And here I can say, I can find some compromise, maybe anything I can do. But be aware that consumer protection is still at an extremely low level today, at least in Slovenia. And also the culture of consumers, what we are to blame for and what we can improve in the long run. And I think that the protection of consumers is first and secondly, there is some additional bureaucracy, because this is a minimum, does not result in such a high cost for those who might join this sale. So I'm on the side of those who stress this protection, and I don't think this amendment is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on cross-border insurance of call-for-sports within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 30 Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Kavticnik. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill to Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representative of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It would be unfair to say that the country has done nothing for our excellent athletes and athletes, but it is true that it could do much more. And today we have the opportunity and the opportunity to take an important step towards improving their position by approving the draft law on the bridging insurance of professional athletes. The draft law has roots already before 2010; there is a drafter of this draft, which is the Sports Union, who briefed the Minister of the Beast on the proposal or draft law at the time. Then the ministers of Dr. Lukšič, Dr. Turk and also Dr. Pikalo were informed of this draft. No government has taken up or withdrawn this draft, although certain experts in the field of labour law have also been involved in writing. Since the draft law did not arise at the government, it is not inter-resortively coordinated, so more comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly than otherwise. The law, as has been said in the introduction, we are in the Assembly of State 24. 1. tabled by Members of the various parliamentary groups. All the comments made in the debate itself have been taken into account, and the disagreements have somehow been coordinated with the amendments. The bill has broad support for interested professional public, members of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – Associations of Sports Unions, National Sectoral Sports Unions, Committees of Sports athletes, Committee on Sports at OKS and Commission of Supreme Sportsmen at OKS. The bill covers professional athletes and athletes who are employed in sports societies, as well as top athletes and athletes who have status and who are self-employed or employed in public or public administration. The first will necessarily be included in the bridge insurance and the employer will have to allocate a certain amount to the fund from their personal income. Others will be able to join the Fund voluntarily. The same rules will apply to all. The part of the funds to be allocated to the fund will be non-taxed, but when the athlete starts to use the funds from the fund, they will be taxed but not more than 30%. We don't give this law to athletes because it's about their earned resources, their personal income, their rewards, their bonuses. The sporter will only receive from the fund those funds and at such a level that he will save. These funds will be received after the completion of a sports career, not earlier than 30 years of age, or in exceptional cases in the event of injury which causes the sports route to be interrupted. Your Honor! An athlete does not have time to study during intensive sports activities, to create a home or professional career. Therefore, this fund will allow it to have at least minimum social security immediately after the end of its sports career. The law is simple and transparent, since it has only 40 articles. The law clearly states: the way in which funds are collected, the formation of the fund, the operation of the fund, the liability and the obligation of the fund manager, the tasks of the fund manager, the information of the fund’s business insurers. The supervision of the fund manager, the fund's custodians, the calculation of tax reliefs and the payment of bridging pensions is also determined. This control will be carried out by the competent institutions: control agency, Durs, Banka Slovenije and so on. I expect that the law will receive the support of all Members and Members, as this is our minimal contribution to our successful and top-notch athletes and athletes. I therefore look forward to today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Sasha Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is held at its 14th regular session. 4. 2014 discussed the proposal for a law on reinvention insurance of professional athletes submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with first-signed Joseph Kavticnik. The legislative and legal service has examined and commented on the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport and the Council of State supported the draft law in their opinions. Among other things, they advocated that social status should be regulated for all athletes and that special saving in the fund should also provide for a solidarity aspect, in particular since this system of individual savings is integrated into national tax policy. The opinion was also put forward by the Government, which, due to too many open issues and dilemmas in the current difficult financial situation in the country, the insufficient range of beneficiaries, the issues of the sustainability of the bridging fund and other uncertainties of the bill. Mr Kavtičnik, representative of the proponents, said in his opening remarks that the proposed law does not take anything and is not harmful to anyone, but gives an important message to top athletes and athletes, and that is that the state and policy are aware of the excellence of their achievements, which are the result of professional work, denial, perseverance, extraordinary efforts and talent. He explained that the bill provides an opportunity and an opportunity for individuals to take part in the earned income, including from the prizes, and other benefits as a bridge insurance for time after a sports career, when these funds are urgently needed. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport has taken the opinion of the Government, which was delivered on 6. 3. 2014 and the opinion of the Government on the opinion of the Council of State of 8. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Among other things, he said that the bill was badly written, has systemic inconsistencies and will cause many problems instead of solving the bridge insurance of athletes. He drew attention to some of the substantive problems in the draft law relating to tax matter, unclear and inconsistent treatment of insurers, outdated data, rules on the management of the bridging fund, issues of other comparable professional groups, supervision of the management of the bridging fund and the lack of draft regulations provided for in the draft law. He further explained that within six months, the Government would submit a law to the legislative procedure which would adequately regulate the subject matter submitted. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their opinion and said that the bill was interfering with a difficult and complex legal area. It affects in particular the area covered by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, the Market in Financial Instruments Act and also the Sport Act. This means that its content belongs to the area of three ministries, so it would make it necessary for all those ministries and other key entities, such as the Capital Company as the intended manager of the bridge fund and therefore the main operator of this law. According to the introductory observations of their opinion, it explained that a number of amendments have been tabled to improve the proposed text by eliminating certain internal inconsistencies, both of nomotechnical nature and of substance nature, and certain other shortcomings and inconsistencies, which are not merely editorial in nature, but also bring about substantial substantive changes, but do not address all concerns. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Aljuš Pertinač, State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, will present the opinion. For the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u52	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As you know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a negative opinion on the proposal for a law on bridge insurance for professional athletes. If you'll allow me, I'd like to present the key reasons and justifications for such a government position. First, it is necessary to establish, as is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, that the proposed regulation does not meet the legal standards for a harmonised, systematic, transparent and clear regulation. In particular, in this proposal, it is problematic to determine the State's commitment to support certain measures or actions, which cannot be subject to legal regulation. As you know, to regulate tax policy in terms of ensuring the integrity and transparency of the tax system, tax legislation is only appropriate. I would particularly like to point out that the content of the bill in mandatory work, where insurance is concerned, concerns less than 500 professional athletes, and in optional work for about a thousand top athletes, as defined in Article 2 of the Sport Act. In total, this represents about 2% of registered athletes in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Government's view, this is not a sufficient range of beneficiaries to justify such a legal solution. We also note that the bill discriminates against sportsmen of the same team in a sports club, as the athlete whose employer decides to hire him is obliged to enter the insurance system, thereby providing him with tax benefits, which is not applicable to athletes of the same team, which the employer does not employ and does not have the status of a top athlete, but can, in accordance with the Sport Act, have the status of a professional athlete, and cannot benefit from these tax advantages. We also note that the law does not provide for solidarity between professional athletes, as it provides for a personal account. In some ways, these legal solutions are therefore a form of private savings with tax reliefs from the State and not social security with rights based on work. If you allow me, I would agree, honourable Members and Members, with the idea that, of course, top athletes are also the target group for which we must work in this country, or in the government, or in the departmental ministry. I wouldn't go into the assessment of whether this country is doing enough for top athletes or should I do more, but of course I would wonder if they are top athletes, and we know that many of them have earned a career that is, of course, the result of their hard work and results, and none of them deny them the status that allows them, which of course they don't need tax reliefs. However, we have many top athletes who need employment opportunities much more than tax reliefs after their completed careers. In short, whether this is the target group, I said, about a thousand people, who at this point in time in this country need the most tax-effective position in terms of tax relief. I think this is a question to be answered when deciding whether to support this bill or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Alenka Bikar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable and respected, all present, a beautiful greeting! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, the proposal for a law on the bridge insurance of professional athletes, which, at the initiative of sports organisations, has been signed by certain Members and Members of various parliamentary groups, has actually been tabled by colleague Jožef Kavtičnik, we support because, according to our assessment, it has at least two important message values. First of all, the athlete thinks that his successful sports path will end once, at a time when he is still in the greatest sporting fervor. With the help of this law, he will begin to think for himself about what he will do after the end of his sports career. He begins to realize that he has to take care of himself and his future first, at a time when he is successful. And secondly, the athlete realizes that after a completed sports trip at least a period of social welfare will be provided and will have some time to adjust to a new way of life. This provides him with some security, so he will be more relaxed and easier to focus on his basic mission, that is, training and competition. In addition, the proposal provides a basis for the preparation of an integrated solution to the problem of young athletes and athletes. In Positive Slovenia, we are convinced that our successful athletes and athletes deserve a law on sport, which would solve a number of important issues in one place, such as health care, where medical checks and care are involved, health insurance during training, competitions for the club, representatives at home and abroad, such as education from primary, primary education to secondary, home study, study abroad, distance, scholarships, then the issue of employment, the issue of tax benefits, prizes and benefits for success, donor and sponsoring contributions, for career planning of athletes primarily after a completed sports course, regardless of whether he ends his career or he ends up in a forced injury, exhaustion or illness, and other areas affecting the functioning of sports life at the time of his active role. If I go back to the proposed law. This law allows an athlete to help himself and can separate a certain part of his earnings or reward for insurance for the time when he ceases a sports career forced for injury or normal, which is four times shorter than the working age of the average worker of the Republic of Slovenia. This way, we allow athletes not to get into personal distress. The bill before us has only 41 articles and is quite simple and transparent. Just because it is transparent and transparent and provides such a system of employment for athletes, it gives professional athletes the opportunity to take care of their social security during their sports careers immediately after the end of their professional sports career – thus giving them the opportunity and opportunity to become more involved in the so-called civil life – and includes the country to support and encourage the saving of professional athletes through minor tax incentives. The proposal for a law on bridge insurance of professional athletes will therefore be supported by all Members and Members of Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his fellow Members and Members! What I will say as the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats is not a definition of sport, but a definition of the law we are talking about, and this is certainly not the Law on Sport, but is the law on bridging funds for athletes. We have considered our position on sport in the Social Democrats Group the most extensively under the national sport programme, and I do not believe that it is not which the Group of Social Democrats could in any way condemn that it did not emphasise and that it does not stress the importance that sport has for the overall development of each individual, as well as the role and importance of sport for the entire Slovenian society. Finally, the national sport programme also provides for an implementation plan which provides for activities and measures to make it easier for athletes to enter into sports careers after a rich sports career, not to mention all those measures that have already been taken by the State for training during their careers and also for employment of some during their sports careers. And now for the marriage. The amendments that have been adopted on the working body, however, address some of the concerns of the Legal and Legal Service, but remain systemic concerns. The main problem with the law is the safety of those who are supposed to be targeted by law, primarily professional athletes. The protection of their savings and legal certainty are not guaranteed in our opinion and in our expert opinion. The policy objective, in particular the legislator, is to adopt, in the first place, viable and well-intentioned legislation. However, the fact is that until this stage of consideration, too little has been done to improve the text. Finally, the Sport Expert Council proposed to the proposer and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – the Association of Sports Unions to prepare a public hearing of the law. We didn't see that coming. The State Council, however, supported the proposal, but with a very clear recommendation that the relevant and interested stakeholders resolve the substantive and legal system issues below. Finally, despite warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service that, given the scope and complexity of the subject matter, the 15-day period from the publication, when the law enters into force, will be too short, this law shall enter into force if it is adopted. Is the adoption of a bill really appropriate under these circumstances? The question of the feasibility of the proposal was also made clear. Is the adoption of such a law even appropriate at this stage? In addition, 19 amendments were tabled in 41 articles of the Law for consideration in the National Assembly. Thus, 42% of the articles are amendments. Such a number of amendments raise the issue of the systematic and enforceable content of the law and would require a new definition of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service, as it is actually a new text. Indeed, the applicant submits that it follows the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, but only partly; it did not address the substantive concerns, nor did it take into account all the nomo technical comments. We note that such a vague and opaque legal regime makes it difficult for legal persons to be informed of their legal situation, thereby creating legal uncertainty and thus a lack of confidence in the law and constitutes an infringement of the rule of law. We therefore believe that the question of the feasibility of the law remains so clearly expressed that we will not support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you. Ms Alenka Pavlič will move forward with the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The draft law on bridge insurance of professional athletes represents a step forward in regulating the area of top, professional sport and athletes in Slovenia. Therefore, the purpose of the law and the purposes of the law cannot be disputed or deserved support. Later in the discussion, however, we will draw attention to some shortcomings or dilemmas that could cause more problems than have helped to resolve the material status of athletes after the end of their career. While the law does not interfere with the regulation of the wider area of sport, it regulates only a separate part, namely the so-called bridge insurance. In fact, it allows professional athletes to charge part of their income untaxed for so-called bridge insurance for a period after their completed career. The State is expected to support the latter with appropriate tax incentives. As the law interferes with the area governed by four system laws, pension insurance, investment funds, the market for financial instruments and sport, and falls within the area of three ministries, sport, work and finance, the question has been raised as to whether it would be necessary for all those ministries and Kad to participate as the intended manager of the bridge fund. The latter has not occurred in the legislative process or before that in the lawmaking phase. The government agrees with the purposes and objectives of the law, but not in the proposed text, nor has the Ministry of Finance agreed, and the coalition partners have expressed disagreement with the amendment of the law. We are therefore concerned in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the law in this form. However, it does not support it because of systemic inconsistencies, as it is supposed to cause more problems. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also showed that the law has a degree of inadequacy. Although amendments were adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, they eliminate certain inconsistencies. For the second reading at the meeting of the assembly, the proposer drafted amendments which, while bringing some substantive changes, still remain open questions or fundamental concerns about the circle of insurers, the specific tax status of payments and payments and the manager of the bridge fund. The government has accepted a commitment to draft its proposal for a law within six months, which will also be acceptable at the implementing level. It is true that we have a derogation from the government, which should not affect the drafting of the text of a law that regulates and regulates the laudable purpose it pursues because of the importance of the matter itself. We will therefore vote in the Group of Non-Aligned Members on the proposal of the law on our own conscience or judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u60	Mr President, Mr State Secretary with his fellow Members and Members. In opening, let me say that in the National Gazette, we believe that the legal regime of cross-border or perhaps better said transitional insurance of athletes after a completed career is necessary, as athletes from their early years have further education, narrow social contacts, some athletes of individual narrowly oriented sports, who are sponsoring less interesting, have highlighted problems, these are, say, athletes in athletics, snowboarders and so on, and have fewer career opportunities for coaching. Their position should therefore be regulated after the end of their careers, but the proposal for a law that we are considering does not regulate their situation in its entirety and has a number of shortcomings. It was also widely pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, which wrote, quote, "that the text denotes non-systematicity, lack of transparency, lack of clarity and lack of consistency, reflecting both the absence of internal structural parts and the substantive subordination or non-conformity of the bill". In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, certain provisions create inequality, are succinctly reasoned, difficult to enforce and constitute a derogation from the current regime, which is not explained or justified. The Legislative and Legal Service has submitted its comments on the articles of the law, which have been far from being able to be labeled only as nomological in nature, to 40 of the 41 articles of the bill. Here are just a few reasons why the proposed law in the Civil Gazette can unfortunately be considered unacceptable. As it is said, it is an unsystematic, opaque, inexplicable and potentially unconstitutional law. The proposal for a law does not constitute a sufficient number of beneficiaries to justify its adoption. The proposal can lead to discriminatory treatment of athletes of the same team in a sports club. Tax policy measures should be regulated by tax legislation. The law should contain an assessment of the public financial implications and be in line with the Ministry of Finance and should also follow the current adverse financial situation in the country. The bridge fund is supposed to manage the capital fund, but the bill does not specify what requirements the capital fund must meet. The establishment of that insurance scheme could also trigger the requirements of other comparable occupational groups following the establishment of specific insurance with specific tax advantages. This is a form of private savings with tax relief from the State and not social security with rights based on work. Then we have, let's say, a 30-year-old limit that could begin to draw rights from this insurance. And we could count it. While the amendments tabled to the bill follow some of the comments, they do not address all the essential conceptual concerns and they are not likely to be rectified by amendments. Some provisions also create inequality, are succinctly reasoned, difficult to enforce and constitute a derogation from the current regime, which is not explained or justified, nor are these amendments. We do not support the draft law in the National Gazette, as has already been said, because the bridge insurance of athletes is governed by partial, non-systematic and unclear rules. Given the complexity of the topic, it is essential that the area be fully examined and, together with the competent ministries, appropriate and financially sustainable solutions can be found, which can also be found in practice. Again, I stress that we are in favour of the legal regulation of this area in the National Gazette, but we want the law to be substantively assigned, in line with all stakeholders and ultimately with broad support adopted. That's what we want in the Civil Gazette. But we don't want today's debate to be populism. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] oriented and exploiting athletes for this purpose. [[…]] Nor do we want this law to make the country two categories of athletes privileged and underprivileged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Yes, Slovenians are a sports nation, we are actually a phenomenon on a global scale, since there is almost no sports sector in which our professional athletes would not achieve the best rankings on a global scale, let it be winter, summer, water or gymnastics. The career of a professional athlete usually lasts from his teenage years to the beginning of his 30 years if it is not terminated prematurely due to injury or illness. This period is reserved for an ordinary mortal for education, career beginnings, social contacts, family creation and the like. For all of this, the majority of professional athletes are largely disadvantaged, leaving many of them out of education after the end of their active careers, making it harder to get a job and thus losing financial and social security. This is particularly problematic if a professional athlete has not achieved the highest results during his career, which are usually paid with high monetary rewards. The proposed law on reinvention insurance for professional athletes, submitted by Members of all parliamentary groups, with first-signed colleague Kavtičnik, in our opinion provides a good basis for regulating the smoother transition of a professional athlete from an active career to a normal life. The law introduces the so-called bridge fund into which a professional athlete himself or his employer will pay contributions which will depend on the amount of his income and the basis for the payment of contributions will be applied to the gross amount of earnings, awards or other funds. The funds collected in the sport's personal account within the bridge fund may, however, be used by the athlete after the end of his career either in the form of a bridging wage paid monthly by one of the insurance undertakings to which the funds from the fund will be transferred, or in a single payment if the amount collected in his account does not exceed EUR 5,000. In doing so, it is worth noting that the obligation to pay the tax will arise in the payment of the funds to the athlete, while the tax on the payment to the fund will in principle not be charged. This ensures a more favourable tax treatment of athletes compared to other professional categories, which could trigger the plaza of these professional groups after equal treatment. Nevertheless, there is widespread support for such solutions in the Slovenian People's Party's Group with optimism, as this means that you are also coalition Members, if I may call you, inclined to lower and simpler tax burdens of the population. We hope that this will remain the case for the consideration of other tax laws, especially those that will be dealt with tomorrow and provide a basis for improving the business environment. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, it is the duty of the State to establish, also through concrete measures, conditions that will enable athletes to live a decent life even after the end of their careers. This is, after all, our moral responsibility. However, we are disappointed with the government or ministry responsible for sport, which in our view should be the one that proposes systemic solutions to ensure the social security of top athletes. If this law is passed, however, the Government will be forced to find a way to bring the provisions of the law to life. Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party estimate that the proposed law on bridge insurance for professional athletes establishes one of the ways towards a known goal. We are aware that the text contains quite a few more holes that can, however, be partially eliminated by the adoption of the amendments tabled. However, due to the moral responsibility of our athletes, we assess that the proposed law is worthy of our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. All in attendance have a nice greeting! We do not support the draft law on bridge insurance for professional athletes in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. There are several reasons for our rejection of the proposal of this Act, and our negative opinion is also accompanied by opinions and warnings from the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The first observation flies to the urgency and implausibility of the data on which the proposal for a law is based. Since the assessment of the public financial consequences of the law is also linked to this data, it is so much more unacceptable that the applicant has not taken the preparation of the law seriously in this work. However, this law will undoubtedly have financial implications for the state budget, as the purpose of the law is to tax relief in the use of funds from the bridge fund. I would like to point out, in the use of funds from the bridging fund. Furthermore, it is necessary to know that the proposed law would be comparatively treated with other countries in a practical manner, since in other countries, if any, bridge insurance is regulated at the level of the trade union, but only for a group of footballers. The following deficiencies relate to the issue of the sustainability of the bridging fund. For the Fund would be obliged to include only 500 professional athletes after other outdated data. With regard to the fund to be managed by the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company, the question arises also after compliance with the requirements to be met by fund managers under the applicable laws. The key to our negative view of this law is the fact that, in a given public financial situation, it is not appropriate to support the proposed more favourable tax treatment, since there would be a loss of government revenue, although not so important at the level, since it is a small group of taxpayers. Nevertheless, we cannot afford this, and this is also due to the fact that this special arrangement for a group of athletes could also trigger the requirements of other comparable groups following the establishment of special favourable insurance under special tax advantages. There is probably no need to speak specifically about the fact that this bill is not in line with the Sports Act either. In the light of all the shortcomings of the proposed law, despite the amendments, implementation will certainly be hampered. This is another reason why our parliamentary group will not support it, because we believe that bad marriage does more harm than it does. But let me warn you something else. In no way does our country treat athletes as stepmothers. On the contrary, we have already adopted a number of measures in favour of the sport sphere. Among them, special regimes in education, public administration employment and, last but not least, the tax burden on the cash prizes received for sports achievements are allowed. Thus, our top athletes and athletes have a number of measures that somehow make life easier for them during their careers, and we Members and Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, of course, sincerely support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u66	Madam Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia has already proven that we are a nation of athletes, including the highest. Christian Democrats want to preserve this tradition, but not to the detriment of quality and recreational sport and youth sport, so we will carefully and systematically support not only the sports path of top athletes, but also their preparation for life after a completed sports career. That is why we have contributed a signature to the Proposal for a Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional athletes. For many times after the end of their professional sports career, they find themselves in an enviable position that can be very stressful for each individual. They often lose funds for running costs, not just for the start of a new business idea, but also for many with unfinished education. As a result, some former professional athletes have great difficulties entering a new life. The main idea of the proposed law is to provide these athletes with funds at a time when they are involved in everyday life and sport will no longer be their basic or basic source of income. In accordance with the proposal of the law, the taxpayers are liable to pay the contribution to bridge insurance for insured persons who pay the contributions from the base. This consists of wages, premiums or prizes received, with contributions from employees in companies that are members of national sector associations disbursing companies on behalf of and on behalf of the insurer and other insurers themselves. In New Slovenia, however, we are also amazed and disappointed at the negative opinion of the Government, which does not support the law. The government has given a very broad explanation for its displeasure with the law. In our view, however, it is particularly problematic that it simply rejects the solutions offered, but does not propose any complementary or more acceptable solutions and amendments to the law. Christian Democrats believe that this is irresponsible, especially for athletes and athletes, whom we are all so proud of. Members of the Government are also very fond of taking photographs of them with success. Unfortunately, it's hard to live with. Members of New Slovenia will support the draft law on bridge insurance for professional athletes. However, if it is not adopted, we hope that the next government will be more inclined to address this problem and will seek, in particular, solutions to existing problems and not just the reasons for putting off the problems. Our successful athletes, who are also our greatest ambassadors or promoters, certainly deserve this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Allow me to begin my presentation of the Group's position, of course, by thanking all the athletes who are trying and making efforts to cheer us up regularly and, we can say what they are spoiling. As has already been said in one of the previous debates, all athletes like to paint, paint, and I am, but when something has to be done for them, forget about them. And I hope, of course, that in today's vote, we will listen to and support the needs of Slovenian athletes and sports. Slovenian athletes and sport need more support, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group we support the draft law on bridge insurance for professional athletes. The law was proposed by athletes; they come from the sports sphere and have to be listened to. Sportsmen need more favourable legislation. In view of the fact that an athlete's profession cannot be carried out throughout his life, it is good to allow a more favourable tax policy to enable them to complete their careers and make it easier for them to switch to another job. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we also call on the competent ministry to approach the implementation plan and implement the resolution on the national sport programme as soon as possible, as there is also a need to improve the conditions for education, especially studies, and legislation on the employment of athletes and sponsorships in sport needs to be improved. It saddens us that the government in moving away instead of with athletes, that is, the topics that bring results, are our promoters in the world, rather dealing with the privatisation of the Sport Foundation and sports officials. The law has already been substantially corrected in previous procedures and readings, and we also have several amendments before us today, which in our opinion will correct the law to the extent that it will be transparent, feasible, effective and will serve the purpose, i.e. to support Slovenian sport and athletes. Despite differing opinions and views on the education committee, we are confident that the law on bridge insurance will be adopted and will improve Slovenian legislation in the field of sport, as it is today like a stone age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 19 May 2014. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I see interest in the debate. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik was the first to apply as a candidate and then I continue to open the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would just like to answer some questions or dilemmas that have been raised a little earlier. I answer to the government: the circle of insurers is extremely carefully chosen. In order to avoid the exploitation and exploitation of the benefits foreseen in the bill, this circle has been reduced for top athletes. For we know that what is in our conversations — we must not say that they were not — has been exposed so that all categorized, prospective athletes could be given the opportunity to make use of such a law by individuals aged 10, 11 years old. To avoid that, we've written it. True, the law does not solve an integral issue; we have already said that. It's a pebble in the integrated rescue mosaic. We are convinced, however, that the Government and governments should prepare a law in these 23 years to solve these problems, which colleague Alenka Bikar has also pointed out. It's an integrated solution, and here we only save the segment that we're proud of, and it's right to save it. Privileges or disadvantages of athletes or athletes. Dear colleague, I think anyone who decides to engage in sports has already received some privileges. It's a privilege to be involved in sports and to realize that sport is healthy. But the fact that we're going to divide people into two people here, those privileged people who can benefit or participate in this arrangement or not, is, to say the least, funny. Because then we're going to say that every athlete who was born with some gene is so great that he's so top-notch, so good and, of course, he upgraded it with work, with labor, with denial, then with privilege. I think that's a little funny. We just recognized that this athlete really put so much effort, so much work, so much labor, so much denial, he couldn't complete the study, he couldn't create a family, he couldn't finally get his health principles. And after a completed sports career, which can end, thank God, in 10 years, but can significantly earlier, in one month, in one week. We know how quickly a top athlete’s sports career can end. And that's why we allowed him to take part in that earning to this fund, which he will then use after a completed sports career, at any time, first of all, if it goes normally, after 30 years. It is a specific area and it regulates a new area, which is why this is done by special law, colleague Alenka Pavlič. The meetings were in these four years, many of them. However, I must say that the most actively involved were athletes and athletes, representatives, officials – what was read to me by the SD, that there was no public presentation of opinions. No, not public, but it was done at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport 3. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The professional world here misrepresents it. He states: "The professional council of the Republic of Slovenia for sport supports the purpose of the draft law on the bridge insurance of professional athletes and proposes that public consideration be given to the bill to include national sector sports associations, local sports associations and so on." It was all done. I have a record here, including how many participants there have been. I also have signatures of how many participants were at this meeting. And what did they take? That they support the law. This was organised by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia – Association of Sports Unions, and the law is supported by three comments. We have tabled all three comments into the amendment and this has also been adopted on the Committee. Non-systematicity – it is probably meant that tax reliefs should be included in tax legislation. We agree with that, of course. But what can we find? In the resolution of the national programme, the drafters had to give everything to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport as far as tax relief is concerned. It had to get everything out. However, as far as care or care for children and youth is concerned, I would like to say that the amendment adopted by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia on the Committee, which was an amendment that said that children in primary school were entitled to free schools in nature, skiing, swimming and so on, was driven by the SD amendment, that this was deleted and that only swimming and cycling remained, what is already in the programme. So much for taking care of children and youth. What about the exceptions, Mrs. Plevčak? You probably don't have to talk a lot about extraordinary pensions, because you probably know how many of these extraordinary pensions there are, but a magnetogram, so little people will know. A contribution for a thousand 458 persons is paid at the Ministry of Culture. It comes from money, tax money, and I don't object to anyone thinking, but we're talking about exceptions. A thousand 458 people are paid from the taxpayer's money. But here we are not talking about any money that should be given from the state budget, but we are talking about money, about the funds that the athlete himself spends. That's what this is about. Then we have extraordinary pensions. These were 151 in 2013. And for these, a million Euros were allocated from the State budget. And ballet dancers, which we also mentioned, and so is they. And it's also to recognize the exceptions and exception to give what belongs to them. That's right. But here we do not recognize the exception to this superiority to allow them to help themselves. That's what this is about. At the same time, we commit employers to regularly pay and allocate certain incomes to all funds, pay those taxes that the state needs, and at the same time, athletes need some social security if they are already employed in a particular club or society. We need to know that because these benefits are so high, certain clubs and societies have already forgiven and forgive athletes who are left to themselves. Of the 500, as was said, there are only 200 of them this year. With this intervention, we will allow clubs and societies to reduce this cost by about 20% for the part that goes into the fund and will be able to hire more athletes and athletes. It's about transparency. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. He also asked the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Mr Aluš Pertinač, to speak before applying for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. In order not to explain what the state offers to athletes and what it does not offer, because it has been said that some like to take pictures with athletes, but they are a little short in the part where they also need to be told what conditions athletes have for their work, but it is worth saying a few things. In fact, the 1998 Sports Act with content and professional and development tasks, followed by the 2010 National Sports Programme, the National Sports Programme recently adopted by this National Assembly and other rules for athletes, especially prospective and top-notch athletes, give a number of direct or indirect measures aimed at both advanced athletes and young talent. If you allow me, I would list the current rights of top athletes, and then you'll decide for yourself whether it's really nothing or whether it's something. Payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance; payment of contributions to emergency insurance; payment of contributions to parental care; payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance; co-financing of superstandard health insurance for top athletes, including for top athletes of the international and prospective class; payment of transitional and similar health reviews of athletes taking part in official competitions of national sector sports associations; co-financing of preparation and performances of young, youth and members of the European Championship, World Cup, Olympic Games and Mediterranean Games, youth sports games of the Alps-Adriatic, the European Olympic Festival of Youth and Youth Games of the three countries; co-financing of scholarships of gifted athletes of students and students; provision of health care for athletes. There is a special organisational form of education for young athletes aimed at achieving excellent results, enabling them to succeed in sports; we are talking, of course, about sports departments in high school. All three public universities in the Republic of Slovenia also educate for sports programmes. Adapting school duties for students, students and students. Co-financing of the salaries of trainers in industry sports schools; the state currently provides 126 trainers 80% of the salary. Co-financing of measurements, identification and monitoring of the level of readiness of athletes at the Institute of Sport Faculty of Sport University in Ljubljana. All sports careers can also be regarded as working hours for the athlete. Co-financing of sport infrastructure from national and European resources. Providing exceptional pensions to persons with special merit in the field of sport means winning medals at the Olympic Games, the World Cup or the European Championship or the achievement of a world record in membership competition, while fulfilling the conditions for a retirement pension. Employment of top athletes in public administration; currently there are 127. I am particularly pleased to say that this government has concluded a new agreement and has finally placed the employment of athletes in public administration. 127 athletes are currently employed in public administration. In accordance with the 2009 Decision of the Minister responsible for Sport, in order to regulate the status of top athletes after a completed sports career, it is ensured: free training programmes and free licensing seminars for top athletes, which can be called professional, are called training, and other work in sports organisations after a sports career is provided free of charge and obtain a licence to perform professional work in sport. To this end, funds from the European Social Fund shall be provided. The second level of competence is also a condition for obtaining the status of a private sports worker and thus provides for the provision of social security, health, pension and disability insurance. Paying tuition to top athletes. With an annual call for adult education, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport or its legal predecessors has been fully co-financed since 2009 by the education of top athletes who, after 25 years of age with a completed year or education within secondary education, acquire a level of education. After 2011, tuition fees for higher education are also funded to top athletes. Financial awards to top athletes and their athletes for sports achievements, medals at European championships, world championships and Olympics are paid out of the state budget directly to athletes, and this award does not go to the income base. In short, as you can see, this country has put a number of measures on athletes in general and also on top athletes. There is probably still something that needs to be further regulated, but there is no way to agree with those who count on the next government to take care of it, because they have been governments so far. And now I have only read a short list of what has already happened and what has been happening in practice in the field of high-level sport. If you'll excuse me, as far as the existing bill is concerned. Look, I said it's 500 top athletes, no more, about 500 top athletes, and among them are really top athletes who are in a very different position. We have Jewish women who have won medals, including gold, at the Olympics. Believe me, you don't have any income in the course of your career that could be allocated to some special fund because they're not a marketing sport. And even after the end of their career, they won't be able to help much with this fund. But we have top athletes, which, of course, I repeat again, with my knowledge, effort, talent, denial and so on achieve the highest results and therefore receive sponsors and other awards. I'll give them all that. But once again, they don't need tax breaks either. What we need is a legal arrangement. And the government, before it started doing business, promised to prepare such a legal arrangement within six months to resolve the situation of those unable to pay in the fund in the course of their careers and finding themselves in a very difficult position to seek employment after the end of their career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I see that interest is in the debate. The first re-applyed as a proposaler, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, it is true, because I also initially said that it would be unfair to say that governments have done nothing in this area. It would be inappropriate. It's done, but I'm saying it's done too little, and more could be done. Until the top result, the government will take care of all these procedures, as you said – not government, state and the sport sphere itself. We are also thinking of a lot of resources here, and most of the funds go from the area of local self-government as well as to parents. Then the country comes here with such and different stimulations through OKS, national industry unions, the Sports Foundation and so on. That means to perfection. But when it comes to excellence, when it comes to what you said, it is necessary to take this step that we have now taken. First steps, we can say second steps to the top. Look, financial awards, like you said. I was at a meeting of athletes who got these awards. Those who come from the Ministry are really untaxed. But those who come from the OKS are still under some kind of taxation. And it was those athletes and athletes that I was talking to Fabjan and so on – she knows how little money she'll have left when she pays all the taxes and then next year's income. From that award. That's why it makes sense to do it. We don't rely on another government. That is why we wanted this to be done today, so that we would not tolerate it again. It was too much to bear and too much to bear. It is true, however, that problems with the current and such organisation of work, not only with this government, but generally when ministries do not coordinate. If we reach out here — normally with every law you reach into the tax law, into other laws, and so on, it is necessary to harmonize. Even if the government does not prepare such a law, it will have to amend certain legislation, the Sports Act, the Tax Act. She'll have to change if the National Assembly adopts the law. And thank God that in the National Assembly we also have Members and Members who prepare themselves or are willing to participate in the preparation of the law. We don't prepare it ourselves because it was prepared by others, but we cooperated. Therefore, it is right to follow this course and to make a small blinding — more connections between the individual departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I see a desire to discuss it. So, let me reiterate that in the debate, Article 1 and the amendment tabled by the Group of Ambassadors is Positive Slovenia. I'm opening an application for debate. The first is Mr Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Let me first say that I am personally, as a great sport lover, and I am acquainted with the pressures of top athletes and how quickly they can end their careers, absolutely for trying to set up some sort of security on the basis of such bridge insurance for a time after the end of their career. I am aware that this does not solve all problems either, because if a young athlete gets hurt, what I know, quickly after reaching excellence, there will be nothing left in this harmony. We still have to look for these solutions. I don't know if there's any other insurance that's damaged for any rent, and that's the one that needs to be paid. This is already a meaningful law for top athletes who are ambassadors of our country. In the last period when we have such a government that is actually taking us down, athletes at the Olympics have achieved the greatest success and have once again raised Slovenia on the ranking list, I would say, modern countries. That's why I'm surprised by the selfishness I've heard here, let's say by DeSUS, who actually cares about only one category of people throughout his client career. But without young people who are athletes, there is also no future for the elderly. I think we should be aware of that. Then here I saw the selfishness of the Social Democrats, who also in this area act in accordance with their ideology, which is largely surviving because they are orthodox, dogmatic to the back and again do not listen to athletes. I was also here, I would say, a little dissatisfied with the latest explanations by the Secretary of State, Mr Pertinac, and with the teaching of what has already been done for athletes. I should say, Mr Pertinac, who was involved in one fictional project, domestic education, to a large extent fictitious, for a lot of money. If that money were to go into this bridge fund, and we would have created it by then, we would already have a foundation today, but it was other fictitious projects, but it was to finance what I know, family ties and so on. Here, in this regard – the very first amendment speaks of top athletes, the one we are correcting – one example that did not happen to happiness to the full. In Tina Maze's case, which was 8 years ago or 7 years ago, due to barons being set up in ski structures, it's top-notch, that she should retire. It has already been practical — the Olympic committees have already declared it an unsuspecting athlete, fly, and in a skiing relationship, certain barons have given it up. And, of course, at the time, at 26 years of age, although already a top athlete, she was a medal winner in large competitions, virtually before being kicked out of the team. And then I'd probably have to face the incredible challenges of life, because that would have happened in the middle of a career. At that time, he rescued her with the encouragement of then Minister Milan Zver with a subsidy from the Ministry. You see, this is the grandeur of a minister who sees ahead, who has the intuition to trust a man. Then three years ago, even before Tina Maze’s gold medals were won, the Olympics saw them prowling again in a ski relationship, and they were again on the run against Tina Maze. And that's when she got a great lawyer, Damien Terpin, a classmate, and a friend of Andrea Massi. Here too he assured her further career, which brought two gold medals, of course not without Tina Maze, it was her thanks, but they wanted to get her out of the machine. Damian Terpin, including the secretary of the Slovenian Community, also the only political party of the Slovenians in Italy, has prevented this machination as an excellent lawyer. Therefore, it is no wonder that Tina Maze also tweets for Damian Terpin when she is on the list for the European elections. And I am sure that her loyal fans will make sure that she comes to the European Parliament by preferential votes, they will give him preferential votes. The beast will be one way or another because it's in the first place. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u77	Mr Jerovšek, if possible, concentrate on the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u78	Yeah, I've got a good focus, don't worry. Listen, that's the kind of epe you need. Look, Tina Maze wanted to be eliminated 6 or 8 years ago by some of the officials and elsewhere after sports ties, and she couldn't reach these medals. These two, which I have mentioned, which are now running by chance in the European elections, deserve to be prevented from doing so. Of course it hurts if someone says it. You're in a lot of pain if anyone says that. But why shouldn't I be bragging about some former minister with an intuition that saw a multi-way combination that he saw in advance and was different from your ministers who just look back and support some fictional projects in education and so on. So if this were to happen to Tina Maze at that time and without such a law, of course he was not there at that time, because even with the adoption of this law, athletes will not be safe tomorrow. This is actually about young athletes, for Tina Maze will no longer work, but with her success she probably came through the stage of having existential problems in that sense after her career. And this example of how top athletes are threatened by the case of Tina Maze should guide you when you decide on this law, so that many careers without this safety will be ended at the wrong time, and Slovenia would also be worthless in the sport field, such as with regard to state policy under the current government, somewhere on the edge. However, with Tina Maze, who has given her medals as an incentive to everyone else, athletes have achieved amazing success in this year’s winter Olympics. That is why, of course, I support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh wishes to speak in a procedural manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u80	Madam Vice-President, I am protesting this way of exploiting the National Assembly, as well as exploiting what Mr Jerovšek has said. If the Secretary of State has done so to make use of the payment from the state budget and thereby put a top-notch athlete on top for client purposes and that he is taking advantage of this today in elections to the European Parliament, it seems to me to be worth every sentence and it is not appropriate when we are talking about the status of athletes. That is why I think it is right, and this would suggest repeating several times what Mr Jerovšek explained – how their minister was doing when he paid that a sportsman could then be used for political purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a big deal that politics can never afford! I'm strongly protesting! I think that this is the exploitation of everything that can be done in Parliament, in the government or anywhere! And I'm proud that this government hasn't done anything like this, and I believe there will be nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. In your procedural proposal, as far as I understand it, you have pointed out that in the debates, there would be no exploitation and discussion of another such as the topic of the law, but, honourable Mr Meh, given that before your application to the procedural proposal, the Secretary of State, Mr Alush Pertinac, had already applied, I would like to give the floor to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. See, Mr Jerovšek, it is not right to abuse the Member's immunity and the position that you have as a member of the National Assembly, that, with unrealistic claims that you know to be unrealistic and are also proven to be unrealistic, they are even contrary to the natural order, except when we know to travel through time, then they will be possible, but now they are not. And you're making a personal mess of me here, and that's why you're abusing the debate about one important law, the law on bridging insurance for professional athletes. That's not right. Look, I don't know what fictitious projects you have in mind, what personally bothers you with my person, but let me understand that I am here as State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and that we are discussing the proposal for a law on bridge insurance for professional athletes. I would remind you of one of my previous discussions: the Jewish Urška Jolnir, Lucia Polavder and this law – if you could say anything else about it, I would be very grateful. But if you don't get rid of me personally, I'll also be very grateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, there's nothing you need to say that I'm exploiting immunity. The Committee on Budgetary Control is dealing with this case and is legitimately involved. And I think that all the ratings are also in the newspapers and everywhere that it was an abnormal amount of money for this program, and we've also read a lot that already paid and already defended research has been paid once again. That's what I read in the media, and we shouldn't talk about it, you're threatening here now. You were right, Urška Jolnir, Lucia Polavder and all those who are non-marketers – if you went part of that money for such funds, it would be better for society. I also have to answer Mr. Meh. In his old communist manner, he wanted to prevent us from taking the word of me and protesting at a time like this. I didn't do anything that wasn't part of reality at the time, and it didn't work out – terrible what he said about the minister supporting an athlete to be politically abused. But he didn't know that then, eight years ago, that she was going to win two gold medals at the Olympics, I'm sure she didn't. He saw a promising athlete in it, and now he's here to protest why the minister backed up this athlete at the time, why he supported her. That actually seems impossible to me! Instead of being happy and proud that he did it to achieve these results, it is now evident that he has made political abuse of an athlete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Lucky Meh? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u86	Madam Vice-President, I ask you very much to prevent Mr Jerovšek from using labelling with communist regimes here. I'm not telling him that he's fascist, that he's whatever he is, because he probably isn't, and I'm sure he isn't. But to label me by speaking in this manner is, of course, kind of broken. As a member of the National Assembly or elected Member here, I spoke about what happened to Tina Maze at the time, past the law, that this was paid in a way that other athletes should not have known. And that is why I protest when we use this national assembly to talk about some of the things that have happened in the past that are not on the agenda today. I think we should talk about this law, about the position of athletes, not about what someone did illegally and what other athletes didn't know. And when we talk about this law here today, we need to be very careful that we talk about not doing any further damage, and so please do not let such labels happen here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. However, in the light of the procedural proposals, I would like to reiterate that the 6th item of the agenda is the one that we are considering, the second is the draft law on bridge insurance for professional athletes under the regular procedure. I respectfully ask all Members and Members to stick to the agenda in the debates. Mrs. Alenka Bikar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I will try to hold on, of course, but I would still give good advice to Mr Jerovšk. My colleague, a very distinguished journalist Vito Divac, is about to start writing a book about Tina Maze, and I believe you have a lot of useful topics, information; I think it would be good if you could connect and maybe add something to his book. So much for that. However, to avoid misunderstandings, I have never claimed for myself that the state has done anything for me as a top athlete. Even when I was an active top-notch athlete, I have repeatedly stressed this, because without the help of the State, of course, I would not have been able to achieve all these results. Even as a member of the National Assembly, when we adopted the National Programme for Sport, I mentioned this several times and especially thanked the State. So it's not true that any way you say that the state does nothing for top athletes. This does not mean that I could not take a step further and that more can be done in this area. I would also like to be more specific about this law, so that it may be even better, more specific if you want to be systematic. However, look, at this time since I am a member of this national assembly, I must say that it is a pity that, if there is no will or sufficient interest, such a law simply ends in the drawer or unfortunately ends very quickly with it, because many times everyone pleads that the law itself is non-systematic and incomplete. For years, in Slovenia and in this space, it has been said that the original proposal of this law has been here for more than 8 years. He was with various parliamentary groups, with different governments. There was a lot of talk about him, and everyone supported him in principle, but there was no realisation. So you've had time for years to do something for this marriage, and you haven't done anything. You didn't do anything. And that is why, as it is said, I see this proposal of the law as some first step towards a systematic solution to the problems and issues of sport and athletes in our country, as a basis for preparing some comprehensive solution to the problems of athletes and athletes. And I would say that either we put a kick in the ass of the government or the ministry, some incentive to see something really happening in this area. Because I think we need, like, time-out, action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Alush Pertinac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. I would really ask you to protect the government and me personally in this debate because now they're kicking my ass. I don't think that's right. Everyone knows when this government took office. I can tell you myself when I started my term. I told her what was in effect, and I also said that everything had never been arranged. I beg of you, let us discuss the content of the law. I'll answer every question you ask, but if you kick me in the ass, we won't be any closer to taking better care of top athletes, believe me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Bikar has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. I believed you wouldn't understand it literally. I'm just an athlete, and that's what was said and meant in sports jargon. But if I have offended you in any way, I apologize. But I actually meant in a transferable sense as some incentive to actually start something happening in this area! That's all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u93	Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u94	Look, Mr. Pertinac, I think you're being incorrect. I remember you for the first time in Parliament when there was a public presentation of opinions on the strategy for the development of higher education under Minister Zupan. At the time you were first spitting at the parliamentarians that nothing was allowed to be spoken of in this Chamber, and then you spoke together for an hour and a half. I then declared you Slovenian Castro, who was known for such speeches. The performance so far – we have not done anything personal, but I do not know now, colleague Bikar, that Madam President has been pushed, I ask that you also warn the Secretary of State that this is Parliament, that we have to touch certain things in a wide range of debates, and that they are legitimate, are legitimate. [[...]] Now you read to me – I know that the Committee on Budgetary Control has discussed a matter and then others should not discuss it. Yeah, how? Then this is the abolition of Parliamentarianism, Mr State Secretary. And now crying here that you're some kind of victim, I think it's a total waste. Madam President, please don't let this happen either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I agree with you, Mr Jerovšek. I do not agree with the debates – there are some of you in the last procedural proposal in some, I would say, phrases have worked. You have also marked the Secretary of State slightly and it is wrong. So I agree with all the suggestions and I ask you to really focus on the law. And as few phrases as possible that might sound offensive. Mrs Mateja Pučnik has the floor, and then I continue to open the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to, I'm sure I'm not going to kick anybody's ass, but if I say some criticism about the government's work, I think this is the right place to talk about it. As one of the co-signatures of this law, I am certainly delighted that this law continues its consideration today, and I will certainly support this law, and I will also support all the amendments that are before us today. I think there's been a great deal of effort, energy and goodwill invested in this marriage. We have heard many times today that it came about for several years, so it did not come about yesterday or a good month ago. And I'm glad we're dealing with him in this very mandate when I'm sitting in this chair. Many of the concerns have been raised on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, including the huge number of amendments that have been tabled, but I think that both the first-signed candidate and the Slovenian Sports Union themselves have made a real effort to improve the content of the law and have prepared a law that also upholds all those rules of the Law and Law Service. Today, it has been repeatedly said that this law on bridging insurance of athletes does not take anything away from anyone but gives the athletes at least a little back. In fact, this law will enable them to cope more easily and overcome the period when their sports careers will end — surely they never know when this will happen — until they find a new career again. The fact is that sports careers are short, much shorter than other careers, that this depends on the psychophysical condition of an individual, that this depends on the years they make their own, also depends on sports injuries. Therefore, the athletes certainly cannot know when their journey will end, and if they have the opportunity to invest their savings in some way during their sports career and then with some tax reliefs, because we are actually talking about it, these funds also benefit from them during the bridging period, I see only good in this. Here today we can do something good, even if only for a handful of athletes. After all, our top athletes, all athletes are one of Slovenia's best ambassadors, one of Slovenia's best promoters. Both at home and throughout the world and across Europe, Slovenian flags often win; we are all proud when playing the Slovenian anthem. Remember the euphoria at the basketball championship that took place in Slovenia and the last Olympic games where our athletes and all of us Slovenians, when we identify ourselves with the excellent results of our athletes, how we feel proud, and this must be respected. There is also something else; that is, financial resources in the country are chronically lacking in all areas. During this economic crisis, this lack is also felt in the field of sport. And even by the state, the financing of sport is always less – I am not talking about this year, but in general this trend of funding is declining. There is also a reduction in funds for sport in the local community, in the municipality. The country is increasing pressure on the municipality, the average, the principal, the share of the co-investment is declining, and it certainly has consequences for the distribution of municipal money. And then it is only possible to count on the good will of the municipal council and the mayor, so that some resources do not be drained in the field of sports. After all, we also wrote in the National Sports Programme that our guidance and our desire to increase the number of top athletes is to increase the number of recreational athletes. But then by increasing funds for all these activities it will certainly not work, and the government should deal with it, and also with the topic that we are talking about today – how to help athletes who finish their sports career. In recent months, however, the government has been really engaged in the field of sport, but unfortunately only by replacing the members of the World of the Sports Foundation with the amendment of the Property Change Act of Slovenia, and this will certainly not be of benefit to our athletes, experts, trainers and all those working in the field of sport. The law before us supports the civil sport sphere, supported by the State Council. Therefore, I am sorry, and I am also very disappointed that the Government does not support this law. I expected that when this law came into the parliamentary procedure, that the Government and the competent ministry would be hearing that they would take a step forward and that this law would lead together to the end. I'm not saying the law is perfect. It must certainly be amended at certain points and there will be time for this at third reading. But the fact that nothing is done that this law is rejected even with the excuse that the Government will prepare systemic solutions in this area, as we have heard on the committee last time, is unacceptable. After all, I must say that I am also in favour of systemic and comprehensive solutions and that I am, in principle, against partial and those that cover only part of the area. And with such problems as our athletes face after the end of their sports career, there are probably other professional groups, probably also culturers. And certainly this area needs to be systematically regulated. But there is no systemic solution at this point; the government does not have it and unfortunately will not print it because it is a government in departure. That's why it's so much more important. And personally, I really want this law to receive sufficient support today for the third reading, and it is still time to fix and improve the law if necessary. The law and all the amendments that follow, I will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I also see an interest in the debate, so I am opening my application to the debate. Let me repeat, we have Article 1 in the debate and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. The first one has the word, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much. As Mrs Pučnik has already said, we will also support all amendments in the parliamentary group. I would like to say, however, that we have put forward several constructive proposals in our parliamentary group for all solutions and proposals for legislation in the field of sport. I have before me the amendments for the committee meeting when we discussed the Resolution on the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023, and we also identified the problem there, we can say, the law we are talking about today. So, I'm just going to read: "Slovenian top athletes are very taxed. If in Germany, for example, a net total cost of EUR 170,000 per 100,000, in Slovenia this burden is on the same net base of EUR 270 000." That no one will think now, 100,000 euros – I just gave this number because it is the easiest thing to calculate, of course, that we all understand. And since I also recognized myself in sport as a Jew — indeed, I myself have been training 13 years and actively competing — it seems a little unfair to me to see the case of Judas as an example of bad practice. Judah has enormous potential for growth as a sport in Slovenia. You may also be aware of how many kindergartens there are, the judo of schools is opened by local communities in Slovenia. I understand, however, that a systemic Jew as an unrecognizable sport cannot tackle the problem of not being interesting for, I can say, market activity. This is mainly because those people who are most responsible always appear only in the games of the OKS and the Sports Foundation, at home and in their territory do not perform their tasks that they should. So I am sure that after the adoption of this law we will have to take other solutions. I have previously called for a concrete action plan for the national sport programme. We have not adopted the implementation plan until today, and we are already at the end of May. Well, we've spent six months, and there's not yet one implementation plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Alush Pertinac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. First of all, I would like to respond to the honourable Members of Mrs Pučnik. Look, of course, the government doesn't change any laws because they want to change the composition of the World of the Sports Foundation. Of course, you know that under the current law, the government directly or indirectly appoints all representatives to the world of the Sports Foundation. It is said that if the Government wants to change any representative or replace it in the world of the Sports Foundation, it can do so peacefully and does not need to change any law. As far as the exposed sports sector is concerned. See, it was exposed in a positive way because of achievements, because of what values it brings as sport, and not least because the President of the Union of Slovenia is the Vice-President of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. It also makes the Jew a recognized sport in Slovenia and I agree that he has done much for this sport. So there won't be any misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I joined this initiative myself. Last but not least, I have been approached by the Sports Union a long time ago by this proposal, and I think that this proposal is appropriate and I also support it, as well as all amendments. On the issue of what with top athletes after their active age, we have been warned by many top athletes, as well as by all governments so far. I recall the initiative of Primož Kozmus, Brežičana, with which we have often debated this too. In fact, top athletes point to one problem, this is a problem when they devote their entire lives to sport in their active years. And since they also have natural and imaginative dates, they can achieve excellent results, including the gold Olympics. For a small country such as Slovenia, this is indeed a remarkable achievement, because we know that a lot of athletes are trying to do it and only the few are succeeding. And if we look at how many of us there are, say, two million, that's really something out of this crowd. These top athletes have always pointed out the problem of when they come into the flood, saying that because of injuries, not least because of the years, they can no longer actively operate in sport, they can no longer achieve excellent results, in fact they are in some way rising. Some of these top athletes go to coaches, some also go to businessmen who are involved in the sale of sports equipment or anything but are not systematically taken care of by these people. The athletes warned of such and different solutions. Remember, there were some rents and the like in the game. And the government, instead of coming up against these people, except for rare exceptions, has always said that all these proposals are non-systematic, that they are wrong, that there is a need to find a comprehensive solution, and the government has never, with the exception of the Minister of the Beast, listened to these interests. So now, in some ways, cynical and judgmental is worth what we hear from the current government and the Secretary of State, when it is not a good solution, it is a half-solution, an inadequate solution and what we Members are going to do here, because all the behavior and all the science about this is united in the head of a few people who today form the top of the ministry responsible for sport. I am talking about Mr Lukšić, also Mr Pertinač and others. Your Honor, it's not true. There is a problem, the problem has to be solved. In fact, I am pleased that I have been able to join a group of Members who are somehow trying to solve this problem. And not to compete with the government here, but to take the initiative because the government doesn't want it. When I was Minister for Economic Affairs, I was introduced to this when I was Minister for Labour, and there was always a big problem in some of the structures in the ministry responsible for sport – mainly the same Ministry of Education or Education or whatever it was already called, and there was sport in it. And despite the fact that another minister may have tried, by the way, not at present, some structures in this ministry have repeatedly, probably under the patronage of the SD, because the ministry has been shot with the staff of the Social Democrats, they have objected, and there has never been any solution at the table. The fact that high-level athletes collect money during their active years under certain more favourable conditions so that, of course, they have a solution for passive old years, let's say, or when they can't work anymore, is the only meaningful and true solution. And indeed, Your Honor, I do not understand why you do not suggest a better solution and oppose this solution. If this government had ambition and a desire to do so, it would probably be a government proposal, a coalition proposal. Thus, we have contributed important votes to the Slovenian Democratic Party and will also support the amendments and this law with important votes that this law will be adopted at all. And I don't know, Tina Maze, Primož Kozmus, also Alenka Bikar and the like, we're talking about this being a miracle that's commendable and supportive, but we don't do anything for support, except words. This law is a symbolic support for these athletes because they want to solve their situation with their money and with the help of the state when they are no longer active. So, Your Honor, I would like to ask everyone to have a few benevolents to these proposals, but not just to look for problems and to use the obnoxious flossules of non-systemicism, non-integrity, partiality and so on, which is what is always going on. If the government thinks that something is inappropriate, incompletely resolved, let it suggest something, not just contradict it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The replica, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, is mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Social Democrats were mentioned, not for the first time; they were also mentioned by the proposer. When speaking about what someone has done and what no one has done, let me say that, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors, at that time, I have proposed to the first-signature coalition coordination to wait for its consideration of the bill to be drafted by the Government as it has done in the opinion. The proposaler did not do so, so I am merely informing the Slovenian public that when it comes to the fact that the Government has done nothing and did not want to do anything, this is not true, nor is it clear that the Sport Expert Council is not at the National Assembly or the Lawmakers have been addressed by the application to prepare a public hearing of the law. This letter came to the National Assembly on 8 May, has a signature, and I would suggest that we then ask the signatories of this opinion whether what they wrote is real or not. And the last thing the outgoing Mr. Mag said. Visjak, the proposal for such a law was prepared during Mr Beast's ministry. And the union representative who defended this law did not receive adequate support. Since then, this proposal has appeared in one form or another on behalf of a union which does not have the status of a representative union. But with whom did one of the candidates talk about the experience of – let me just say that the law started as regulating the status of professional footballers and later added some things. These amendments, which have been tabled, cannot be supported, but let me just point out that the law is non-systematic. I've never heard a word of an amendment, in substance. In Article 2, where the terms, what individual terms mean, are defined by a professional athlete. This is the first time a professional athlete has been defined here, and then Article 3 speaks again about who a professional athlete is. This is only at the beginning of the marriage, but such inconsistencies are many in marriage. I'm not advocating the "something has to be done" principle, but "everything you do, let it be good." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stanko Stepišnik, then there will be a possibility of further discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The law on bridging insurance for athletes seems very good and I will support it. As in the economy, economic growth occurs when projects are implemented, not by speaking, speaking, as does added value, when knowledge is directly transferred to products that Slovenia works, so is sports. Sports are helped when ideas in marriage are realized. In short: let us not kill creativity, innovation, the ingenuity of individual people, if we ourselves are not able to produce a better law in due course. Let us support this law, and I think that the Government, which is extremely capable, will soon make a comprehensive system law that will cover all athletes in Slovenia and all athletes. But until then, let us support this law, because we will be able to save those top athletes who have seen our country abroad and at the same time the best promoters of the Slovenian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I see a desire to discuss this further, so I am opening my application to the debate on Article 1 and the amendment tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. The first one has the word, Mr Joseph Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will also read again about the tape and the public accompanying us that we received 7. 5. to the Group of Members, this proposal. 3. 4. A consultation was carried out with representatives of national trade unions, representatives of sports associations and the public concerned in relation to this law. And what does this conclusion say? None of the demands and neither of them came to the education committee as a requirement. I was the chairman of this committee, and the professional worker also did not have any request for a public presentation of the opinions. The professional council of the Republic of Slovenia for sport supports the purpose of the draft law on the bridging insurance of professional athletes, while the proposed law and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – The Association of Sports Associations proposes to carry out a public examination of the bill, in which national sector sports associations, local sports associations and sports societies, as well as the general public, should be better integrated. I don't know what "better" is. I don't know if those of you who are from the professional world have been to this council. We're 3. 4. undertake a thorough consultation on this law, and here I have a record of this meeting as well as the participants of this meeting. And the record says they support it. They made three proposals for a supplement, and all three of us prepared them in the amendment form and put them on the committee. It's all been there. Now, of course, you can explain to each other what this thorough treatment is, I don't know, 2 hours, 3 hours, 5 hours, 10 hours so that only one can speak or anyone can speak. All those who attended the meeting had the opportunity and the opportunity to come forward, but the signatures guaranteed their presence and then the conclusions. See, a top athlete after a completed sports career needs some adjustment time, although athletes quickly adapt, those top athletes, faster than us; this has been proven many times. But they still need some time to adjust to a different life, to a "civil" life. This is not the last time in a public presentation of the resolution of the national sport programme they have told themselves about the difficulties they face, and we can enable them to make it easier for them to survive this time, to survive less trauma if they have any resources to do so, and this means that they can save themselves during their careers. See, there are many sad cases when such athletes were on the verge of survival or even had to help them through some social networks or social assistance. I have them written here. I'm not going to read them because my ethics won't allow me to talk about these people, but these are the best athletes standing on the pedestal of the sport throne. They were at the top, world champions and so on, they were like that. Of course, sports careers can also be regarded as working hours. Yeah, but the athlete has to pay for it himself. He has to pay for this contribution. What if he doesn't get the money from employers, clubs and societies where they work? What if he doesn't get it? You know what happens to them? They don't even have basic social security then. That's what's been going on. When the Cimos handball club collapsed, those who were independent sports workers received no personal income for a year but had to pay all their contributions. All contributions had to be paid to the State but did not receive personal income. You know, they didn't play any worse; I think they even won the last game, and that's an important game. Yeah, they're training programs, but they're not just for athletes, they're for everyone. So of course it's done a lot here, but not just for athletes, it's done for everyone and for the entire population. True, we know that an athlete, we speak for top athletes, during his career, that excellence in his sports career, cannot attend education, can't. He can't! He can't even go to practice, he can't listen to lectures and so on, and, of course, we've also proposed this study remotely. Universities have to do this on their own, but it is an incentive for the state and us to encourage them to do so. As far as I know, 30 of our athletes are involved in such education through the University of Denmark. There's 30 of them. I know a lot about certain specialties that are in other countries. I know well that such funds are available and that athletes can put certain funds that are not taxed into these funds. That's what those countries are encouraging. I know about Germany. I know about France. And only so much because it goes public also that no one would think, because I have already seen on these social networks that I, as the first-signed, am fighting for my son to be able to work in this marriage – why not, if he is a top athlete, but no, he cannot because he is not a resident here. So I personally am not fighting for my son, but for all the athletes and athletes in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The amendment that we are considering deserves, in my opinion, the utmost attention. However, I would like to stress above all that this is a so-called parliamentary law. It's an emissary law. Let me say that, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak, President of the Party, signed it. And I have a feeling, and I don't want to do anyone any wrong, but at least to the Ministry or to the Government, that the government has somehow addressed this parliamentary law with a low respekt, and somehow it really feels like the government just swung and rejected this law with its left hand. It may be true that the text in some part of the law is inconsistent to require some editorial corrections, but I think that all colleagues and colleagues understand the spirit of this law. And look, we often say that our top athletes are our best ambassadors. So that we don't just talk in phrases, let's do something for these top athletes. I must say that my heart broke when Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, came to the Committee on Foreign Policy with proposals for the Republic of Slovenia to close certain diplomatic missions. We have closed several of them, which means that Slovenia has withdrawn from certain destinations. In some ways the name Slovenia or Slovenia as such has narrowed down in the global world. We all know that the world, the global world, through top athletes, especially through the top achievements of Slovenian athletes, first meets the name Slovenia and begins to wonder where this Slovenia is, and begins to take an interest in the characteristics of people, residents and so on. That is why we say and rightly say that the top athletes are ambassadors of this country. And what exactly do we want with this law? It's the bridge insurance of professional athletes. In some ways, we want to enable and encourage them to save when they are at the height of their sports careers. Saving, encouraging, in itself, is a very good virtue. Of course, a sportsman can probably save when he's really at the top. And that's what we want to do. We call on the country in this law to realise, however, the stimulation of this maintenance through tax reliefs. We want this whole mechanism to be transparent, transparent, and I don't know what's so terribly bad or unacceptable about the government. I think it is time for the government, despite the fact that it has already said its position, but it will not be a great sin if it changes it, that somehow together with the consensus of the National Assembly and the Government we do something good for Slovenian athletes. As far as the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – is concerned, of course, this law has all the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u112	In the field of sport, we have poor and outdated legislation in Slovenia. Many times, when I visit a sports competition, I talk to many athletes who are suffering from a variety of problems in Slovenia, not only when they say what tax burdens or burdens are abroad. They also talk about the problem of studying. Some top athlete can't study and it's not right that he's being punished for being a top athlete. I would therefore like to say once again that we want an implementation plan, a resolution on the national sport programme for this year, from the Ministry responsible for sport as soon as possible. I told you before: we're at the end of May and in a hurry. When we put signatures under the draft law on bridging insurance in our parliamentary group, we were aware, and the agreement was that the law would have to be rectified through the treatment process. I was particularly pleased by the unity of the groups of Members. Nevertheless, we generally agreed that marriage was good, needed, and that waiting was not the right way. We must also agree, somehow, that only a few governments, whatever they were, have worked effectively and well to date in the field of sport. The debate on the committees that contained this item on the agenda was broad, broad, long. Many coordination meetings were also organized. At the previous regular meeting of the National Assembly, this point was postponed and additional time was earned for coordination and discussion. At the same time, it is worth noting once again that the law has been written by athletes, those who know what the real problems are, and they have come to us in good faith that this will be resolved as soon as possible. We've been waiting too many years, and I think today is the last time we accept this. However, in order to wait now, say, for six months, like the Government's proposal or one of the parliamentary groups, we cannot agree at all. In fact, the government is already in the process of resigning and it is difficult for it to prepare anything concrete after six months, given that it does not provide even the majority in the National Assembly. And this waiting only prolongs this agony facing Slovenian sport since independence. If I were to end up joking a little bit, I think the Chinese would have changed the government before the government would have prepared this law for me or the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. I ask that we discuss as properly as possible and focus on the law. I don't mean you, Mr Pukšič, but given some of the comparisons that have been made before you, I think it would be good to be as calm as possible. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much. It is true that another light - year would have passed before the government could remember and do good for our athletes. So this time it is kind of easy to discuss and it is not difficult to discuss here because, as far as this law is concerned, it is supported by Members and Members of the National Assembly. And if we had more laws like that, it would be different in our country. This time the law, as it is proper, will, of course, be passed by the law of Members and Members. I believe there will be another extraordinary session where we can support it in our third reading. This time bureaucracy will not be able to stop something good, and with some approximations on the side, if it is missing and so on — about some form, but not content at all. And if anything else is needed, it will be corrected in the third reading. I am pleased that we will finally have the law on bridging insurance for our best professional athletes so that they can make up for what they missed during the bloom of youth. But this flower of youth has been distributed for this country. If this country does not even step up to them to allow them certain tax reliefs when these funds are collected, both by themselves and by certain individuals or clubs, of course, it is unacceptable. But it's for bureaucrats who then become quasi-politics, and when, of course, it's unacceptable because it doesn't spin in their circles anymore, and of course they don't have everything under control anymore. This also shows one of the other problems we face in the country. I agree that everything needs to be done as best as possible and that it needs to be carefully thought out, considered and so on, but it cannot go on indefinitely, as I said before, for the length of any solar year. That's essentially state-of-the-art. Of course, the government does not go to the head so that something like this can happen. However, such a government, which is in a departure that does not have a majority, which of course does not have the confidence of citizens and citizens who have brought the country to the brink, cannot do anything more than this, and I am glad that we Members of this call will make a good story for citizens. This is a state-of-the-art act and this law has been enacted, along with these amendments. We are also cosigners in the Slovenian People's Party, and we will be very happy to support it today. Of course, it is less than a national action, when you distribute a million or more money among your cousins, brothers and so on, and the state money, we have nothing of it today. We had an interpolation on this subject. And if ambassadors and Members were to be united at that time, of course many should have left their seats there in the government, but they say that a rod is coming for each ass; and for these too it is coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. First, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik applied for the debate as a motioner and then I reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Just so that it doesn't come true that we don't want a good marriage. Of course we do. And that is why we were prepared to accept all the comments and to table amendments. She's a magician's colleague. Majda Potrat, who is not here, has probably overlooked that we have deleted Article 3 in this amendment, which is before us today. So that incoherence observation doesn't hold. This has been corrected and corrected accordingly. Also, the fact that we had certain meetings with the Ministry's professional services is true. We talked, we talked. However, the law for which it was written for these tax reliefs cannot be changed because it is the purpose of the law. However, the Ministry had this point of view. So the marriage goes down if it wasn't for that. We have adapted, I have attached myself, also to the committee, also to the meeting of the National Assembly, precisely because we have held this debate with national industry associations and all these stakeholders in sport. During the time of Minister Lukšič, the lawmakers withdrew the law in order to prepare themselves. Four or three years ago, the same law — at the time the draft law — withdrew in order to prepare itself, and it did not exist at that time, nor did it have enough energy or momentum. The law applies to all athletes; it says so in the law itself. Sport societies are encouraged by this law to hire athletes, as many athletes as possible. Today we are talking about the register of 10 thousand athletes registered in the register, which is owned by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, but is 200. And by encouraging sports companies with this tax relief to hire as many athletes as possible, more money will also come into the tax box. More money will come into the tax box because more athletes will be hired because societies will be stimulated to hire athletes. Therefore, they will improve their status. And that's the system law. Of course, it does not solve the whole sport issue in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, also wanted the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to refer here to Article 8, paragraph 1, because it has been said that it is a bridge insurance for athletes who finish sports activities for such or other reasons during a certain period. This means that we could then continue on a professional journey, one way or another, so that at this time, when we were on our way out of our sports course, we could, by virtue of the right that comes from the bridging insurance, that is to say, with this money, help ourselves along this path. However, Article 8, now amended, states that this right can only be exercised after 30 years of age. And if you remember what Mr Jerovšek said about Tina Maze's case years ago, that she wanted to end up, but if you remember almost 20 years ago, when our Queen of Winter Sports was then, I won't name her, because we know who she was, she ended up at 22 or 23 years old, but not because of her medical inability or injury, that is, by 30 years of this bridge insurance right could not benefit. In this case, then, can we really talk about bridging insurance so that someone from a sports career can become a professional career so that he can help himself with this money on the way? How can a person wait seven years for this right if the athlete does not end up in these two categories, as recorded, namely medical incapacity or injury? These things need to be warned, these things need to be looked at. So it's not bridge, it's not a transitional insurance. And before that, it was said by one of the fellow Members that it was a symbolic act for athletes, that we should do a symbolic act. Yes, but we do this not for all athletes, but only for some athletes who have certain statuses. That's what you need to be careful about. And that's why it's about non-systemicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, do you want to be a proponent? For Mrs Ramshak, of course. Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I can see that chivalry is still in place in this national council. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Vice-President! I have to say, I'm kind of surprised at all those who don't support this marriage in the National Assembly. I've been committed to sports my whole life, just like my family. I myself have been an active athlete and I know what it means to be an athlete, especially what our professional athletes or professional athletes must give up. To what Mr Kurnjek is a principle, I would say: Mr Kurnjek, there is an ever-increasing age limit when active professional athletes end their professional career. In fact, the whole way of training, healthy nutrition and other factors affect that only a few professional athletes and athletes decide to stop active or professionally engaging in sport at the earliest age you mentioned in the case in 22. There may be a small proportion of women here, because girls usually want to form their families when it comes to falling in love, but then they return to their professional sports careers, and that too must be accepted in this context. That is why I absolutely support the proposal of the proposer, under which I have been most pleased to sign myself, and I hope that by means of this law we prove that, if we come together, Members and Members, we can do something useful not only for the athlete but perhaps for another area as well, and that perhaps in the next term we can reach consensus in other areas as well. How important it is for athletes to arrange for them their status or to provide them with this bridge insurance. We are always proud and boast of the achievements of our athletes. For me, the best ambassadors abroad and in the world to promote our country. By the time they reach the top results, we are proud of them and identify ourselves with them, but when they receive some awards, recognitions and so forth in material or financial form, then again the Slovenian ones will appear, I will say, the pity and quickly forget what these athletes had to give up, even so that we can be proud of them and that sport is one category that should be encouraged as early as childhood, that certain sports industries, where professional careers begin at perhaps 10 years old. These are some of the top athletes, who are also in Parliament, who know even better than I do. Certain sports industries are the ones that allow you to take longer part in active top sports. I will gladly support both the amendments and the law itself, and I believe that it will prevail over reason and also the sincere purpose of the proposers of this law. The material has been extremely professionally and very transparently prepared, and with these amendments, which address some of the shortcomings, I think the law should receive support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the replica, and Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor to propose.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u122	Look, Mrs Ramšak, I wanted to point out in good faith that the proposal for a law very clearly prescribes a limit of 30 years. But it is the exclusive right of each individual athlete to stop his sports activities and for any reason. That's for the athlete to decide for himself. However, the cross-border or transitional or whatever we call this proposal of the law does not allow it to draw rights before the age of 30. But look, then this purpose, which is to bridge the insurance of professional athletes – I might even say that it would be better for athletes – guided for some. For some. The ones who make up their minds, you've changed women. Yeah, a woman can decide to have a baby and, for the sake of the child, she ends up on a sports trip. As a reason for maternity, the bill does not state that this person who has ceased to pursue a sport course will be entitled to the exercise of his right. Look, that's what the law says. I'm just reading it, interpreting it, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Now we're talking about Article 8, interesting. Article 8 is not an amendment at all. Now we're talking about some -- I think we're going through all the things the National Assembly allows. We have rules of procedure and we know what we can talk about. We're talking about amendments, not what the law says, or we won't get to the end today, not tomorrow. We had a committee. We talked on the board. Interestingly, Mr Kurnjek, my colleague, you did not have any comments on the committee, not one. In the end, you just said you wouldn't support the marriage, and that was it. This was your contribution, and you've probably been waiting for today to be able to say what's bothering you in front of the cameras. That's incorrect, that's not right. We have taken all the suggestions into account. It was originally written down for 35 years. We had written for 35 years because at such a time the athlete was supposed to somehow finish – but of course, the exceptions that I would then talk about if we were talking about now – the sports career and then we could raise some funds, raise some money into this fund so that we could then benefit from these funds. But if that happens, we have an expert committee to decide. And I have now passed through, and I myself have fallen into this story, but only to say that these exceptions are possible, but then the tax is paid not only 30%, but like all other citizens. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik as a proposaler, thank you for your debate, but I would like to tell you that in all the debates, given that we are talking about Article 1 and the amendment tabled, and that, in general, article 1 in most laws is quite general, even in this law, a somewhat broader debate has been allowed. That is why I did not limit myself as chairman of the debate or the meeting of the National Assembly to anyone, except when it came to some of the discussions that were going in the direction of insult. Of course, I understand that, as a proposaler, you want to discuss as much as possible the actual article in the debate. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1? Otherwise, I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. I am putting to the debate Article 2.a and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Who wants to talk about Article 2a? Since it does not want to, I am closing the debate on Article 2.a. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk about Article 10? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate by Article 28. I am putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 37 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 40 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. I don't see a desire for a debate, so I'm closing the debate. Of course, most amendments were also of a nomotechnic nature, so there was probably no need for further discussion. I am putting to the debate the article 40.b and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on this Article. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. I hereby end this agenda item and thank everyone for the discussions. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the determination of catastronomic income within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal of the Magi Act. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u126	Dear Secretary of State, President, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! In June 2013, the new Cadastrian Income Law came into force, on the basis of which Gurs would each year, on the basis of calculations, in particular on the basis of average crop prices, on the basis of material consumption and the purchase value of basic assets and certain other calculating elements, propose a cadastral income scale that would apply to the current year and would, of course, be accounted for. These calculations and these scales, and this should be done in April, and since these scales have not yet been published for 2014, and it is not clear what cadastral income tax payers should pay for this year's cadastral income, of course the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has put this novelty into the procedure. These current novelties provide that the old cadastral income values or those paid for 2013 are maintained for 2014 and 2015. Why? I will not repeat for long and wide that this government really sees no other than the tax burden on all those who work and create in this country. As far as the economy is concerned, we have already experienced and felt a lot when we are talking about raising VAT, including raising some other taxes and tax burdens such as excise duties, but, of course, this novelty in June 2013 has also led to farmers or all those owners who have cadastral income based on agricultural land, with relatively confused calculations, as if in Slovenia the ideal production conditions are that parcels are large and can be achieved with an enviable market impact. If this year's entry into force of this novel, which was adopted last year by this government on departure, it would be worth about 6 times as much money as it has so far, which means that Slovenian farmers would not only be a farmer, but also a number of others who process Slovenian land and own it several times as much. In fact, on behalf of the applicants, I am pleased that the government and the coalition have seen that it is not going so easily, and that is why it has attached our novel, which means that the cadastral income will remain the way it has been. At the same time, it is worth noting that we have a major problem in Slovenia, which is also pointed out by foreign countries and which is extremely damaging to us when we talk about an attractive business environment, and not least when we are talking about some possibility that farmers as producers should behave in a long-term and developmental manner. This is the predictability or unpredictability of the tax environment in our case. How can a respected farmer invest in the modernisation of his farm, in irrigation, in counter-protection, when he does not know what lies ahead of him in respect of taxes next year or years thereafter? Indeed, the State may increase its tax burden several times during the night, and it cannot in any way increase the sales prices of its product several times. A typical example of this cadastral income has also occurred when we are talking about grape and wine producers, as well as fruit growers, when their burdens have increased dramatically, and no one has even been able to tell exactly why such calculations have occurred, which means that we have a significant under-verified calculation. Respected, if the Government is already in the process of renovating the tax system, let us move on so that things are clear and predictable for the future, but not that there will be some uncertainty, for any uncertainty of the taxpayer means that this taxpayer will not invest in development, will not invest in updates and will actually abandon what he is doing. A typical example is wine growing. Look, we also have vineyards broken down in relatively non-problematic positions. Who else will do this if you charge him? Only the countryside will grow even more. Dearly beloved, this novelty of our law is a step towards tax burdening those who create without burden, and that we have a much more transparent tax system and tax burden in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and also submitted a report. To present the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman, who I find is unfortunately not in the Chamber at this time. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Mitji Mavka.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u128	Madam Vice President, a nice greeting to all present, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is true that the system of calculation of cadastral income was recently changed, which introduced a new methodology for coordinating the calculations of cadastral income in Slovenia. However, it is worth noting that the previous system, which was in force until 2011, was based on the 1979 system. It would certainly be difficult to say that this is some modern calculation of cadastral income, so that the change from last year to 1979 is a departure from the modern system of catastrotic income determination, it is likely difficult to claim. In this place, however, as a Government, we do not deny certain problems that have arisen in the calculation of cadastral income. This is a special working group of the Government, which was appointed to prepare a thorough analysis of the new system, also found, and it would be appropriate to narrow down the key shortcomings of the system envisaged by the new law in three points. The first relates to the relatively high complexity of the methodology, which also leads to a certain opacity, and due to the high response of the model to data changes, fluctuations in calculations can be substantially changed. At the second point, it should be noted that the quality of certain input data, in particular statistics on the volume and intensity of production by statistical regions, is of particular concern. However, the third set of findings reached by the working group relates to the fact that it would probably be difficult for some thorough ventilation of the system to implement only the revisions of the existing system, but the Government supported the preparation of a comprehensive new law. During this interim period, a group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, proposed a law which, for an interim period, adequately prolongs the transitional period in force in 2013. That is why the Government supports the proposal of the law. However, it proposed that the transitional period should be extended until 2016 by amendments adopted on the home working body. In this way, we believe that we have enough time to prepare in peace a new stable, modern cadastral income law that will ensure adequate predictability and also fair taxation in line with the expected benefits of actual use. The government also suggested that no new calculations should be made in the interim period, as they are not necessary if we are merely extending the transitional period. As mentioned above, the Government supports the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 24th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 19 May 2014. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I'm asking if there's a desire to discuss it. Opening login option. I'm asking you to sign up. The government has also signed up for the debate. Mr. Robby Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. If, first of all, in the introduction, I propose an amendment to Article 2. Slovenia's agricultural holdings are characterised by very large fragmentation and therefore the actual use rate changes rapidly by more than 20% according to the land area. We propose that this share of the actual use be changed by more than 50%. As far as the amendment is concerned, I don't think it should be controversial here. Maybe there's something more I can say about the marriage itself. Although the cadastral income law is a formal law that falls within the area of finance, it refers to the Slovenian farmer, the forest owners, the winegrowers. This is first of all a law that should be closely monitored by the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Židan, and, of course, allow for the most transparent, fair system or methodology that would ultimately bring this tax calculation. One year passes from the first presentation of the calculations according to the new methodology of the cadastral income. We all know that the calculations showed — once they were extremely high numbers, the second they were extremely low. And what happened? The opposition of farmers, wine growers, forest owners, and so on, they lined up one after the other. If the proposal for a cadastral income bill prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party were not adopted, this would mean that farmers, forest owners, vineyard farmers should pay EUR 113 million in 2014 instead of the bad 50 tax, as paid in 2013. You know, a double increase in cadastral income would be a big blow for a farmer. What do we want in the Slovenian Democratic Party with this bill? We just want to establish fair and proportionate taxation for the Slovenian farmer and thus ensure its existence and functioning in the future. That was our purpose, and we have adapted the bill to that. The main solution is the provision of a preliminary solution for determining the KD for 2014 and 2015 – The government has also proposed for 2016 and, of course, we agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party – in a way that this will be the same as KD for 2013. We are also shortening the period during which Gurs has to verify compliance of calculations with the level of productivity of agricultural and forestry activities from five to three years. Here it is now necessary to stop and wonder whether, in this mandate, we have done everything in this government's mandate to develop agriculture, for forest owners, what we have done for vineyards, or whether politics, agricultural policy was leading towards ensuring the best possible conditions for working for these people. I think that, you know, raising taxes, trying to enforce real estate tax and more, and we could also list it – it seems to me that this is easy for the development of agriculture, for agriculture as a sector is certainly not right. If we add to this the extremely high penalties that have been imposed in this mandate in the area of agriculture and the environment, and if we add to this the poor absorption of cohesion resources, water supply, wastewater treatment and so on, we can really say that this mandate in the field of agriculture and the environment has failed or failed. Look, even in this area, with the cadastral income — if you didn't bring me this law, what would happen? Without this law, farmers would pay substantially more than they will pay now that this law has been enforced. Of course, the question now is what KD will be like after 2016. This represents one great uncertainty, great uncertainty, and we would expect you to at least roughly point the direction, say, methodology, and also later how it will be accounted for and what numbers will come out of this law after 2016. Look, I agree here with the representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber that the key role in the tax assessment, we are talking about KD, should play a credit rating, that is, the real potential of the land as it is and from which you can create certain production, but of course also income. This is the key role the ratings must play, and then income will come and, of course, this regional location from which it comes. The country should, indeed, do much more to improve the situation in agriculture. We lack adequate agricultural policy measures in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here I am thinking mainly about the vision of development, relevant legislation, simplification of rules from agricultural areas. As I said at the outset, this law is in the field of finance, but it is more of an intervention of the Minister of Agriculture, and it is he who must tell farmers in the end: now you will pay so much and so much more, say, cadastral income. I think it's right that we should say something about this on this occasion. We all know, however, that the social, economic situation of a farmer is deteriorating year after year. And that's wrong. You have to do everything you can to stop it. We expect appropriate agricultural policy measures from the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. Today, we add only one stone to the mosaic of emergency measures, because the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law follows the principle of proportionality by adapting these new calculations to real levels of income. We are pleased that the Ministry of Finance in our proposal has recognized the right direction, the right purpose, and finally, just before the end of the mandate, the obvious coalition will also support one proposal of the opposition law. It's a shame that the coalition of this practice hasn't been used before. I think that the situation of Slovenia at this time would be significantly better and we could really talk about a slow exit from the crisis. At least this is not how we can say this in the area of agriculture and the environment. The situation is getting worse, and we are convinced that the measures that we have proposed were quite a few, the one that says that we would go towards improving the status and socio-economic position of the Slovenian farmer and also the owner of the forests, and that would be the right direction that we missed in this mandate. But it's nice that at least the last marriage we adopt in this way will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ah, and the government, I'm sorry. They've been reported before, and then I'm gonna open up a sign-in circle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe just a brief comment on the amendment's proposal first. The Government does not, for example, have a very strong view of support or support for the proposal. The data from the Geodetics Authority show that the proportion of changes in actual use over 20% is relatively small. While the amendment proposal reduces the accuracy of the cadastral income, it is already relatively flat-rately established today. We believe that the proposed proposal will not lead to significant impacts. However, it should be noted that the change to the owner of the parcel is practically cost-effective. The owner of the parcel with the change does not have any costs. That's what the Geodetic Authority notes. Dear Mr Hrvat drew attention to a lack of guidance on cadastral income in advance. I did not want to point this out on purpose in the opening presentation, because it would probably be uncreditable for the government to talk about some broad-based policies in advance when leaving, but it is right to say that technical work based on a new system of cadastral income is under way. At technical level, we expect this month's working group to conclude its work on possible proposals. In view of the current state of the spirit in the working group, the design of the new system should be based on an assessment of the net added value distributed by land, which means that the rating you mentioned or the quality of the land would be taken into account in the calculation of the cadastral income. But, as mentioned above, when the proposal is ready – perhaps a new government will be defined – we do not imagine that the proposal would go forward without public discussion, and we certainly believe that by 2016 there is more than enough time to carry out a thorough debate and to design a good, stable and predictable new system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u134	Your Honor! With these words of the Secretary of State, I would like to raise my voice as a proposaler and draw attention to one problem that arises both from our attempt to correct, and not least from the philosophy of calculating the cadastral income or taxation of the land or what we produce on this land. See, if taxation is not predictable, predictable for a medium-term period, then it will be difficult for any farmer on this land to invest and update his production. That the novelty of the law, which introduced a drastic increase in cadastral income last year, was unthinkable, showed mainly calculations when we are talking about vineyards and wine producers. Indeed, it has been shown that in some this cadastral income is expected to increase by up to 10 times. Up to 10 times as much should be paid by grape and wine growers, and this proposer and this legislator did not even take into account the specifics of grapes and wine producers in Slovenia. For example, I live in the municipality of Brežice, divided by Sava, two wine-growing environments – in fact, even two wine-growing countries or wine-growing countries are Posavska and two wine-growing areas, that is, valley and bizel-sremish, with the characteristic of this wine-growing work, that they are extremely fragmented parcels, vineyards and that it is in some way a way of life. There is rarely anyone who deals with wine growing, except for some major producers, from some profitable purposes, but is engaged in because the vineyards have inherited, they have vineyards, and they process this beautiful Slovenian landscape, people. Most of these vine growers are elderly and do so out of some obligation, including some love. If you tax these people on the basis of the net added value in the future, then we will have an even more fertile Slovenian landscape. For this man does not market wine after some calculations, as the first calculation predicted, which means that these calculations in these cases are completely useless and nonlife. And if you tax these producers, then these producers will leave the vineyards, and instead of having these few cadastral income fiches, as gathered today, you will have nothing. Worse still, we will have damage because instead of arranged vineyards we will have an ingrown, abandoned landscape, which also harms tourism and many others. So I warn you, when you work and prepare a new model, let this one be stable in the long run. I am not saying that the existing system, especially the one we now maintain in life, is modern, but is in some ways tax-friendly and most have no problems with it. And when you go into change, I warn you: not to go headless and not to go overnight, as it was meant to be done here. Especially take into account the specifics in Slovenia, there is a fragmentation of properties and parcels and, last but not least, a bunch of lovers in working the Slovenian land. I have a vineyard myself, about a thousand 200 vines. I process it myself, with my family, and there are many farmers around me who also grow. There they had some family vineyards to be part of their family expenses — instead of buying wine, these were small vineyards. And it's farmers that remind me of the completely damaged rationality of production, and they do it more or less out of family obligation. It's not worth, in short, processing it if it's not a basic activity and you don't really concentrate on it 100 percent and professionally, which is not enough for such little squabbles as we have. I want to tell you that if the tax burden on these matters increases significantly, such as your proposal or the proposal of this government last year, which we did not impose on luck last year, and also for this year and next year – so if this were to happen, it would certainly be due to lower tax inflows because these people would abandon production. It is said that we would no longer be reputable taxpayers, cutting down vineyards. As a result, they would change their actual use and likely fall into a completely different ladder or another load. In the Cadastrian Income Law, I miss that these particulars also do little work, which is not really specific, but are a general fact. If I look on the other side – I'm from the bizel-sremish environment – if I look at, say, Dolenjsko, the country of the flowering plant, as we like to say, in fact, in the promotion of the plant, there was a huge amount of work done on the fact that the drill is a way of life and the production of wine, as well as the processing of vineyards, is an integral part of the life of these people. There you have large manufacturers and you have some ten or a hundred times more lovers. Taxation for one and the other may be generally the same, but if you do, the loving producers will no longer be able to do so. Because they can't sell their wine and they don't have the same profit as those few professionals who do. Therefore, in these calculations, I cannot imagine a solution without some kind of – as we have some general relief in income, which means a lot to those small ones who produce little, lowering their tax burden, I can hardly imagine that we would not have a kind of relief that would mean much in particular to those small ones. For if you strike everything on average and much, believe me, it will be taken away again, because men will not deal with it. I know less about other cultures, but if general direction is similar to grapes and wine, then this is the wrong way to do more damage than benefit. So if this specification is not taken into account, there will be a problem; I think we will do more harm than good. There's something else I'd like to say, and that's predictability. I've done this a few times before, and I've never said it to the end of my mind. Be, for example, a young takeover on a farm and decide whether you will go to an update of your orchard or vineyard. You have a market today, you have everything, you have a relatively outdated plantation, and you know you need to go into reconstruction. And you're even offered some possibility of expansion, it's said we'd have more processing surfaces. And then someone comes along with a marriage that threatens. In fact, if we do not accept today or if we do not accept this novelty, it will impose a significantly higher tax this year than it was last year. So this man on the one hand is threatened with a substantial increase in his tax burden and does not know if he will, when or what his new model will be. And now he decides on an investment that will credit his family, his farm. And in these unpredictable, unstable situations, how do you expect someone to invest in upgrading or updating farms and their production, with us full of mouths about the need for self-sustainment? We are all aware that much more needs to be done in stable production, i.e. on the protection measures against the flow, that irrigation systems need to be done – see what weather changes we have. Recent ice men and Zofka have done a lot of damage, at least in Posavje, when talking about broken and damaged plantations. How, then, can you expect someone to invest under such unforeseen circumstances? Therefore, when you are making changes in the taxation of land or when we are working on legislation on the determination of cadastral income, you really need to have a stable transition to a new system, slow, predictable and, last but not least, timely communication to those who will also use this system. It is impossible to expect farmers and others to invest in agricultural production if they do not know what will happen tomorrow. This is how today, respecters, few economic operators hope to invest in development and modernisation in view of extremely volatile times and also unpredictable tax burdens. Once we have a property tax, the second time we don't have it, the third time we have something waiting for us again, and no one knows what. At the same time, I would strongly recommend to the Government that it actually takes into account the specifics of small farmers, small farmers, which have a significant impact on the regulation of Slovenian landscape and the treatment of Slovenian land, including in these fragmented parcels. Secondly, if a new system of cadastral income is introduced, it should be introduced gradually that all those potential taxpayers will have some certainty as to the tax burden on them in the medium or long term.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I am now opening the possibility of applying for other debaters as well. I'm asking you to sign up. We have three panellists reported. The first is Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Given the fact that the Government is in the process of leaving, we are in fact fortunately reminded at least in the SDS that we are proposing a small, short law containing only new transitional provisions, but I have the feeling that if such a policy on the part of the government, no matter which officials are breaking with their slow mills, it will continue in the future. In short, this government, and above all Minister of the Jews, has unfortunately left quite a few open questions for the future minister. For the last time in another debate, I asked him that it might not be bad to be a minister in the new government for punishment, because, as much as he tried to close the individual open questions, he opened them from day to day. And maybe just to list some of them: forest concessions, chimney concessions, real estate taxes, fines, carriers. In short, one unfortunately delayed mandate of this government, when things could at least begin to resolve themselves, but unfortunately they have begun to open, not to solve. I recall when we met at the emergency meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance in early June and we wanted to resolve as soon as possible the open question raised by the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Act of 2012, when we found at the last moment that the implementation of this law would in practice lead to the collapse of Slovenian agriculture, whether it is wine growing, beekeeping or other varieties, since in particular areas it would be more than ten times higher to raise the cadastral income. At that time, once for a change in this mandate, we agreed on the types, we proposed an ad hoc law, which was almost adopted on the last day, the next day it came into force that we could make the law operational, and even then the government took its share and adopted a solution in the transitional provisions, with which everything remained the same, but plus an additional 10%. And here I agree with my predecessor, Andre, when he said that agriculture is as much an area of the economy as it is an area of the economy, that if it is subject to new taxes, there will be no higher earnings, but less earnings. Unfortunately, in this area, we can see that this smaller yield will show up so that the Slovenian land, which is unfortunately already overgrown, is even more healed and more desolate. It is obvious that, given that the Government is carrying out ongoing business, perhaps this is also an excuse that it does not have to prepare a new law, and therefore I must say that we are quite fortunate that it has not done so, because if on 1 June she remembered that she had another open question, she would probably bring into the National Assembly a law that would otherwise have had this system as an initial note, but would probably give another additional raise, probably 10 or 20%, which Slovenian farmers would have paid. The problem is that, unfortunately, nothing has been done this year to discuss some permanent, concrete solutions instead of these transitional provisions that we are considering today. The Geodetic Authority developed a new calculation system or a new methodology, and then everything was quiet. Perhaps the Secretary of State will say whether the management of the Geodetic Authority has done something in this direction to perhaps check or rewind all these data that it has brought to the desk of decision-makers so that they can then, in my view, be more difficult to decide, whether the role of both the Ministry of Finance and the Minister, who is supposed to take care of agriculture, i.e. Mr Židan, in the first place. Unfortunately, we came again the day before, when the competent ministers obviously cannot consider each other who will be the one who will roll up his sleeves or who will be the one who will make order in this area. Yesterday we had a Pinkponk in the National Assembly between Minister Cuffer and Minister Omerzel, but unfortunately today we do not have a Pinkponk between Minister Jew and Minister Cuffer to deal with, who and how will prepare a law that will not be of a transitional nature, but will be a concrete law. And I hope that the new minister, who will act in favour of the Slovenian farmer, will not raise his hands and give the Minister of Finance to take care of himself as he wishes. The calculations will be made, and he will pay a Slovenian farmer anyway. Not only the case of wine growing, which was amended by law in 2012 and then in 2013, but mainly by beekeepers are those who started shouting and screaming. I have to say that as many calls as I got last year, almost a year ago, about the Cadastrian Income Act, I didn't get from any law. This amendment, which we are talking about today, may, as the Secretary of State has said, be irrelevant, but you know when there is practice or implementation, but any number can mean a new life story, especially in agriculture, where there is already a problem because of the fragmentation of the land, and if we, as a politician, give meaningless or non-lifely articles into individual legislation, we make this agricultural policy much worse. Just this weekend, a big farmer told me that he felt that farmers in the field, instead of becoming more operational, more working, became so-called, I think he said a bureaucratic prayer. We are changing legislation, and they have to do all of this and deal with it. And the issue of cadastral income also has one major dilemma, in what way or how farmers will decide to carry out their tax burden.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u137	Mr. Fox, I'm sorry, but let's discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u138	Sure. And that is also why, because we are proposing an amendment, given the problem of Slovenian fragmented land, we think it is right to raise it from 20% to 50%. If the government is a bit lifelike, but not as much as agricultural policy has been in recent times, here I am pointing not only at the Minister of the Jews, but at those major decision makers in Slovenian agriculture, where I feel that big stories are happening back there, and the problem comes to small farmers. With this amendment, we are also trying to deal with or deal with this issue of the Slovenian farmer, where the fragmentation of the land or its lands is even more evident than in some comparative European countries. In short, the Ministry of Finance, be practical and support our amendment, and this amendment will also be a little easier for the Slovenian farmer. Thank you, however, for taking another year of time and, despite the new systems of calculation of the Slovenian farmer for another year, protecting the difficulties likely to be brought by the new systems or new methodology for calculating the cadastral income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. You'll get procedural. I would really like to warn the Members and Members once again that the general debate has already been held. We are on second reading of the law and we are discussing the amendment tabled by the SDS. Please hold on to this. Otherwise, I'm going to interrupt you all the time. Mr Han has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Despite your warning, I must make a procedural suggestion that you stick strictly to what you have said. Now I'm going to tell the Slovenian public. I just don't have the nerve, either. You have entered into the marriage, ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, and now you are trying to fight this nation out of five veins! We support you here anyway. I don't understand! You make amendments to your marriage and argue with each other and argue about who's more guilty, who's less guilty. It's just not fair! All the parties in this House have said that they support this law. All the customers said they were backing this amendment, but you're fighting with no one. Please! Mr. Lisec, I know it's time for the elections, you will be elected by farmers in the Sevonica, not to worry, but not to argue with the people who support this law at this moment. And it is not fair for you to now draw on the plan of the Minister of the Jews, who supports your proposal. It's not fair! Let us hold on to at least this month a little political culture, not least a college culture. If we have agreed on one matter that we will support, because you have made this proposal, please do not work a contradiction where it does not exist. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, I ask you once again to hold strictly to really try to maintain order in this Chamber, because it is not fair what some Members of the SDS are doing that moment, who are fighting with whom I do not know – this moment with themselves because they have tabled the law and also the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you so much for backing up my previous words. I hope I don't have to go so hard on my word anymore. Now I give the floor to Mrs Ivy Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I support both the amendment and the law itself tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. But it is true that much is said about the cadastral income, especially when the month of June comes. We know that this story is being drawn from 2011, then 2012, 2013, ahead of us is 2014 for the calculation, so I support that somehow the calculation is maintained for 2014 and 2015. At that time, I hope that this National Assembly will have so much cooperation and common desire for the welfare of the Slovenian farmer, to protect the Slovenian farmer, to adopt a law that will be somehow balanced for all. Since actual farmers are in uncertainty, they do not know what awaits them in the future, and we can say that someone has not done his job in all these years. I asked the representatives of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia last year, on the basis of which they calculated certain ratings or rating classes, because instead of the cadastral classes, credit classes are envisaged for the new calculation, instead of cultures, the actual use of land. As a member of the Christian Democrats, I cannot agree that he has, I can say, one field in the Blocks or in Rotta, which is more than 800 metres above sea level, a 5-fold higher cadastral income for calculation, a base than some field in the vicinity of Ljubljana. We know that conditions are completely different, that they have the possibility of cold upstairs, that later seeds of potassium, and that such anomalies have occurred. Just as such anomalies have occurred in the calculation of the cadastral income for forests. Here I also ask, given that the places of Blocke, Notranjska, Rovet, Logatec have been treated somewhat higher, whether this will also be taken into account because of greed and that this cadastral income will actually be – previously it was 13 times higher and now it should be nothing for the coming years. And once again, as I said last time, in the methodology for calculating cadastral income, we really need to take account of natural disasters, but let it go to the acorn, let it go to the snowfall, to the wind, and, as we have seen in recent events, to floods. I think we need to take this into account so that we don't later say that we weren't ready for this to happen. A living man can get away with anything. That is why I support myself, as I have already said, that income for 2014 and 2015 is to be put at the level determined by the level of the cadastral income for 2013. And I expect that in the future such laws, which touch not only the economic situation of farmers, including the social situation of farmers, will be adopted with consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State with co-worker! We are now talking about the amendment to Article 2 of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on the determination of cadastral income. Let me say that the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will of course support this amendment. It's logical. Certainly, for Slovenian agriculture, Slovenian agriculture is characteristic and problematic that we have great fragmentation. I'm not going to discuss what this means in terms of processing costs. Therefore, the actual use of the plot area changes rapidly by more than 20%. It is therefore reasonable to amend this 20% in the amended proposal to 50%. I will not fight; on the contrary, I will stand by Mr Mitja Mavk, Secretary of State, who says that the methodology for determining cadastral income is extremely complex and rather opaque and therefore certainly calls for urgent change. And what else is the problem? They are also problematic, and this has recently been discussed by the Secretary of State, the input data. The reliability of input data is problematic or questionable. As a result, I am concerned that the law is still alive, the law that was passed in 2011. I'm not going to mention which government was then, but the law is still sitting, and it's like there's an ambush waiting for it to start one day. I hope not that this will never happen, but farmers know that we have been doing nothing else for three years than to postpone the validity of this law. The law is still alive, in some latent state, which must be causing some mistrust among farmers, some discomfort. Look, in this context, I would like to remind you of what we have all been reminded of on the day of Europe here for a pay phone at the European Union Affairs Committee, Dr. Gregor Pipan, a prominent entrepreneur, is extremely successful, I can say internationally well-known, who said that a country which for companies – I am also adding agriculture here – does not know the taxes listed on one side, on one A4 paper, is not a good country, because such a country certainly has hidden taxes. How will the farmer, how will the entrepreneur make a calculation for his product or his service, if he does not know how taxes work, what tax bases are, what rates are, and he does not know what will happen tomorrow, because taxes change very quickly with us. As far as the methodology for determining cadastral income is concerned, let me repeat what Slovenian farmers are saying. Slovenian farmers say that agricultural tax experts have capitulated themselves to them in ministries, finance and agriculture, probably after the former Habsburg ruler Maria Teresa, who died on 29 November 1780. If she were still alive, she would surely have whispered in a few hours as an expert on agricultural taxes, how appropriate the regime should be for today, what the methodology for determining cadastral income should be. Remember that we are Members of all the people, we also call ourselves farmers' lives, and remember how specific farmers respond specifically to this law that I have appointed, the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which was adopted in 2011. The one who was last year at the Agra Farm Fair in Gornja Radgona saw a large pile of canes brought by vine growers from all Slovenia to the fair. I believe that even the minister of the Jews was heartbroken there, just as every winegrower was heartbroken when he cut down a vine that he might have raised for decades. This is happening to us, ladies and gentlemen. I observe what is happening in particular in Lendavské gorica, once the largest complex of vineyards in Slovenia, over 620 hectares. Today this area is minus 150 hectares, maybe even minus 180 hectares, and no one reacts. I believe that the owners themselves cannot prevent what is happening to us from happening to the local community. And what's happening to us? Our beautiful nature thrives and the surface of the jungle increases. In Slovenia, the surface of the jungle is increasing. I am deeply concerned, and on this subject, we should respond to this problem, both by means of a government, more intensively than ever before, and by this national assembly. If we want Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian agricultural policy to be an important component of the common European agricultural policy, then we must first draw a clear strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture. According to the Christian Democrats, this should be based on family farms, as Professor Jože Osterc taught us back in 1990. This strategy, or programme for the development of Slovenian agriculture, which he wrote at the time, I am sure is still in force today, perhaps a minor renovation is needed. It would certainly be necessary to agree once on a course, on a programme for the development of Slovenian agriculture, and then all governments and all the constituents of Parliament are actually following that direction, not changing it from a mandate to a mandate. The amendment will be supported by the New Slovenia Group as well as by the law, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can still see the deadlines for the debate, so I am opening the way for the application. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two reported discussers. The first is Mr. Marijan Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say that I support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 2. At the same time, I would like to say that, in the Slovenian Democratic Party and the opposition, we have absolutely nothing to argue about, which is what we are discussing today. We are very happy, and we are aware of the importance of putting this law into parliamentary procedure in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are also happy and aware that it is of great importance that this law will also be adopted, because it is in the interest of Slovenian farmers, Slovenian farmers. And as it was predicted that this law would be confirmed and voted for by all the parliamentary groups, both the coalition and the opposition – I must say that this made me very happy. I am convinced that this is what should last from the beginning of Alenka Bratušek's rule and back so that we can agree on certain matters so qualitatively, whether or not the opposition proposes something. Thank God we've twisted our species this time and we're really taking a quality solution that will help Slovenian agriculture a lot. I would also like to point out that if the Slovenian Democratic Party did not introduce this law, the Slovenian farmer would be taxed at least twice with KD. This would be what – for example, I come from the Slovenian Mountains alone, from the environment where farms are very broken – many farmers could not survive, many farmers. This is important, it is right to emphasise, and it is right for the Slovenian public to know this, that the Slovenian public knows. If I look back at what has been happening lately, we have seen from day to day with every law only an increase in the punishment in this area, not to mention the cadastral income, if not abolished by the Constitutional Court, what consequences this would have for agriculture, what consequences. Thank God the Constitutional Court ruled here as it is. And if anyone can confirm to me that this is support for the Slovenian farmer, when our periphery was so attacked, our agriculture, then I think I live in another country. That is why I must say that I am very pleased to confirm this law and that we will not continue the policy of the government of Alenka Bratušek and this coalition, which has been attacking the Slovenian countryside and the Slovenian farmer through all the solutions it has proposed. This has to be done. Thank you, also to the coalition, for listening to the Slovenian Democratic Party this time and confirming the law that is urgently needed to help the Slovenian farmer, not to burden him further.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! We don't fight in the opposition that much, because if we fought in the opposition, the opposition would fall apart and now it would just be a coalition further. Now the government coalition has collapsed and we are all somehow in opposition together. So much, not for a joke, really, because that's actually true. As far as the amendment is concerned, and you're in a bad mood to make a proposal for a change of law and then to make it an amendment, it's not right, because, we know, it's basically the government's bill-maker, and then he's making a lot of amendments. I even remember government laws that had over three quarters of the articles of the amendment. These were pretty small laws, and that was what happened. So it is not necessary for colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party to object if another amendment has been tabled here. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this amendment because, as has already been said, changing the share of the actual use in view of the diversity of our territory would make it right that the cadastral income is not charged at the time of the change of 20%, but only at the time of the change of 50%. Maybe because we're talking about some kind of cadastral income law -- I've been thinking a little bit about how you would call this home, what kind of marriage is that, in 2011, it was passed, the "stained" law. That means he's been dragged into a pile. And we don't know what's gonna happen to him. This history around this Cadastrian Income Act is actually now 4 years old and it has happened – in 2011 it was adopted, then it was not used, in 2012 we were in government and we extended the calculation of the cadastral income, as it was before the adoption of this law. Then last year, your outgoing government, on the basis of a proposal from the Slovenian People's Party, which proposed a reference to the working body in May and suggested that the cadastral income should be increased to a maximum of 10% against 2012. This also happened, and we kept this "sacred" law calm again. This year in the Slovenian People's Party, we expected this working group to do something, and now they are – if not, we would have been careful, too. The year 2014 is, May expires, it should be done by June, and given that the Government is leaving, a real disaster could occur between our farmers regarding this cadastral income. Last but not least, we are talking in numbers around five times the increase, in general, the cadastral income, from the current few over 60 million euros, to up to 300 million euros and a few million euros. It could be one bigger bite, a stomach, a flood, what I know, what hasn't happened to us. Now that could have happened to us. I think it will be absolutely necessary for the new government not to extend again, because by this extension until 2016, what has also been adopted on the committee is, of course, the time for these things to be different. We have burdened our farmer, just like the economy, like small craft, constantly with something, taxed and so on. You can see that this does not take you anywhere, that you will have to take steps back and give agriculture, crafts, a new start to the economy, so in a way that we will be able to make those debts that you have done in the last year, but of course the Pahor government in its three years, start to return, in a way that we will be able to spend less than we will have in the budget, one part. The second part, of course, is that economic growth will be higher than the interest we pay, because then we will pay off interest and capital, and then it will be easier in the social sector, because this will not have to be reduced. But surely we will no longer be able to owe our grandchildren and their children. What's been going on for the last five years is a disaster. In the Slovenian People's Party, of course, we have also repeatedly pointed out what happened in 2014. To farmers we have included complete subsidies in the tax base, then increased cadastral income and compulsory accounting for all those with income of more than EUR 7 000 500, and thank God they have not yet paid the third tax. The Constitutional Court is this stupidity of the Government, the property tax, thank God for the removal, and in this area too there will have to be a lot more sober, especially in some ways within the framework of the neighbouring countries as well. Many times we like to compare ourselves with the Austrians, and it would be right to do so, because not only will we have lower taxes, but of course we will also have a larger gross product, and then a higher standard. Last two or three days ago, we saw what the E.R.s looked like in our house and what they looked like across the border. Of course, this has nothing to do with this law and not with the amendment, but I just said it as a comparison. I have already said how much this cadastral income would increase, and in my deep conviction of this Slovenian farmer, agriculture would not survive at all; a variety of farms would close. It is true, however, that much more will have to be done on what was set up at the beginning of our independent path with agricultural policy, this is on family farms. We need to revive the family farms, because this will also bring about a substantial increase in self-sustainment, and this is also part of our tradition, which is what we have survived, even reaching a country of our own if you want. For 14 centuries, our people preserved this land and survived it. That is why we also have it today, and we cannot and have no right to spend it, let alone with some taxes. Remember, even the profession made it clear that such a calculation was completely inconsistent and very harmful. With these changes, which have happened, this is also written here, and we agree with this, but after August 31, 2013, KD is, of course, accounted for as set out in this new formula. In short, if I finish, we will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party, as well as the amendment that makes sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? I'll give you a chance to sign up. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The burdens of agriculture and the Slovenian farmer, this eternal controversy that some farmers are rich, seem to me depressed. In fact, instead of being satisfied with the fact that conscientious and good citizens, who, even if they earn something, are immediately reinvested in widespread production, and of this the country has the greatest benefit, are still viewed for political and ideological reasons as a farmer as a class enemy in certain political structures and conscious fossos are huddled. That is why this juggling with ever-new laws and the way farmers are taxed does not seem appropriate to me. I know a lot of farmers who have paid this tax since the charts, and now they have to go to bookkeeping, and I don't know what. I must say that this is just a search for profits for certain structures in society, so that accounting, accounting advisors will be able to engage farmers for lack of time in any way. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is withdrawing money from agricultural production, from reinvesting money. Once again, money will go to upgrade agriculture, not to what is most important – so that agricultural production will continue to expand and expand and increase self-sustainment from domestic production. We must find that agricultural policy has also been in Slovenia in some way manifestly incorrect. Because self-sustainment was even declining and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u151	Mr Jerovšek, I apologize, you were gone before when we agreed to stick strictly to the amendment proposed by the SDS in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u152	Well, since I also strongly agree with this amendment that the number 20 is replaced by the number 50 and that the method of calculating the actual usage is calculated in accordance with the revised equation or with this coefficient in the equation. I think it's something positive that our client proposes. Of course, I wanted to say a little more than a man who knows a farmer who knows a farmer's pulse, even our policies towards a farmer by the current government, but if you don't let that happen, I will end up here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Not that we do not allow it, but the general debate on the law of course has already been held. Would anyone else like to discuss it? I do not see any desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 25th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.45 p.m. See you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u154	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Therefore, I ask you to check the functioning of the voting devices. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 May. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 1. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 1. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' groups of New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party to Article 6. We will first decide on the amendment under point 1. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 21. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Under point 2, we are moving to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 6. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 6 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to both articles. I guess not. We're going through the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on bridge insurance for professional athletes under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We move on to Article 1 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 1. Procedurally, Mr. Kavtičnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President! On the basis of Article 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request you to suspend the meeting for 40 minutes for consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u156	Is this about making a decision on this amendment? The consultation will be linked to all the amendments, so I am only asking in this article whether it wants to go to Article 1 before I order a recess, who will explain the vote. I'm guessing not, so I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 3:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u157	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Let's get back to work. At the request of the Head of the Positive Slovenia Group to decide on a 40-minute recess, I ask if it is possible to present the position of the Group. Mr. Kavtičnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you very much, President. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will support all amendments because we want to improve the law and we want to respond to all the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service so that athletes can, at a time when they are most active and even when they deserve some resources, put these resources into this bridge fund, which can then help them integrate into normal, civilian life. That is why both the law and the amendments will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 1. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 14. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 2a, which is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 2.a. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 17. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 3 and decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 3. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 17. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 4 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 4. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 15. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 5 and decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 5. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 12. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 10 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 10. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 15. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 12 and decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 12. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 14. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 14 and decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 14. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 14. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 20 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 20. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 14. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 26 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 26. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 27 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 27. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 13. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 28 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 28. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 14. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 32 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 32. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 14. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 35 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 35. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 37 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 37. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 38 and decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 38. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 13. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 39 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 39. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 40 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to Article 40. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to 40.b. and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia to 40.b. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 13. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. Since several amendments were adopted to more than a dozen articles, the Council of State will hold the third reading of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the determination of cadastral income under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. May I have your attention, please? We move on to Article 2 and decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 2. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 18. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. That concludes our decision on the amendment. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. We're moving on to the third. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, this is the question of Members and Members. Under point 1, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Jasmine Opec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government who conducts ongoing business, mag. Mr Alenke Bratušek, on the question of the mission, Jasmine Opec, concerning budgetary resources to subsidise the transport of students and students. Please explain your vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mrs Jasmina Opec. And the rest of you, I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. The last uncoordinated beats took place last week when a battle was fought in front of the public over who was responsible for the unrealisticly planned state budget. Minister Omerzel announced at an extraordinary press conference that he had run out of money for transport subsidies for students and students. Then we witnessed a public Pinkponk, who is more, who is less guilty of this situation: Minister Omerzel, President of the Government or Minister of Finance. If the government then acted responsibly, what would be expected of it in such a situation, it would shut down government chambers, solve the problem, and not disturb the public. After a number of media pressures, pressure from certain organisations and a number of sent questions, the President of the Government said yesterday that the problem would be resolved, but did not answer my explicit question where the money would be taken in concrete terms. Since there was no concrete answer to where it would be, given that we are constantly listening to the fact that the money is not there, this money has been taken away, we will support the proposal for a general discussion in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, where we expect the President of the Government to give concrete answers. Indeed, in the last year we have listened to a number of general statements and promises in this Chamber: that we will no longer be in debt, and Minister Cuffer has gone after a new package of money; that we will no longer burden citizens, you have again brought new taxes, new burdens; that young people are the priority of this government, and that they are increasingly going abroad. You have also promised 60,000 new jobs, and we have more and more unemployed and bankruptcys. Slovenia needs actions, not promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you. Can we decide this decision? Another explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will, of course, support the proposal proposed by colleague Jasmina Opec. It is imperative that this government, while still carrying out its tasks, take more care of the students and students. He can't just leave them on the road. It is true that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at today's regular meeting, carried out a transfer of spending rights from the investment line to the liner economic public service of the user of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space totalling 8 million. The government therefore ensures today sufficient spending rights for the conclusion of student and student transport grants, but attention is paid only for the month of May and for the month of June 2014, which is why students and students are not satisfied, so how much more is needed is the debate proposed by colleague Jasmina Opec. What's it gonna be in the fall? When will we have a new government? So, still, in spite of this good will, in the appearance shown, at an amount of 8 million, the government still leaves students and students by the road. For families from Pomurje and from remote regions away from university centres, this means an additional burden of about 100 euros per month for one individual family for one student, for two students from the 200 euro family, for three students from the 300 euro per month family. This debate is needed and I therefore invite you, colleagues and colleagues, that perhaps in this state, when we are not a coalition and we are not an opposition, however, there is primarily common sense and our affection for young people, students and students. Let us support this procedural proposal, this debate, in order to allow students and students to be without worry at least by the end of this calendar year.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Srečko Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we can discuss every single question of Parliament and make epics for what we did once in the morning, whether we did it yesterday or on Monday, and we can do it as long as we want. I think the government has done a concrete, operational thing the government has to do right now. It has enabled students and students to transport, means of transport, and I am therefore firmly convinced that the words spoken here are primarily for the purpose of pre-election, but that this moment the Government has operationally ensured that children, those who have one and the other, and the third, will not pay not 100, not 200, not 300 euros, but will be able to receive subsidised transport as before. I think this government did it right. However, we, ladies and gentlemen, can, of course, debate in this national assembly indefinitely about what could and could not be. We will therefore vote against the general debate on this. But I am in favour of working specifically in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary group, we will also support the debate on this issue because of what has now been said in the end and what is said about the ignorance of some. In 2012, at the proposal of the then Minister for Infrastructure and Space, i.e. me, this National Assembly adopted a law allowing transport to be subsidised to students and students. We have done so without further burdening public finances by pooling the funds previously fragmented in three different treasury offices at the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Transport into one treasury and allowing for the normal and transparent support of this system. On the basis of this measure, the student and student tickets were valued substantially. On this basis, line transport, a number of bus companies, as well as Slovenian railways, have also increased the number of transports, some up to 25% and more. Most importantly, even in Ljubljana we have abolished the discrimination introduced by the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana Jankovic, who did not recognise subsidised tickets for urban transport to those students and students who did not have a permanent residence in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Through this measure we have ensured the same approach and equal treatment for all students and students who benefit from public transport both in Ljubljana and in some other municipalities, regardless of where they live. So the government of Alenka Bratusek did nothing, did nothing, and saved nothing. If we hadn't provided these funds, I would have broken the law. The law is true, the National Assembly has not changed it, and laws must be respected. If someone violated the law, he was violated by the one who said that he would no longer provide these subsidised transports. And in every normal country, Members of the National Assembly, regardless of the political options they come from, would call on the government, the minister, to respect the law first. And if the law is in force, he must respect it. Of course, how he will respect him, where he will provide the funds, is a matter of his operational ability or efficiency. In this particular case, it happened that the funds were taken from an item that was also undernourished and discussed that there were not enough funds to provide investment in railway infrastructure. According to one area that is already undernourished, funds are provided for another area, but there is no comprehensive solution to the problems that have arisen. As a result, it is impossible to listen to words about how the government of Alenka Bratusek solved a problem or provided funds that must be provided by law in one way or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you. Several of you have expressed an interest in explaining your vote on your own behalf, so I invite you to apply for explanations of vote. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Institute of the Question of Parliament is intended to draw the executive branch of the Authority's attention to the problem. This problem, we have heard, is adequately addressed by the provision of means of transport by June. If anyone is concerned about July and August – then the study process does not take place and the new government will be assigned what needs to be done. May I remind you, fellow classmates, that you and the ZUJF student have taken the right to a student diet during the holidays. This is said to be a recognition of the fact that students are in a different position between holidays than when the study process is under way. There is a legal basis for the provision of funds; only funds need to be provided. And this, as the Prime Minister has assured, has also been done by the end of June. What I would like to draw particular attention to when the demand for a discussion on the answer floods – that is to say, this can only be called for – is only a debate that has no consequence because it cannot be concluded or the adoption of any specific decisions. What is to solve problems is a debate on the working bodies. I do not think this debate about the answer to support or any other because it is, as it is said, a flood of some requests for an answer that we do not even know, but we are talking about a general debate. This is not a general debate, but a debate on the answer either to the reply or to the President of the Government or to the Minister on the question raised by the Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you, too. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, President. "The Vice-President of the Diaka Organizace of Slovenia, Matic Matjasic, also stressed that the current situation is unacceptable and that students are not interested in political pre-election schemes." This was taken from MMC RTV Slovenia, 20 May 2014. It is outrageous that families with students and students were informed overnight and before what would happen to their children. I think this is outrageous for Slovenia. I don't know if it was planned to increase other social transfers, scholarships or anything to stay. We need to understand that people depend on it. One map from Cerknica to Ljubljana costs 150 euros. I think it's outrageous, and I'm going to support Jasmine Opec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Not only this time, I will vote in favour of the debate on the response of the President of the Government to the parliamentary question of colleague Jasmine Opec. Some Members have what you must have many times. Even when the question was sent to which of the ministers, when we were in the coalition, and the opposition proposed a debate, some of us voted in favour because we were aware that it was an important content, not a norm. Of course, some Members or Members do so only when they are in opposition; where they are no longer affected. The debate on the response of the President of the Government to the parliamentary question is very important, including from this point of view, to know when Madam President of the Government did not speak the truth here in the National Assembly. When? At the time she proposed the budget, or now that she was answering our Members? The problem is not adequately solved and it is not solved at all. After the new elections, when and how the new government will be composed – we do not know – so, as the budget has been adopted – the budget has been adopted for the whole year – must also function. I guess it doesn't work. Probably not on a lot of other points yet. And with the answer of the Prime Minister, there might be something else. And it is obvious that those who have supported the President of the Government until recently are afraid. We're not interested in a fight between two coalition parties, and we're not interested in an argument between the minister and the president of the government. We want to know how money will be provided for the transport of children to school, period.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Maybe we all don't understand the government's deep intentions. Look, Benjamin Disraeli, he lived in the 18th century, he said, "No better education than a grip." Since they are young people, in a way that puts them under pressure, the government wants to educate them perfectly. And these are deep, incomprehensible purposes. And even more so, let us put people under pressure to be more educated. So I think it's right that the debate is being held. In fact, why? Why the debate? To create standards for a just society. And we should follow the principle of righteousness. And it is not right, I repeat for the 20th time that we have taken the weakest – pensioners, students, students, people who have 700, 800 euros in wages, low wages, pensions. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have bankers with 10, 15, 20,000 euros in gross wages as rewards to make a bank hole. Would we not take something of this and leave the people with low incomes and not upset them or further educate them in this way? Maybe that's the way it is. I know from experience that people in distress are still looking for hidden reserves. It's just a matter of where it's possible to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u176	I will support this proposal. I add this: Minister Omerzel is responsible for the lack of sufficient resources on the budget line transport subsidy. He is responsible for this under the Public Finance Act. The Minister broke the law, went public by not having the money, not having the money for May and June subsidies, not for emergency investments in rail and road infrastructure. And look what happened today. The government withdrew 8 million from investments in railway infrastructure and transferred them to grant tickets to students and students, that is to say from where there is no money and where this could also mean an important step for the economy. Indeed, railways still face the consequences of their lust and do not have all the lines, and they do not have enough money to remedy these consequences. That's where 8 million euros of money were taken! This government just doesn't know what it's doing. And worse, you say the problem is solved. The problem is not solved! Are you aware of yesterday's decision by the Chamber of Commerce, the Line Transport Section and the Railways? If there is no solution for this year, they will not start selling subsidised tickets to students, i.e. tickets at reduced prices. This problem – if the Prime Minister here claims that money will already be found in some way, and today she has found it on investment – does not mean that students and students will also be able to start buying cheaper tickets because carriers rightly expect a comprehensive solution. Those who buy these tickets are students and students, not the fact that this government is flooding the need for money for a month or two to live, and leaving this dead man in the closet to the future government. It is the responsibility of this government to provide sufficient money to implement the legal obligations under the budget for the whole year, not only for six months. In short, totally irresponsible and how much discussion is needed in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Let me say that I myself support the debate on the answer to Ms Opec's question. I would say that since the introduction of subsidised tickets for students and students, the sales volume of student tickets has doubled and the sales volume of student tickets has increased by 5 times. And I don't want to talk about how much money that went into infrastructure. On the other hand, I would like to say that there has also been a significant increase in the availability of education for both students and students throughout the country. And the fact that the government and Minister Omerzel are now saying that between 500 and 600% of monthly tickets will be auctioned overnight or in a month is unacceptable. I would also like to ask myself what young people from the government of Alenka Bratušek received. We got higher taxes, we got a record debt – a newborn gets when it comes to the world, 15 000 euros in debt – and we got record youth unemployment. Thank you very much! Not that we got a little, we got nothing. And when the President of the Government has always lied and deceived the public about how young people are the first priority – please don't paint us. And taking responsibility for others or the next government is extremely immoral and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. Since there are more of you, I suggest you apply for an explanation. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you. I also support my colleague Jasmine's proposal to hold a debate on this issue. I think it's more than just about the fact that the government's actually exposed how it works in an uncoordinated way. It is a concept with which we are responsible for whether children from one part of the country will have equal access to education, because we know that these tickets have significantly brought schooling closer to all young people. It is whether the Government is aware and promoting public transport. We are all talking a lot about public transport, and what colleague Cernač, as the then-resort minister, did with this action, which has often also been the subject of controversy, is precisely what caused many more children to get on buses, on railways. I know how I had two in high school and they organized with neighbors and they drove cars together, and there was a parking lot in high school because the fourth graders had a driving test, all too little to park anywhere. It is also a problem of urban air pollution, so I think it is actually a very irresponsible, reckless move, which in some ways points to the Government's face to this problem and to the breadth of this problem. Otherwise, they are instruments that we need to use. I must say that I am very pleased that, in March 2009, I was able to get a sufficient number of votes back then as an opposition Member to hold a meeting in the National Assembly on the appropriateness and inappropriateness of the investment of TES at that time. When we talk about this investment today, I have no easier job than to take the debate and the conclusions I have proposed into my hands and to say that I have been one of those who has given timely warning on this issue. At this point, too, there is a whole series of problems that we are solving, and I think it is right to speak in Parliament, because that is what we are paid to sit here and to Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u182	I'm not quite sure I know what we're talking about right now. In fact, the issue was what the Government would do, what the President of the Government would do to provide funds for the transport of students and students. The President of the Government has made it very clear that she will do so today, tomorrow, and she has done so. What she promised, she said. She said she'd do it by June. She also said the deadline within which they would provide the funds for the future. But since the Prime Minister told the government what the government would do, now the question is that she didn't take it from the right address, that she didn't do the right thing, because they took it from an item that you don't like. In order to provide these funds — from where? If by law everything that must have been done was done, I do not know why it was a question; for it was a law to be fulfilled. Therefore, it seems to me to talk about TESH, about what someone as a minister has done, about what he has ever done, about what I will not personally support, about the opening of a public debate here, because I believe that the Government must do everything it has to do, and that it is again that we are talking about that the Government has done nothing for young people, but it has done everything that it can and the budget can provide. [[...]] But if we want to talk about the situation of young people, then let us open the debate on the situation of young people what we will do for them. Let us open this debate where we can really propose and then propose some appropriate conclusions. Of course, I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will be happy to support the proposal of Ambassador Ms Opec. But what you do to the Social Democrats is at odds with every social logic. The government was obliged by law to provide sufficient funds by the end of 2014, and every transfer today in this Chamber that the Government and the President of the Government have done everything to ensure that these funds are provided — not true. This is a deception against the public and is contrary to what this government and the President of the Government have said in this House. It ensured that the budget was realistically planned, that revenues were planned realistically, that expenditure was planned realistically, even though we warned the Slovenian Democratic Party and the opposition that the budget balance did not guarantee a quality fulfilment of legal obligations. And today we should talk about having a debate on young people – yes, it should be held yesterday, not today, not tomorrow. And that's the whole truth. And when we listen every day to the empty warehouses of the Red Cross, that we have hungry people, you should be concerned, and on the other hand those who need this subsidy, students and students usually come from families where parents are unemployed and cannot even provide basic necessities of life. It is sad that you do not support the debate in the National Assembly. Here is the place for this debate to take place, and here is the place to provide sufficient financial resources. Mrs. Potrata [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u185	Mrs Sonja Ramšak, I must remind you that the institute of explanations of vote is not intended for controversy, and I ask you to take this further into account, everyone else, so that this is a violation of the rules of procedure. Gradually, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak. And it is also procedurally intended to explain what is the purpose of your proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u186	I will, Your Honor. I think that you are here to hold the meeting and to warn Members and Members who are disturbing the work of Members and Members of the debate. I accept your criticism. Finally, I abused the Rules of Procedure, but all my previous discussions were in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? And Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. In the end, I'll tell you and explain my voice. Nevertheless, and I would not like to teach, my colleagues and colleagues, what will bring us a single debate that we will hold in this national assembly at the end of the early term, which will be over for a possible month and a half. You know, it's a policy, it's a likeness, it's an ad to everyone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u189	Mr Jurša, I must also warn you that you must not be politicised, but you must say why you will vote in favour or against.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u190	Yeah. I still have to say that we take advantage of the opportunity and the opportunity to talk about the Red Cross, Karitas. We have talked about how hungry our children are and, of course, I see no benefit in these discussions, because we will not accept any conclusions and conclusions. Any respect for my colleague, even from Pomurje, but I will not vote in favour of holding a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u191	Okay. Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm guessing not, so we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 36. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 2, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljudmila Novak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government who conducts ongoing business, mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek, on the question of the delegation of Ms Ludmila Novak concerning the appointment of a member of the European Commission from the Republic of Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u192	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The President of the Austrian Parliament, a member of the Austrian Socialist Party, Barbara Prammer, said at the press conference that if the Austrian SPÖ wins, she must propose a candidate for Commissioner from her party. And I haven't heard anyone say no to it, that it's undemocratic, that someone is competing for a commissioner's seat or anything. This is also in line with the Treaty of Lisbon, and we know that the future President of the European Commission will belong to that political group that will receive the most votes in the European elections. In this spirit, parties from Nova Slovenija and the Slovenian People's Party also proposed that the post of candidate for Commissioner should belong to a party or list that would win the European elections. At this point, we do not know which list this will be, and although Nova Slovenija and the Slovenian People's Party have a good chance of winning these elections, we do not know, because elections are the best polls. And it would be fair, it would be credible, it would be legitimate to follow this democratic process in Slovenia as well. With the answer of the Prime Minister, I certainly couldn't be satisfied. She has not even replied to her possible proposal to propose herself for this function. In addition, we know that the Government is carrying out ongoing business and is not the most credible to propose a candidate of its kind, especially from Positive Slovenia, which has taken care of the collapse of the government and the government crisis. I therefore propose that this debate be held on the response of the President of the Government, although this debate is also taking place in the Committee on European Affairs, and I think that such a decision, as we have suggested, would be the best, most credible and most legitimate decision for Slovenia. That is why I propose this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 3, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Romane Tomc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mag. Alenka Bratušek, on the question of the delegation, Romane Tomc, regarding the borrowing and implementation of the budget. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u194	Her colleague Romana Tomc asked the Prime Minister about the scope of her mandate and also directly about how to get out of it. The answers were more or less the guilt of the current government, which owed Slovenia and Slovenia an additional EUR 11 billion, to all living other circumstances, to itself and to its responsibility in this response. If we look at the situation in public finances, how we have been indebted for the last 6 years – of these 6 years, this is virtually 5 years of left-wing political option, once at the head of Social Democrats, secondly, Positive Slovenia – we can find that we have committed about 60% of gross domestic product or about 20 billion euros in debt over the last 6 years. If we owed these 20 billion euros to completely rebuild the infrastructure, in short, to invest in some development, in the future, one would still understand that. But we have spent 20 billion euros practically to eat them, to maintain a system that is financially unstable, and will soon have to look in the mirror and face the problem of how to reduce this surplus public debt. We didn't hear anything about this from the Prime Minister. We need, respectable, a discussion on this, not least the validation of the golden fiscal rule through the law, in order to start the future generations of deleveraging, but not additionally incurring. Last time I listened to one of the liberals' letters saying that if you're in charge of a state for running expenditure, it's the place of a young generation. In fact, if we hire and spend loans today, and we leave debts in the future, we steal this young generation, and what is done is the place of the future of young people, because they will have to worry that these debts will be repaid. And the discussion on how we will start to reduce the surplus deficit – here in previous points we have seen that we do not know at all how we will subsidise certain legal obligations, such as student transport, by the end of the year, we do not know how we will spend the necessary money on infrastructure after the acorn, but, of course, we do nothing to stabilise the deficit and also start reducing public debt in this country. I think it is from the responsibility of the social state for the future – because the social state is very connected with whether we will be able to manage public finances – from the duty to ensure the perspective of young people, we need to find a way out of further indebtedness and increase public debt in the opposite direction, in order to create surpluses and to reduce public debt. That is why we will support this discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Srečko Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u196	The question to the President of the Government was about debt, and as I listened, the President of the Government said something like this: 3 billion for banks, 7 billion for annuities and loans and a billion more, and a billion more for what remains. That was the answer of the Prime Minister. We Social Democrats therefore believe that the President of the Government has answered the question raised and that public debate or debate on this issue cannot answer a single question. Of course, we are always talking about lust, about cards, as we talked about at the previous point. In short, we are spreading and exploiting this stage, so that we can speak here, of course we have the right, but what the President of the Government has said, in order to speak for our political purposes, and that is not good. That is why I propose once again: we are talking about the point at this point in the agenda, we are going to respond to what is right, because otherwise we are going to talk about what someone has done in 2004 and 2005 and 2006 and 2007 and 2008 all the time. We have done this all the time that we are here today, and, of course, we can then answer that one year ago someone provided a completely different cut and a completely different intervention in public and other finances, which is not the point of the agenda. So once again, we're talking about the point. Social Democrats will not support this decision, and I propose that we really try to speak rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you. Can we make a decision? The explanation of the vote is still in its own name, mag. A visor. Mr. Puksich? So, I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Franz Puksič is also on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government, given the question posed by Romane Tomc. Even more so because tomorrow it comes with a proposal to amend the ZIPRO, where, of course, it proposes a re-delegation. Yesterday, the President of the Government said very roughly what we all know about how these 11 and several billion euros were spent, and the fact is that every ordinary bank loan you hire, you get a payment or repayment plan. In response, it would be right for the President of the Government to say how she sees it, because the President of the Government, because the one who has led the policy in the past year, is that we owe ourselves, raise taxes and shut down businesses, small economy and agriculture, how and how we will repay it. The stabilisation of public finances was obviously a Spanish village for it, or it seems to me that with a fig it changed the constitution because it is also linked to the adoption of a law on the stabilisation of public finances. None of this was said in the answer. I think it would be right before she goes away, to see maybe on the graphs she likes to show, how we're going to swim out of this and how many years, how many years she's designed, and with what tools. This opportunity before she leaves, I think she needs to be given. My colleague Tomc proposed this with a question from the Member State, and in the Slovenian People's Party, we would like to know how the President of the Government imagined this, since this was not clear from her answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin for explanation of voice in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will first say that I will support this proposal and I will vote in favour. Now let me tell you why. Because I think self-reflection is still needed by the Slovenians. Look, we're actually in a deep crisis. Everyone around the world, as well as the locals, is already warning us. Let's take a look in the mirror and admit where we are. By borrowing and raising taxes, it will not be possible to descend into the future and provide at least minimal prosperity to the economy. I'll tell you my experience. You know, people have different experiences. I was almost 20 years old. When in 2010, instead of implementing structural reforms in the company, what the state should have done, I went for credit, I went bankrupt. The same is true with the country, exactly the same, only longer response time is and worse consequences, worse consequences. 2 million people suffer or 90%. And why is it necessary? Because when the President of the Government says that we are terribly successful because we borrow 3.5 instead of 6% interest, someone should raise their voice and say, "Any debt to spend is a disaster, at any rate!" Therefore, a general public debate is needed due to self-reflection. This is what the last ambassador to the pension Bojan Grobovšek writes in the book Why is Slovenia not Switzerland? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 4, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Janez Ribič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Sam Omerzel, to the question of the delegation of Janez Ribič concerning the suspension of investments by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Now that we've listened to this debate, you almost have no hope of saying out loud that you would like to have a discussion in the National Assembly. Members of the delegation, I think we are giving because we want to draw attention to some of the problems because we are concerned because we are responsible. That is why my question was not at all political. During the construction of the highway we somehow neglected and forgot about the main and regional roads, forgot about their renovations, about their modernisation. And now, in recent times, several contracts, three-partite contracts between municipalities, between the State Road Company and the Ministry, contractors have been signed and no constructions have been made. They've moved it somewhere. And if some contracts are signed, then there are some penalties for that. And of course I want to know why that doesn't happen. We have a lot of money in some way, or we have committed ourselves as a state to rehabilitate some banks that some fraudsters have exhausted instead of investing in infrastructure, as this would also help the economy. But we made the wrong decision. It seems to me that this is a topic that neither left nor right should be interested, but we might be interested in how to get these funds together now, so that these investments, which are somehow under way or are signed, started and implemented. That is why I think that we should all be concerned together, because on the other hand, we will have to cover again from the budget some of the things for which the contracts are signed. That is why I would like everyone to decide at the end of our work and to hold such a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 31. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 5, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Infrastructure and the area of operations Sam Omerzel to Tomaž Lisca's question on the rehabilitation of bridge facilities on state roads. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you, President, for your word. Perhaps, however, I can persuade you that at least one of the present will give his voice a similar problem, as previously pointed out by colleague Ribič. I asked Minister Omerzel myself, personally, in January, what is the financial and time-consuming nature of the resolution of bridge facilities that are in an extremely critical state. At that time, it was said that within 3 months he would seek out 30 million to 40 million necessary resources and, along with the relevant services, would prepare all the action plans, all the documents, so that bridges or bridge crossings could then be repaired within 6 to 9 months. In the last week, all of us who are active in local areas, who want to give the economy a new addition, but not to close roads and do economic damage, and also those who want nothing to happen on these sections, which would be sad for the road safety aspect, were surprised when Minister Omerzel said that there was no money. Why do I appeal to you to have a general discussion? In the 2013 draft budget, Members of all the parties on the Infrastructure and Transport Committee suggested that the Minister should find EUR 50 million to start regulating matters in the road area of Slovenia. We agreed at the time, but Minister Omerzel ran into a deaf ear in his ministerial colleagues. The same story seems to be happening now in this area of bridge rehabilitation, so I appeal to you, dear colleagues, if there is no agreement or agreement on what to do in the field of transport infrastructure, please repeat what we have done in the adoption of the 2014 budget rebalancing, that the policy in the National Assembly should be put together and that we are voting a debate, which I hope will also have concrete conclusions that only any official at any ministry or direction will be able to seek the missing financial resources and also prepare appropriate documentation so that the resolution of the bridging facilities in Slovenia can begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 34. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 6, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, who is currently engaged in the current business, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of Mr Horvat's delegation concerning the opening of new jobs by creating a more attractive business environment for foreign investors. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I put the question to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer, on April 17th. He wasn't at the gym at the time, so I got an answer yesterday. Why do I have a lot of motivation to explain why the New Slovenia Group will support my proposal to hold a debate on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer? Because when I asked the question, and even when I received the answer yesterday, there were five, maybe six Members and Members of Parliament. Now the hall is full. And it is right that all of you here present Members and Members hear that I have asked Minister Cuffer what he will do, whether the Minister is on his way or the Minister with full authority, that Slovenia will no longer be an hermetically closed country for foreign investments. Slovenia is still hermetically closed for foreign investment compared to other European countries, and the Minister of Finance, the custodian of public finances, the custodian of the welfare of citizens and citizens, should in fact first propose to the Government and then to the National Assembly a measure. I also offered him 24 obstacles, about which the Faculty of Ljubljana University – I will not appoint this university and do advertising, no need – asked potential investors. Unfortunately, potential investors viewed this obstacle as crucial, with estimates of around 3.5 and 4; 5 being the most crucial. So it would be necessary for the Minister to propose some measures to open Slovenia to foreign investors. This debate in the National Assembly would certainly also be a good introduction to the urgent meeting of the Committee on the Economy, which was proposed by Members and Members of the New Slovenia together with colleagues of the Slovenian People's Party. We will talk about this, I hope that as soon as possible, and I hope that we will also take binding decisions for the Government. Colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to vote in favour of the motion for a decision I have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 7, in accordance with the proposal of the MEP, mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, who carries out the current business, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik in relation to corporate tax debt. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 34. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 8, in accordance with the proposal of the MEP, mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, who carries out the current business, Dr Uroš Čufer, to the question of mags. On the financial consequences of the recapitalisation of Bank Celje, Andrej Širclja. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 35. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 9, in accordance with the proposal of the MEP, mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, who carries out the current business, Dr Uroš Čufer, to the question of mags. Andrej Širclja related to the issue of effective management of bad claims through the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 33. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 10, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Prevc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Infrastructure and Space in the course of the ongoing business, Sam Omerzel, to the question of Mr Prevc's delegation concerning budgetary resources for the maintenance and restoration of the state road infrastructure. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 34. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 11, in accordance with the proposal of the MEP, mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel, to the question of mags. Branka Grims related to the distribution of profits of Elektro Gorenjska. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! The recent sting, the sting, has hurt Gorenjsko very much, and although we have received relatively large international aid, this remains barely observed, probably because it did not go in the context of creating a global anti-European atmosphere in Slovenia. Now it is about removing all the consequences that are still coming. In fact, about 9 million cubic metres of fallen trees remain in the forests, and the spread of various pests is now threatening, and indirect damage is still occurring in infrastructure. While there is a possibility of hiring relatively favourable loans, it is now also for those publicly owned enterprises, in majority public ownership, which have their own resources, to allow the resulting profit to be earmarked for the reconstruction of this infrastructure and, therefore, for those who do not have these options to take credit. In this case, specifically, Elektro Gorenjska has EUR 6 million in profits, and we have recently been warned that there is a high probability that a majority owner's request will be made at the July Assembly to devote more money to cover the gap in the budget, which was also an official forecast. Although the Minister stated yesterday, he warned that it was only his personal opinion to support the direction that profit should be taken in those companies where it exists and where this possibility is real, to address the consequences of the acorn. For it is delayed, but with every day, as it is said, there is also indirect harm. This is a reconstruction of the environment and infrastructure, which is the basis for the further development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia. For this reason, I propose that this be discussed in the National Assembly and that the National Assembly also support the clear position that was drawn up yesterday, this is to say that companies with these options should be allowed to make their profits available as quickly as possible, as soon as possible, as soon as possible, an immediate restoration of the infrastructure affected by natural disasters is said to be in their hearts.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u209	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 35. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 12, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Infrastructure and the area of operations Sam Omerzel to the question of Mr Žnidar's delegation regarding the reduction of budgetary resources for 2014 and 2015. Can we make a decision? Explanation to the vote, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u210	Your Honor! I asked Minister Sam Omerzel the question if, when planning and adopting the budget for 2014 and 2015, he was even aware of his responsibilities and the consequences of the non-professional, inappropriate planning of funds for his department. In his reply he made it very clear that he did not realize this, because he believed in the words of the President of the Government that he would later somehow get these few hundred million as much as he needed them, and if the Minister were so, I would say, somehow an eminent person to be able to rely on if it was a deal and a word. Personally, I personally believe that the Minister, with such a business where his approach is completely unprofessional, with extremely poor planning for the following year, after three months, actually finds that there is no means, not even for the basic operation – then this is a major problem. In particular, this is a problem because it is not a reduction, I would say, that variable part of the tasks, such as certain new start-up investments that could be prolonged for a later period, but even an intervention in the fixed, actual tasks of the department, such as subsidisation of student and student tickets. Then there is no maintenance of regional and main roads because the item was reduced by 90%. I would tell every planner: since the funds are falling by 90%, it must be a very clear red alarm that something is wrong here. And then, of course, for the operation of smooth rail transport, where it was said that, with such a drastic reduction, certain railway lines in Slovenia would have to be cut off. It's for the department. It's unacceptable for the minister. In fact, after three months, the finance ministry is at large, and there is a general debate to be held that the tasks necessary for the operation of all transport, as we know that transport is a very important scar to the country, can be carried out smoothly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 34. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 13, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Culture, Dr Uroš Grilca, to Alenka Jeraj, on the question of human resources in the field of culture. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u212	Nicely greeted! I asked Minister Grilco whether he believed that the Government would not be in charge at the time of its resignation, because Minister Grilc had issued a public invitation to Director of Vib Film. At the same time, he sent a law to the National Assembly, which combines Viba’s film and film center with a new public agency. So I'm wondering if he's serious about the new arrangement, that is, Vib's connection to the film center, or whether he wants to appoint the director of Vib's film before he leaves, and then he's going to have problems because he's going to have to appoint a new director of this joint body, someone else is going to do it. Of course, I will support this proposal to hold a debate on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 35. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 14, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Uroš Cufer to the question of Mr Horvat on the urgency of preparing the draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! Minister Chufer, Minister of Finance, I asked what he was thinking about the possible rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. Colleagues and colleagues, you remember that November night and morning when it was adopted by the coalition Members and Members of the 2014 budget. That was the first time that this budget went beyond the new European legislation to be verified by the European Commission, and the budget documents were well evaluated. And Mrs. Alenka Bratusek was happy. What is the situation today with regard to the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? I'm not going to repeat what we said about Minister Omerzel today. He came in front of the cameras and said, "Citizens and citizens, I've run out of 115 million." He now lacks to subsidise student and student transport for the next school and school year, from September to December, at least 12 million more. Where's he taking it? You know we have problems with our own participation when it comes to drawing on cohesion funds. The Committee on European Union Affairs, as far as it could be within its competence, seized on 25 March this year, if I may say so, and the Government then made budgetary changes so that at least a few cohesion projects could be carried on. But the matter is far from over in the field of cohesion. We are at the third year, four months behind us, and if we look at the first four months of the budget, we see the following. Expenditure was estimated at around 3 billion 400 million, representing 35% of the year's expenditure. Now pay attention — the deficit is enormously high after four months; it amounts to 722 million or three quarters this year. It is said that after one third of a year we have three quarters of the deficit allowed. Is this a red alarm for the Minister of Finance or not? That is why I think you will agree that my comments and the question to Minister Cuffer, who, in response, started saving, were reasonable, but unfortunately he was just talking about saving. There was no concrete response, so I expect you to confirm my proposal that we will be able to look at what we should do in this year's budget rebalancing debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u215	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 35. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 15, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, who carries out ongoing business, Dr Senk Plitčanič, to the question of Mr Zvonk Černač on the independence of justice and confidence in justice. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 34. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 16, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Jožet Tanka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Infrastructure and the area of operations, Sam Omerzel, to Jožet Tanka's question on the maintenance of state roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 34. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 17, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, who carries out the current business, Dr Uroš Cufer, and the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Sam Omerzel, to the question sent by Daniel Krivec concerning the implementation of the Act on measures to remedy the consequences of the greed between 30 January and 10 February 2014. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 35. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 18, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Sonja Ramšak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of Infrastructure and the area of operations Sam Omerzel to Sonja Ramšak's question on the reconstruction of the state road number 744/2346. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 35. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 19, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Uroš Cufer to the question sent by Mr Breznik concerning the reprogramming of loans. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 34. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 20, in accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Jasmine Opec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question by Jasmine Opec on action in the field of migrant workers. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 32. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Under point 21, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Uroš Cufer to Daniel Krivec's question on the non-payment of dividends to the electricity distribution companies. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 35. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 25th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you and goodbye.
