ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 23rd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Janja Attack, Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mr Janez Ribič from 12 a.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY – DESCRIPTION OF INTERPELATION ON THE WORK AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR EDUCATION, SCIENCE AND SPORT OF DR. JERNEY PICAL. The Interpellation was submitted by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Mr Jožet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u2	A warm welcome to all fellow Members, of course also to the representatives of the Government or the President and ministers and also to the secretaries. Perhaps it would be good if even last week, when we considered the amendment of the Real Estate Tax Act and the amendment of the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estates, a large number of government teams were present. But apparently the government only gathers on questions sent and on interpretation, I say, in the National Assembly. This is not the first interpretation we have on the agenda, which is one of the meetings of the National Assembly. However, it is the first meeting in this mandate in which the majority of the coalition members of the point have taken up the time announced for the discussion, two hours. At that time, almost 18 hours of debate was announced when the current members of the coalition, or most of the current members of the coalition, filed an intervention against Minister Gorenak. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, representative of the proposer, took up the debate for three hours. That's how much the coalition left for him to discuss. In this particular interpretation, 13 hours were announced against Minister Pikal, and the applicant also took three hours to present the interpretation, but for the debate on the interpretation, but the coalition cut him off for two hours. In short, so much so about these actions that we are witnessing to in the National Assembly. Perhaps it would be much better if the current coalition wanted to rationalize the work of the National Assembly so that the meetings of the National Assembly would not include points that work and cause problems themselves. Before mentioning the two laws that are related to real estate, it is called the Real Estate Tax Act and the mass valuation, especially at the express wish of the coalition, which were placed on the agenda, considered, voted on one, and voted on the other, and voted on the other, and [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u3	Mr. Tanko, I just need to remind you [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u4	have been a procedural problem [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u5	that you have an introductory address for interpolation so that we do not spread the debates on other topics. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u6	Mr President, all the interpretations submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this mandate had reasons or had the same starting point or had the same starting point. We talked about irregularities, violations of good behavior, suspicions of clientelism, acts contrary to laws and ethical principles, suspicions of corruption. Cases where decisions should be self-sustaining when the actors should, in fact, have not expired in this way. I will briefly highlight some of the points made so far by the interpretations. Interpellation was made against Minister Cuffer, who, together with the Government, provided more than a billion euros of tax money for the total exhaustion of the Factor Bank and Probank, thus allowing the payment of rich dividends, prizes and wages and citizens to be paid in such a way by the delusions of private bank owners, says those owners who have used all the ratings and are now equal to those who pay the consequences. Interpellation was filed against Minister Virant for several matters. The terminal is a flight map where even the Anti-Corruption Commission has not been able to identify anything. And even in the coalition, in this case, there was a lot of scheming. They're also one of the reasons for the map's interpolation. Interpellation was then filed against Minister Omerzel, who, with his activities, intervened in his subordinated company with contracts and thus came to a profit and did not, in fact, speak the truth. All three ministers survived the interpellations because the coalition initially covered them and protected them, not with facts, but with swindles, unargumentated debates and votes. Minister Cufer is now a re-actor with Bank Celje, and millions of euros will be needed and so on. In short, he doesn't feel guilty, and the money comes from public funds. This is also the case for interpellation against Minister Pical. At the beginning of this year, the Business Diary announced that the police had received an anonymous complaint against three people, including current Minister Pikal, that the police were investigating irregularities at the Ministry of Education and Sport, for a project in which the FDV had won, that the current Minister Pikalo was one of the changes of anonymously informed and suspects, and that the relationship of former Minister Luksic, Brother Andrej and cousin Marina Hacin was also very deeply involved in the project, was expected to have a serious response from the Social Democrats and also their President Luksic. We would expect serious explanations, documents, explanations of the involved, explanations of why so many relatives of Minister Lukšić were involved in the project, clarification of the role of current Minister Pikal, clarification of other members of the Social Democrats who participated in the project, such as Dr. Otto Luthar, Aljuš Pertinač. We would also expect some comments from Mr Lukšić's relatives and so on. In short, none of this happened. Instead of explaining the facts and suspicions of the application, there was a statement in the old communist manner that the Social Democrats were the only party with clean hands. So the problem is other parties. However, none of the Social Democrats have submitted any document to invalidate the claims made by the Business Diary. This means that the claims about the relationship involved in this project hold that the amounts for the project hold that the project, which was obviously overestimated, is also valid and that the project is not yet implemented in practice, which is also true. It is therefore a costly missed investment in the field of education, according to home-made investment, which means that the Social Democrats and the Social Democrats involved do not have a clear deadline for this project. In January, the Slovenian Democratic Party requested, with this content, a similar content, an urgent meeting of the Committee on Education and Sport, where these matters would be dealt with, but the coalition has served on procedural solutions, so to speak, they found, the majority in the National Assembly that the Committee on Education and Sport is not fit to deal with this item, this content which was on the agenda. In short, the coalition has already done everything in this process to avoid a point and this would not be addressed. It is also interesting that Minister Pikalo in this project, and civil education is probably an important project of the Ministry, has not spoken a word or said that he participated in the project to support the project and so on. In short, nothing at all. It is therefore a project involving the closer kinship of Minister Luksic, which in itself raises doubts about the correctness of the business, which raises doubts about the correct assessment of the costs, which raises doubts about the serious control of the costs and content of the project and also shows that some things have been paid twice. The present Minister Pikalo wrote and published his contribution entitled Cosmopolitan Democracy in 2009 in the fifth issue of Theory and Practice, so this contribution was published even before the invitation to tender was published. And later this article was included in the Ministry of Education and Sport project carried out by the Institute of SAZU, the Slovenian Academy and the FDV. It is not clear from the documentation who reviewed the project, it is not clear which institutions were involved, which establishments and which individuals and those data are not able to obtain, because in fact, the question is why such concealment is needed, such as what kind of a bat project, whose only objective was to get around Minister Luksic a profit and then only formally cover the project. For the prize, the coordinator of this project was the current Minister of Pikalo, who was also a kind of distributor of this project, then appointed Minister. He immediately stepped into Pikalu, as said, the current president of the Social Democrats Luksic, who, as the current minister, called for this project, was awarded the FDV and then prescribed it at the Centre for Critical Political Science, led by Minister Luksic's brother, Andrej Luksic. Another member of the Lukšič family – Marina Lukšič Hacin participated in the project. At the same time, it is very difficult to get rid of the impression that it was a project of a ministry which was not intended for the country's kinship. At the same time, the former minister, the current SD president, vehemently stated that the SD is the only party with clean hands. We're wondering, is that true? Not only doubts, but facts say no. Social Democrats in this project are not the one with clean hands. And something similar has happened before in granting a medical concession to Lukšič's wife for autism. This, too, has been unusual since the fact that the award of the concession is completely contrary to the political views of the Social Democrats. Are we wondering whether this FDV project, or the Ministry of Education and Sport, is being investigated by the Commission to prevent corruption? Probably not. That's not known. The Commission has not responded to this call for action to prevent corruption, and in all these doubts which have arisen publicly, at least it is not known. In this way it is possible to have clean hands, to be ethical, to share sciences if indisputable facts do not cause those who should. On the other hand, this same institution, the Anti-Corruption Commission, participates in a structured lynx in which they want to condemn Janša in any way on a political death basis on the basis of unknown facts that are invented, unknown and in an unknown place, with inventors perhaps also receiving some known promise of payment from known persons. We have other cases of clean hands. Recently, a member of the Social Democrats admitted to paying a housekeeper in black, in hand. And what happened at that time? What President Lukšič said, what other influential members of the Social Democrats can do, the SD Member may have a clean hand if it is cleaned up by others. Let's go back to Pical. The claims that this matter arose before the mandate of Minister Pikal and that it should not be the subject of interpretation for this Pikala, which some coalition Members refer to and, by the way, also mentioned by the President of the National Assembly, Mr Weber, when he proposed cutting off the time of the interpellation candidates and that he did not hold back. These allegations and the reference to the fact that something happened before the term of office, in fact, indicate that the facts recorded in the interpretation stand and that Minister Pikalo is suspected of participating in the crime, which is now under investigation. So far, no one has denied, of those whom I mentioned earlier, that they did not participate in the project, no one has denied the statement of amounts, no one has denied the statement of relation, no one has denied the other fact. Also, Minister Pikalo, the interpreter, did not deny it. The answers to the questions that are emerging are not, but I can repeat some. Has the article, which was then included in the Civil Education Project, been previously published or not? The data show that it was undoubtedly previously published. Is it true that the article was a key in a later public tender and was generously honoured with a few ten thousand euros? I'm sure the claim holds. Does he claim that the project involved the kinship of the former minister or the former Minister Luksic? He's got it, too. No one denied it. The project was also guided by influential members of the Social Democrats in key positions. Here. That's what's holding it together. Was Minister Pikalo the project manager or not? He was. The Minister didn't respond to any of the interpretations, let alone say no. In his reply, which is written on 17 pages, with some footnotes, the Minister deals mainly with how it should not be interpreted. There's no other argument than that he shouldn't even be interpeeled like he's some kind of superhuman. In doing so, and this is not funny, Madam President of the Government, because you have come to know this response to the Government, Minister Pikalo even refers to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I now ask the Government, which has become aware of what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia have with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Take a look at the answer you have burned, and you will see that there is also an argument, why it should not be interpreted, argued with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is not a footnote to that, it is in that part that is not a footnote. And the problem is that there are reasons why the Minister would defend himself in the act he actively participated in, channel money, channel money, channel money, participate in elections and so on. The Ministry’s response, or the Government’s, is a mere talk about procedural obstacles, why interpretation should not occur. In response to the interpolation, you can do this now that you have time to listen to my introductory explanation and then to the Minister, there is not a single word about whether the facts hold, or whether there would be any answer to the questions that we have asked. However, I would like you, the respected Government, to know that the Slovenian public expects answers to the questions raised. If the President of the National Assembly were to act properly, he should reject the reply to the interpolation because he does not fully meet any grounds for responding to the interpolation. Nothing. It says that there are only five members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the appointment of a minister. Makes sense. This is the process, because otherwise, Mr Potrč, who wrote this Rules of Procedure, could not even put this in some logical sequence of activities and decisions in the National Assembly. I also ask myself, as regards the response of some institutions and some of the important members of this Government, for example, what was Mr Virant's reaction, which as recently as the President of the National Assembly, called on in fact every official in the National Assembly to resign as soon as there was any suspicion of his pre-employment. We had several Members in this National Assembly, some officials who are being notified of the actions committed in 2004, 2007 prior to the appointment of a Member and invited them to resign. The work of Cinderella was even excluded from the party. Even in this case, Mr Pikal is in fact the same act, which is said to be related to the period before the function takes place, but it is an act which is the subject of an investigation and which involves all these suspicions of corruption. All those officials at the time were waiting at one door, outside the other door, following them, searching for answers, asking them when they would step down. In this case, Mr Pikal, this media activity is also nowhere to be detected. We wonder why, in this part of the mandate, when a new coalition took place, this changed once the position and attitude towards exactly the same issues. To exactly the same questions. And I think that if we wanted to keep our faces, we should have the same relationship with Mr. Vogrin, all that you're reading to him came before the performance of the function, Trudy Cinderella, Ivan Simčič, Alenka Koren, Borut Ambrožič, etc. In all these officials, all the facts were created before the performance of the function. It's exactly the same as Mr. Pical's. And I hope we get some answers to this part as well. I will ask or repeat the questions that I have already asked and that there is no answer to, I ask, Minister and Government: Was the article that was then included in the current Minister of Pikala's civic education project already published or not published? Is it true that the article was included in a later public invitation to tender and was generously honoured with a few ten thousand euros? I ask whether the civil education project was carried out by the relatives of the Minister Luksic of the day. I ask, they took part in the project in key positions, and the project was also directed by influential members of the SD. Pikalo, Pertinac, Otto Luthar and so on. I'm asking if current Minister Pikalo was the leader of that project or not. And another question at the end: Would this million, this Lukšič million and Pikalov million, be saved and spent for other purposes? Since it is a civil education project, which essentially means a succession of investments, there is absolutely nothing from this project so far. There is probably something else in the school budget, including the current school budget, which could make taxes and burdens on citizens much lower. It is difficult to avoid that this project by the Ministry of Education and Sport and the FDV is in fact a form of strange social entrepreneurship. Clearly, this is a way of social entrepreneurship in the national interest, and some other things cannot happen, and so there are such deviations everywhere where we hear the word national interest. This is kind of a form of bad criminal social entrepreneurship. In other areas, we will probably be able to come up with similar examples of social entrepreneurship in purely social areas, where the project only opens up to cover a family policy line, to be filled financially, with battery finances and matters to move forward. This seems to me to be a key issue at this point and also a key issue in this coalition. Such a form of social entrepreneurship, which means the exhaustion of the state budget, the budgets of enterprises, including the budgets of banks, if you want, some. Issues are actually channelled through some quasi channels, calls for private accounts. Dear members of the coalition, if you respond negatively to these questions, you will be able to work today to defend Minister Pikal's interpretation, but, given what you have done so far, it is likely that things will be very difficult. Before I finish, I would like to remind you of this website of National Education, which is what you have in the Ministry. This project uses a number of photographs, which have also been published on certain networks. Let's say this photo was posted earlier on Tax with integrity.com, it's also true it's also some kind of plagiarism, the next photo is from the same website, international and so on this website, linked to this project, not made, I will say, as part of the project, but copied from some foreign websites. [[…]] In short, the project we are talking about has obviously been solely designed to ennoble a million EUR 400 000 through a quasi form of social entrepreneurship and to send public money into private pockets, in an important part also in the related part of the current Minister Luksic. The current Minister, Mr Pikalo, co-ordinator of this project, is said to have been familiar with all the details of the money being spent, with all the details of the implementation of the project. And in our view, given that the coalition has rejected the debate on this item on the agenda of January at the meeting of the Committee, it seems to us that these are important questions that call for sound answers are the answers that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are Just like this, with only some procedural arguments, such as those written in response to interpolation or as you discussed in college, these perceptions from interpolation cannot be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you. You received the reply of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jernej Pikala, to the interpretation by letter dated 6. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Before I give my word to the Minister, I give the floor to the President of the Magi Government. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u8	Dear Members and Members! Apparently, the opposition, especially the SDS party, doesn't even believe this interpretation, because if I don't believe that you wouldn't be sitting in the National Assembly at the beginning of six and now eight. And also this photograph, I hope that it will show people clearly how much you feel about working in the National Assembly, even though it is things you inject yourself. But today I have come before you, before this national assembly, not only to defend my minister, but also to tell you clearly how we intend to consolidate the work of our government. I owe you this explanation, just as our government owes stability to Slovenia and to all its citizens and citizens. Only through clear commitments and also by critical assessments can we overcome the constant netness of the crisis situation, which makes it impossible for all of us to face the real work. If we do not see this, if we do not want to see that the political class is part of the problem, then we risk losing our solutions and becoming a major problem for the politicians. We used to face a bank hole, we managed solidarity on many occasions, and we will know and do many things in the future. When problems are severe, real, and dangerous for the common future, we can still be so prudent that we do not get caught up in short-term political gains. But when you look for answers to the future in the archives, when you interpolate ministers for anonymity or when you blame the Government for your own mistakes, you certainly do not contribute to stability or solidarity. Today, Slovenia needs these two, a stable country and a solidarity society more than anything else. We need a stable economy for a stable country and we need a solid policy for a solidarity society. Let me begin by saying that the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jernej Pikalo, is a good minister. He's in charge of an important ministry. The interpretation you're proposing isn't solid, because it doesn't have any serious grounds. Interpellation should be an instrument to verify the legality of a certain minister's work, and all that you, a respected colleague and a fellow opposition, read out to Dr. Pikalu, refers to a time long before this government. At the presentation of Dr. Pikala last March, I said that a key prerequisite for the development of Slovenian society is equal opportunities for public education. Education is the foundation of every democratic society, as we will establish relations within the educational system, so our society will be formed. If we want it in solidarity, we need to make every effort to make sure that this is the way education is going to be. If we want a critical voice to be heard in society, we also need to develop it in school. But be an example, instead of dedicating 16 hours of debate to the past, you prefer to talk about a more modern history lesson. Instead of accusing and defending yourself for 16 hours, take the initiative to teach rhetoric and media education. Instead of burning all the air of this national council in 16 hours, support better isolation of school windows and an energy-efficient facade. Why am I talking about concrete proposals? Because today's interpretation is an example of how the conscience no longer applies in Slovenia. There is absolutely nothing useful about it for citizens. This is exactly what they expect of all of us: measures, solutions, clear words and right actions. The measures that we had to take in the last year were neither easy nor popular, but we know that this was absolutely necessary for the country. In each area, we should ask ourselves what is good and why it is urgent. Since we've done this, the results are already showing today. Also in positive macroeconomic figures. A positive economic growth is forecast for this year. In the last quarter of last year, it reached even 2% growth. January exports increased by 9.4%. Industrial production increased by 0,6 % in January. Compared to last January, it's 4.4% higher. Looking at the March 2014 climate indicator, we see that the mood in the economy and between consumers is improving. Trust has increased in all activities, and most of all in construction. The return on our bonds is half lower than at the beginning of our mandate – 3.6%. The coalition has paved the way for Slovenia to return to a successful economy but without destroying the social state. Our goal, medium-term, is 3% economic growth and 60,000 new jobs. Our goal is a high-quality public sector, including effective public health services and quality public education. We give a special place to culture as an incentive to creativity. We are preparing a special housing scheme for young people, which, together with the guarantee to purchase apartments, will enable them to have easier access to housing. We are rapidly preparing documents that will allow the European funds to be spent on the new financial perspective already this year. We are also preparing a law on long-term care. All of these are the faces of a future, more solidarity society. As far as the economy is concerned, the most important project at this time is its deleveraging. Our next step will be to relieve the economy, especially in the labour costs segment. Allow me, in the end, to say a word about the real estate tax law. I don't hide my eyes from mistakes. The Court's rejection does not allow any evidence, but requires clear answers and solutions as soon as possible to replace the resulting budgetary outturn and how it does not reject much work and, after all, the money that has been invested in this project. All these questions will be answered by our government this week and presented to the National Assembly and Slovenian public. You will judge them by the stability of solutions, the solidarity of reasoning and the solidarity of effects. In addition, I will try to pull our strengths out first, each one in his own party, and then together in the coalition. And to achieve such consensual agreement along the common path to the future. Dear Members and Members! You will devote 16 hours of debate to your past and your own business. It would be much better if we all start working together with the future and show our citizens that we are all up to this country and a better future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister Jerne Pical to explain the written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u10	Mr President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament, President of the Government. 5. 2. The group of 26 SDS Members has tabled an interpretation against me with only one point. I replied to the MPs of the National Assembly within the prescribed time limit, far from what you were saying, Mr Tanko, but in a reasoned and clear manner. It is a pity that there are so few SDS Members here today that I can explain to you what this project is all about. Besides, I think you know this and you can do it, you can read the results clearly on the website www.civil-education.org about this project, including, of course, the results. I must say that I look forward to today's political debate, because we rarely have the opportunity in this House to talk about education, and so deeply. At the outset, let me say to the Slovenian public that, of course, I reject the allegations and join in with what Madam President of the Government has just said. 16 hours — for what?Oh, my God! 16 hours to lose the precious 16 hours of work. I'm going to put my defense in three bigger points. First of all, regarding formal inadmissibility. Second, about the project itself. And thirdly, regarding social entrepreneurship, as Mr Tanko called it. Formal first. As it is said, interpolation is unacceptable, only from formal perspectives. Interpellation as it is is always about the work of a minister. About the work of the Minister! Not about the work of a researcher. And in 2010, I was not a minister, and in 2010, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which I am running today, that is, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, did not exist. It was another ministry, and by no means today, I am not the Minister for Education and Sport, as once was, I believe, misconstrued. And Minister Pikalo was not the project leader, because of course he wasn't the minister at the time. The Minister is subjectively and objectively responsible for all that is happening at the Ministry, but he cannot, of course, influence the work of the Ministry when there is no minister, unless of course, we have switched to a relative theory and we can move on in time and space. Ethymological interpretation of the word interpolation – interperers means to step in but when to step in between if we step back. It's not possible to get in the middle at all. Secondly, as far as the inadequacy is concerned for formal reasons. Interpellation does not contain a question which is supposed to be the subject of interpolation at all. Instigators mix conditioners and a fortifier. There is no clear definition of what the question of interpolation should be. Third time. Instigators refer to the wrong article of the Penal Code. Yeah, to the wrong article, not to the right article. Fourth time. They refer to integrity as an expected action in the future, although the issue of integrity arises only with the performance of the function. Unjustifiedly, it refers to a relative relationship and points to a conflict of interest. But how can there be a conflict of interest, if, of course, the one who is, was a researcher then, not an official person. With all this nice talk, they abuse the Institute of Interpellation. Therefore, I deeply believe that the reasons for the interpretation are completely different. It was my turn, as they say these days. Because we have European elections ahead of us and because we need to have sixteen hours of stories in the National Assembly. It was also my turn because the political constant attacks on the social education subsystems are necessary to destabilize them. Because it is necessary to constantly attack freedom of research so that researchers can eliminate themselves and, of course, no longer explore them in the way that their conscience dictates, but by their own political means, someone else. Finally, I believe that it is a matter of revenge for concessions granted by a former SDS minister to 4 higher education institutions in a legally disputed, discriminatory and unconstitutional manner. This has been established by the Administrative Court and the judgment is legally binding. The Slovenian public must know that. Indeed, we have forgotten how many private colleges have emerged in the years 2004-2008. But we all know that this is not a question of public – private – but it is a question of quality – inquality. And today, after so many private higher education institutions were established in 2004-2008, we can see above all that they are ineligible. We can figure that out. We can see that they have few students and, of course, we can see that employers are getting more and more familiar with this. Employers know too well who gets bad diplomas and how to get them. As regards the four concessions that this Government has abolished in cooperation with the State defence and, of course, in accordance with the ruling of the Administrative Court, it is a matter of revenge, as I say, at least in my opinion. The point is that in the Social Democrats we have always been against high school tycoons, those who make money from higher education and direct public money into private pockets. You know, gentlemen, when we talk about judgments and when we talk about the judgments of the Administrative Court, we know who did it, we know what he did, we know how he did it, we know, of course, what means he did it, and we also know why he did it. So, all that other judgment is a problem. Mr Gorenak knows that at the Fourth Lateran Council, 1215 adopted seven rules of inquiry, investigations of sinners. This also stems from some other rules, but 1215 have also adopted Magno Carta and I claim, of course, that all that was wrong in these concessions, exactly what has already been adopted 1215 and all the conditions for these concessions, have been abolished because of the fact that the transfer of public money to a discriminatory, illegal and unconstitutional way into private pockets. That there was a violation of the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, because, of course, the Law on the Implementation of Budgets did not provide for any item on the granting of these concessions to the four private, higher education institutions, I would rather not talk about it at all. When I came to the Ministry, we got a 130-million-dollar hole, and this government managed to fix it. We added 16 million for higher education, which the Minister of the SDS, despite the decision of the National Assembly, refused to implement. This year we realized 16 million for research, which, of course, the then minister did not want to realize. And if you're talking, Mr Tanko, about social entrepreneurship and family political lines, then you'd better ask yourself, how did the Minister of the Beast in 2008 give without a call, I repeat, without a call for proposals involving Andreja Valič, now the Beast, then the Zupan. That's what we're going to talk about today. And it's only right that I say what I'm saying, because I'm standing here today and I'm going to stand by for the autonomy of research. Because I will not leave, not from this city, not personally, anyone in any way or in any other way would have an impact on research, what should be explored and what should not be explored, and of course what is right and what is wrong. For now this is the first interpretation against the explorer, not against the minister. So it's an interpretation against a researcher. The first in the parliamentary history of Slovenia, new and unikam I hope to say not only in Slovenian parliamentary history, but also wider. And the subject of interpolation, of course, is not me, the subject of interpolation is the university, it's freedom of research, it's all that's supposed to drive this society forward. If you want, it is a question of public education, autonomous, non-ideological and, of course, unburdened with various such and different political pressures, because today it is the turn of civic education, tomorrow, because someone will feel that way, it will be nanotechnologies that will be the next day's fertilization research with biomedical aid and a week later, I hope not, theology. But where do we go, ladies and ladies, because someone doesn't like scientific members, because someone thinks they're strange projects. Not only does he not know how to judge them, but a space with a judgment that is different from a research and university space is not appropriate. And if you ask me, like Robert J. Oppenheimer said, it's not possible to be a scientist if you don't believe that it's good to educate people. As far as these concrete ones are concerned, even though I have to say to some degree of complex readings, I will say very briefly and very decisively. They are disturbed by photographs, disturbed by an article, and disturbed by material. This is an insult to all of my 30 plus colleagues who participated in this project, because they did not deal with photographs, not with one article and not with materials of this kind. Much more was done on this project to make it possible to say that this is all that was done. As for the article you mentioned. First of all, an article called Cosmopolitan Democracy doesn't even exist. It will have to be copied correctly because there is an article called Cosmopolitan Democracy, cosmopolitan Democracy, and these are important differences when we talk about scientific works. Secondly, as far as the article is concerned, it must be said that scientific journals have not been paid for a long time, especially the theory and practice since Minister Zupan stopped co-financing Theory and Practice. So I didn't get this article paid for the first time and not the second time. To find out, you have to go to page 597. On page 597 is a list where the First Publications of Scientific Articles are clearly written. First editions of scientific articles. So where was this first published? We're not hiding anything, and you haven't found anything. So, as far as photography is concerned, it's a shame that there aren't any photographers here anymore, but all those who work in the offices in one way or another, you know what iStockphoto is. iStockphoto is the Internet agency that pays you – and of course we have all these accounts – that gives you these photos for your payment. Of course, then a lot more people use them because it's an agency like the Associated Press, like the STA or something. They also offer photos for your payment. But you know, I believe and I deeply hope that in these photos you are not disturbed by the person of other races. I also believe that you are not disturbed by people of different ages, because every discrimination by age, sex, of course, race is unacceptable. As far as the application of this project is concerned, all the grounds were designed to enable the Minister of SDS 2012 and 2013 at the beginning of the year of citizenship to use the European Year of Citizenship. He did not do so, so that all these bases, materials, scientific articles and so on, ask in your own kind why they were not used, for there is a question. As for the very core I am running, I very much agree with what Madam President of the Government has said. There is no developmental perspective without this pillar, and all developed countries are united in investing in knowledge and science as the best way to develop. The best way to develop not only companies, but also, of course, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The way I see him, as Minister of course, he's not yours or ours. We've never even talked about ours and yours in this department. That's what we're saying here and today, not in our department. It's about the future together, it's about the autonomy of the school system, if you want, it's about a predictable, autonomous and globally-based neutral environment. We want to work with the professional public, we work with all stakeholders, we do things without unilateral action and with a lot of dialogue and a lot of talking. I see my work at the Ministry as a work for the good of human capital, in the good development of human resources. For the pre-condition for the development of society is investing in the education system from kindergartens to scientific and research institutes. And here all citizens and citizens must have equal opportunities for all. Unlike individual countries, we are simply not rich enough to spend human capital. That is why it is the goal and must remain the goal, the full development of capacity, innovation and human potential. The transfer from the elderly to the younger must remain and experience must remain. No one should be released and there must be a flow of knowledge and of course people. Because knowledge is publically good, and so it must remain. Not for privatisation and other matters through the award of concessions and so on. It must be accessible to all age groups, allowing for qualifications, a system of professional qualifications and retraining and, above all, lifelong learning. For education is a human right and, of course, we want it to remain. Active citizenship, however, is only one of the things that we encourage and encourage within this ministry, regardless of the political pressures of this party or of that party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Before that, Mr Joža Tanko is on a case-by-case basis. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I thought you'd intervene and warn both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister. By the way, the timing of the interpolation you ordered with the Collegiate Decision is not 16 hours, but 9 hours and 20 minutes. You both said that big number several times. As chairman, I think you have a duty to alert them to this incoherence and deception. In short, as far as the session's concerned, they've gone after it, I'll say, very carelessly and superficially. The second point is that he was not the project manager. I have a project application here, and it says on this part of the human resource: the project manager Dr. Jernej Pikalo. [[advertising from the hall]] It says here: Head of the project Dr. Pikalo Jernej, FDV. However, you have been involved in this project, guided and brought to my attention [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u13	Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u14	Mr President, of course I have told you procedurally before. First of all, the claim made here regarding the management of the project is not true and, since it is evident, the Minister said that it is not in line with this invitation to tender. And secondly, as far as the announcement of time is concerned, it is different from what both the Minister and the President of the Government have said. But you are also obliged to point out this, and I also expect that if there is any such inconsistencies, you will also take this into account in the answers that have been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you. I myself understood that both the President of the Government and further, as regards the hours to be discussed, were bound both to the interpretation of the anti-Dr. Virant and to Dr. Pical. But this is one of the data that is of course important. It is true, as you say, that 9 hours and 20 minutes are available today for the interpretation that is on the agenda. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the representatives of the government, to the Minister and to all Members! Within just one year of the current government's operation, we are dealing with the fourth or fifth interpolation today, by adding the interpretation against Minister Virant, which we will be considering on Friday. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that this way of working the opposition is not a constructive contribution to resolving the situation in the country, but is only intended to obstruct and discredit the current government. In the face of all the pressing problems in this country, which would have required a solution years ago, ministers must still deal with pointless interpretations, which is certainly why they also suffer from their effectiveness and the quality of their work. Why is there no point in interpolation? Since most of those who have been invested in the mandate of the current government do not relate to the work of ministers and their departments, they are based on political overplay, unfounded claims and even rumours, anonymity and the yellow press. In addition, I would like to add that the interpretation calls on Minister Pikal to be responsible for the time before the ministerial function, for the time when he was still a university teacher or researcher at the university. As such, it certainly does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is the institution of interpolation that is politically responsible for the work of the minister, his department or his subordinates, who are likely to be affected. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in its 250th Article, provide that at least ten Members may submit an interpretation of the work of the Government or of the individual minister. Let me repeat, the work of the minister and therefore not the work that the current minister did at another time at another institution. At that time, Dr. Pikalo could not have been a researcher in conflict of interest, since he did not perform any official duties at that time. For this reason, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that it is a matter of exploiting the instrument of interpolation and we also strongly condemn such work. In addition, it is worth noting that the content of the interpretation represents a specific matter that is being brought before the competent authority, and that is why we in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners feel that it is extremely inappropriate to discuss it in the National Assembly. By doing so, we exert indirect pressure on law enforcement authorities and at the same time encourage the public to create a certain opinion in advance, without all the facts being known. The Democratic Party of the Retired Party of Interpellation against Minister Pical will not support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u18	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President! Education, science and sport are very important areas of our lives. The one who manages them, develops guidelines for them and influences policy-making in these areas, co-shapes the future of our people, our country. Slomšek visually warned: "Good times grow from good schools and worse from bad. Times are as human as they are. But there will be no better people until there are better children raised. Times will only get worse until people get better." So is Slomšek, and his thoughts are very relevant for today. We Christian Democrats have carefully read the proposal for interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. The controversial project of the Faculty of Social Sciences, which won in 2009 at the public invitation of the Ministry of Education, formal forms of education for the citizenship of a multicultural society, has unfortunately developed into a party and related project, which raises doubts about irregularities and corruption in terms of gaining the greater wealth benefits of those involved. According to the media, interpellationers even point out that, due to these suspicions, the police should receive a complaint against three persons in connection with the above-mentioned public tender. Such and similar affairs cast a bad light on education, on public function holders and, ultimately, kill citizens' already so weak confidence in the country and in the fair allocation system on calls. It would be unacceptable for such suspicions to remain unexplored and unexplored. When reading the proposal, we were particularly mindful of the fact that, at the time of the event or the exercise of activities related to the above-mentioned invitation to tender and the FDV project, the Minister of Education, Dr Igor Luksic, was a party colleague, now even the party chief of the current minister. Which means that he is the one responsible for this event objectively. We therefore understand the proposal for interpretation as a symbolic interpretation of the work and responsibility of Dr. Igor Lukšić, so to speak. The current Minister, Dr Jernej Pikalo, was fortunate to have been a party colleague of the then minister and that they are both connected through the FDV and the above-mentioned disputed project. In Novi Slovenija we have also carefully read the response of Minister Pikal to the interpretation or to his reported irregularities. We note that he did not, in fact, define himself as to the contents of the readings, but responded primarily with formal procedural justifications after his inappropriate interpretation. The Christian Democrats in the National Assembly want, above all, a quality, in-depth and substantive debate with an analysis of the problems in Slovenian education and concrete proposals for their resolution. Above all, today's interpolation and debate should be an issue for all those responsible for the calls and allocation of funds for various projects. Each euro must be used where it is most needed and will produce the best and most useful results. Above all, the funds must be distributed fairly, transparently, economically and impartially. At the same time, we need to ask ourselves whether such a relative and friendly way of allocating funds is a constant practice in us or whether this is just an example and an opportunity to discredit individuals in visible functions. In Parliament, we often hear quotations from important foreign men. Our great patriot, Master and National Alarmer Slomšek says, "Choose your men according to their past works, how they have dealt with you and done good. As you will fast, so will you lie down." That's it, Bromšek. Christian Democrats will support interpellation, even though we should say it in the first place to former Education Minister Dr Igor Lukšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Jožef Kavticnik will present the position of the Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! Let me first answer, as President of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, that the Committee is not an investigative committee and has therefore not placed this item on the agenda. And as long as I am the chairman of this committee alone, we will not deal with such and similar matters on the board for so long. Interpellation comes from the Greek word to interpret, which means to ask questions to the government, in this case to the minister, and as the minister said, it also means to step in with questions. For this reason, many questions about the work of Dr. Jerne Pikal as minister, about his work and behaviour, were also expected in the Group of Positive Slovenia. In the case of interpolation there are no questions, nor are the observations of Dr. Jerne Pical on the role of minister, but he is an obvious one and refers to the work of researcher Dr. Pikal 5 years ago. In the Group of Positive Slovenia, we believe that the National Assembly must be a place of respectful debate, exchanges of different opinions from all areas in public life, the work of the Government and its ministers, but at the same time we strongly oppose the politicisation of those which, in this or other way, are also being dealt with through the apparent abuse of the Constitutional Institute of Interpelation at the meeting of the National Assembly. And that's exactly what happened at this interpretation. Interpellation, as provided for in Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, may be initiated on the work and political responsibility of the Minister, and this is by no means a public debate on the work carried out by the Minister prior to the performance of the public function. The interpretation, as I have already said, refers to the work of Dr. Pikal in 2009, when he was not a minister and when he worked in another institution. If we accepted an understanding of the interpretation of the interpolation as interpreted in the SDS, this suspicion, as the motioners addressed to the Minister, could be passed on to all or to anyone in the country, to the government or even to Members and Members of the National Assembly. Therefore, we agree with the entry in the reply to the interpolation that the interpolation in question should not be formally admissible. The Minister could be asked more questions about this work when he was the leader of the project team and not the minister. At the same time, interpellation candidates allow themselves even a very subjective and, in particular, a political assessment of the research work done. They only comment on the material of the project, which mainly points to their attitude towards the constitutional principles of university autonomy and freedom of scientific creation. The sowing of doubts and doubts in our citizens and citizens creates uncertainty and mistrust, especially if they do so to politicians. In the Group of Positive Slovenia, we strongly reject and oppose such practices without concrete evidence. The motioner for this interpretation said today: "The media have been informed of an anonymous application and of an investigation by the police into this particular abuse of this call." I am convinced that we must let those who are investigating investigate the matter and come to certain conclusions without any political pressure. We are also convinced that the Ministry has sufficient control to be able to determine what was and what was happening in the tender and then whether or not the allocation of funds was wrong or not. The comparison of MPs and MPs who were shown irregularities here, in the National Assembly, these MPs and Members was something, with the suspicion of the irregularity of Dr Pikal's work when he was not Minister, not appropriate and misleading. The suspicions should also be investigated and the results of the investigation to be carried out by the relevant authorities, and we will also be able to discuss them in the National Assembly, but only after the investigation has been carried out. Due to the interpretations made in the Group of Positive Slovenia against the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, we will not support Dr. Jerne Pikal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you. Ms Mateja Pučnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Minister with Colleagues, Colleagues and Colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we signed under the interpretation of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport's Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, due to the suspicion of irregularities and corruption in the 2009 public invitation to tender. The project was notified by the Faculty of Social Sciences and won the competition. Irregularities are expected to take place in a tender titled Formal form of education for citizenship in a multicultural society. The winner of the Social Sciences Faculty tender received €700,000. Dr Jernej Pikalo is expected to gain greater wealth and, according to media reports, the Minister is expected to receive payment for something that did not even arise in this project, since the article Cosmopolitan Democracy should have written and published before the call even existed. All of this raises the issue of the prudence or recklessness of spending almost a million and a half euros of public money, of which more than one million is for salaries, awards and business contracts involved in the main theoretical work. There are therefore many signs, suspicions and questions about this call, including the former Minister of Education and the President of Social Democrats, Mr Igor Luksic, which is why his reaction to the intervention is expected, although he has probably already realized that it is not good to boast too quickly of the client's purity. Mr Lukšič called the interpretation so misleadingly rotten and false, and as unacceptable and unjustifiable, Minister Pikalo also referred to it as referring to a time when he was not yet Minister. But, Your Honor, we judge a man according to his past actions and his past actions build trust and integrity. However, it is important what kind of person sits in a ministerial chair, whether he is a man of integrity and whether he is a trustworthy person or not. Minister Pikalo knows very well that interpellation is a legitimate tool for the opposition. In this case, when an appeal by the current Minister for Greater Financial Benefits in the past is made, the issue of the integrity of the Minister, who has silenced the involvement in this alleged disputed call at the hearing of the Committee's members at the home committee. Interpellation is also justified by the fact that the debate on the Education Home Committee has been disabled. And, like many times before, the opposition MPs were voted by a coalition that stood up to the ministers uncritically in the defence and apparently did not want to discuss it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are very well aware that we are not prosecutors or judges in the National Assembly, and we agree that the law enforcement authorities should do their work. However, it is certainly the National Assembly, as well as the National Education Assembly's home committee, where we have to and where we can discuss everything related to education and education and the use of public money in this area. And by preventing the debate in advance, you do not do anything good for anyone who can answer, nor for the public who already has the feeling that all our policies are corrupt. Today, most of the time, the Minister spoke about public education and concessions in higher education. Even at the time of this interpretation, we have been informed by Social Democrats, including Dr Pikalo, that it is an interpretation against public education, although there is no talk at all about it in interpretation. Therefore, in the SD party, they consider, as could be read in the media, that it is "the expression of the maximum opposition party's intention to reopen the door in the educational sphere to private education, where entrepreneurial logic could make its profitable plans". Such a statement certainly requires a comment. Indeed, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always sought quality education, whether public or private. It is obvious, however, that this reaction has been caused by a new law in higher education, which has been circulating through the Ministry for several months and has suffered many oppositions. And according to this statement, the fact that private education actually closes its doors by means of this new law is destroying everyone in advance, how welcome competition in education and education is being made possible by equivalent regional development. Unfortunately, this statement also shows a negative attitude towards entrepreneurship. Therefore, it cannot be expected that, despite all the warnings and recommendations of economists, a favourable environment will finally be created in Slovenia. Certainly not with such a negative approach. So I can get back to interpolation. To the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikalu, we read that we are taking advantage of illegal mediation. The police are expected to receive three complaints against three persons, including the Minister of Education, Science and Sports of the Faculty of Social Sciences, due to suspicion of irregularities in the invitation to tender. The complaint also states that everyone working on this project also benefited from this project – and today, we are talking about this, with respect. The assessment of the costs reviewed shows that at the Faculty of Social Sciences and at the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art in the context of these projects for business contracts, fees and salaries, more than a million Euros were distributed, as the Minister has also worked hard to respond to the oral question at the meeting of the National Assembly recently cited the amounts of the two projects. Unfortunately, his use of these funds does not seem too high, and he also rejects it. So, the Minister does not seem to mind that a handful of people from the friendly, family and client circle of Mr Lukšić at the Faculty of Social Sciences and at the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts have distributed more than a million euros for the project. Some received 20, 30, many more than 50,000 euros. And among them is Dr. Pikalo. It is not just us in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that thinks it is a huge use of public money for wages and mostly theoretical work. We invite the Minister to go a little bit among his people, not only his colleagues at the Faculty of Social Sciences, but also among the directors, teachers and educators, to ask them what he feels about the usefulness of both projects and more than a million Euros spent on wages and rewards. And you probably won't like the answers, Mr. Secretary. Not at all from those principals whose schools are in extremely poor financial condition due to a low description that they have barely electricity and water or paper, but now the Minister is forcing them to seek funds to pay a third quarter of the pay gap for their employees, even though in connection with this state, the Ministry, has lost justice and not educational institutions. That dissatisfaction is indeed great, we were also able to read in a public letter from one of the Slovenian principals who was published in the Work of January this year, where the headmaster without hair in the language spoke from where the anonymous complaint and the damage to the state was made. Among other things, the article states this: "In fact, there is a public record of EUR 700 000, according to some figures even for a million and 400 thousand, for the renovation of the subject to be total and not just systemic corruption." The director further states that "the Ministry of Education, led by Dr. Lukšič, has issued an invitation to harm the state and individuals to obtain a huge sum of money" and that this money has been distributed by "messengers and gentlemen employed at the Faculty of Social Sciences and at the Centre for Critical Political Science". The Director concludes with a call that "the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Public Administration shall immediately issue a decision on the collection of this money to all who have received it and the external financial audit shall review the operation and salary of the employees as they may discover something critical". This is the opinion of one of the Slovenian directors, but we are convinced that this opinion is not isolated. The project at the Faculty of Social Sciences consisted of experts from various fields, and an important part was also composed of teachers and teachers of civic education at all stages of the educational process and other social subjects in Slovenian schools. However, since no specific names, institutions, institutions or individuals have been published on the website, there is also a question of how many of them participated in the so-called professional network. And since a lot of funding was spent in the project, the question arises who was the expert reviewer. The answers to these questions cannot be obtained. Neither did the minister in his written reply to the interpretation, so we may expect them today. One of the findings in the complaint was that in some cases payments should be doubled, even in the case of Minister Pikal, who was supposed to write and publish the article of the Cosmopolitan Democracy, there was an invitation to tender at all. And the fact that the article was first published in the 2009 Theory and Practice, number 5, certainly also raises suspicion of duplication of publication and payment. The minister denies it. However, the course of further events shows that former Minister Igor Lukšič allowed the current minister to continue and finance the activities, so that Dr. Pikalo, as an external associate of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, also received an author's fee from the institution. So we are wondering which work the Minister received the payment for, if not for the articles mentioned and published. The project has also created a civic education website, mentioned by the Minister today, and would expect the widest possible selection of materials for concrete use from kindergartens to universities, and would expect special kits especially for kindergartens, especially for primary schools, secondary schools and so on. On this page, we find four thematic papers with teacher materials, but unfortunately there are not many of them. However, we cannot overlook the fact that the first news on this website was published on 3 May 2010 and also provides information that this way should be the first civil education network, but that the website in 2011, which is, immediately after the end of the project, is practically dead and that is why we cannot get rid of the feeling that the civic education project was essentially meant for ourselves. We have already asked the minister in the question of the question of whether there have been any concrete substantive and didactic models for teaching civic education, as recorded in the project's starting points and objectives. Have concrete tools and didactic teaching models been developed? For example, did audio and video material, work papers, inter-subject proposals, or the expected proposals for redesigning curricula arise? Answers to the question, due to the time limit, we have not received answers and are therefore expecting them today. With regard to civic education, we have been able to come up with concrete solutions in the media and also today, as part of a finger-to-finger presentation on the former Prime Minister, who is not supposed to make an update of the subject. However, it should be pointed out here that the curriculum for civic education was updated by the Slovenian Institute for Education in 2008 and that Minister Luksic later pretended that this did not happen. And the project that he called for was, in fact, also offered for an old subject of civic education, although the former government had already completed the subject with a domestic component. Indeed, there have been minor changes to learning plans in 2011, but it is still far from possible to talk about the renovation of the subject or the renewal of learning plans, as the participants have written in the starting points and objectives of the project. Otherwise, the project ended in the summer of 2011, and Minister Lukšič could, if he believed that the results were useful, immediately trigger a curiculative overhaul of the case, but unfortunately there is no. And most of all in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group involved in these projects, we resent the fact that domestic education or education for patriotism is neglected and the role of Slovenia and the Slovenian language is often shown to be even less valuable than the countries of the former Yugoslavia. With such a attitude towards his country and his country, a young individual simply cannot judge the international environment in a relative way and can not successfully cultivate intercultural dialogue. The fact that the education for patriotism is neglected also proves that the only proceeds of this €700,000 project are only a redesign of the title of the subject, which is now called homeland and civil culture and ethics, and no longer education, which would be the only meaningful and necessary. We are therefore also wondering how the government or the ministry will implement the commitments made in the new coalition treaty, which discusses the integrated resolution of the issue of the education element in the educational process. In view of the renaming of the objects, we hope that not by simply getting the education out of the educational process. Your Honor! At the time of his appointment, the Minister swore to respect the constitutional order and to follow his conscience and to work with all his strength for the well-being of Slovenia. However, many of the past actions of the Minister, which I have already mentioned in the position, have unfortunately shed a poor light on the work of the Minister and have certainly diminished his reputation and integrity. They also cast doubt and mistrust on every call and on every project signed by the Minister today. And this case is no different from the case of former ministers or from the case of some Members of this mandate, who are or are still being burdened by past, present or past actions. And the minister has also lost confidence in the public. Therefore, in our view, he is no longer in a position of responsibility to which he has been appointed. That is why we will also support interpretation within the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! On 20 March 2013, Dr Jernej Pikalo swore before the National Assembly that he would respect the constitutional order, follow his conscience and work with all his strength for the welfare of Slovenia. On 5 February this year, 26 MEPs and SDS members submitted an interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. The proposal for a decision for its resolution shall be based on the clear acceptance of the benefit of unlawful intervention, which is a criminal offence under Article 263 of the Penal Code. It is expected to be done in 2009, not as a minister, but as the leader of the tendered project Formal form of education for citizenship in a multicultural society. The conclusion of the interpretation reasoning is that, after some repetitions of the claims on research which are, in fact, valuable judgments on it, end with the claim of lost personal integrity necessary for the performance of the minister and the lost confidence of the public and therefore propose a discharge. And how do we see the interpretation of the Member of Parliament and the Members of the Social Democrats? First time. It's an interpolation that shouldn't be. Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Education, Science and Sport refers to a call from a time that has no connection with the work and responsibility of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Interpellation does not reach the minimum quality standards expected for a political act, either by scope or by content, with possible consequences affecting the functioning of an individual minister and the whole government. Another time. This cannot be an interpretation against Dr Igor Luksic, President of the Social Democrats, who, at least in a qualitative sense, has ceased to be very similar to that against Pikal in his mandate. In doing so, it is important that the speaker then convinced fewer Members and Members of Parliament in the debate than he had obtained to sign, as the result of the vote was apparent. Auntie. Interpellation is just another step in the attempt at political upheaval. An attempt to destabilise the government has been announced and implemented with accelerated strength. We do not contest the opposition's supervisory role and the options it has with regard to parliamentary questions, the references to urgent and extraordinary meetings, but only point to a questionable argument. Fourth time. Interpellation is an attempt to account with Slovenian sociology at public universities and other public institutions and consequently an attempt to broaden the financial foundations in favour of programmes in private institutions. How else to understand the flat-rate assessment of the quality of research and the scope of its results. This is seen, for example, in the evidence of excessive theoreticality, in the invitation to tender for two sets, the first of which is the Professional Foundations of the Strategy and the theoretical Theme for Education for Intercultural Relations and Active Citizenship, and the second is the Title Concepts and Models of Civil Education for a Modern, Globalised, Multicultural World: an individual and its role on the axis of local-national-global. Whose estimates are these and other reports of alleged weaknesses are not recorded, nor are they substantiated. So it is an attack on academic freedom of research work with a clear political purpose and political means. Complaints against former Minister Žigo Turk and Director of the Borut Rončević Higher Education Directorate, submitted by the National Investigation Office, therefore proceedings against senior SDS representatives are under way on the basis of complaints by law enforcement authorities. The SDS, however, continues its political struggle with anonymous declarations or all political means. Let's see what he thinks about the interpretation of Dr. Franc City. The lack of democratic tradition, which is reflected both in political functions and in the political public, which is ultimately crucial to the exercise of such responsibility, is less responsible for the lack of clarity and difficulties in the exercise of the Minister's responsibility. In practice, interpellation is primarily an arms of the opposition, which can even achieve the government's resignation and the dissolution of Parliament by early parliamentary elections. In any event, the interpolation of the opposition in the most procedural manner and with the least risk testes the strength of the government's position in Parliament and thus the strength of the government's coalition. In public, interpellation is usually highly resonant and means a kind of political pressure on the government and the ruling party or party coalition. And let's see what we think of the readings from the interpolation in the contents. Something is certain, after a year of hysterical school policy, Minister Jernej Pikalo introduced the necessary stability into the school field after a year of dictatorship and allowed the educational process to run in a more predictable environment. According to the predecessor, who has been exercising governmental arrogance with his fellow workers through an inappropriate method of communication, which has daily disturbed the educational and educational process with unwarranted reformist rhetoric, Minister Pikalo with an academic analytic approach, with listening to the otherwise-thinking introduction of the needed peace into the troubled school field. One of the measures that make a significant contribution to this is the maintenance of standards and standards, which also gives a clear signal of the importance of education in this society. However, let us not forget the plans for school reform in 2012 with the ZUJF, about one fifth of the articles that interfered with the various laws, about the planned measures that would lead in particular to the abolition of small schools in rural areas and the integration of schools in the city, thereby significantly exacerbating the quality of implementation of activities and significantly exacerbating the quality of life in rural and urban areas. The reduction of standards and standards was planned and could also indicate what was planned. But when we talk about a different approach, let us just mention that the openness to the dialogue of Minister Pikal can also be demonstrated in the public debate on the draft law on higher education. The dialogue has been ongoing since October 2013. These are obvious differences in the conduct of the previous Minister on the proposal of the amendment to the Higher Education Act, when there were only two working days for comments, if we consider the weekend, and four days for comments. Minister Pikalo gradually establishes a situation where education and education are not a cost, but the best investment of the country. In acute situations, we need to develop more actively the potential of each individual in order to develop to the height of our abilities. Despite the harsh conditions which the SDS in particular claims are even worse than before the takeover of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek's mandate, the School Minister in Government manages to provide more resources for education, more resources for higher education and more resources for science. With the 2013 budget rebalancing, a substantial number of funds were allocated to its portfolios, namely for primary education activities of more than EUR 54 million, for music education of 6 million, for institutions for children with special needs of almost 2 million, increased funding for research activities and for young researchers. The funds are also slightly higher in the 2014 budget, on the higher education agenda, and in the field of science, the decision of the National Assembly is fully taken into account and the ministry will fully spend 16 million on the purpose of adopting the amendment of the current opposition's parliamentary groups in 2012. Creating an opportunity for citizens to receive adequate education is indeed a constitutional category, but it is not self-evident. We have been able to see that in the past. Because we believe that this mission is fully realized by Minister Jernej Pikalo in his work at the Ministry of the Interior, Members and Members of the Social Democrats will not support the interpretation. However, with regard to the interpolation findings related to the crime, as stated in Article 263 of the Penal Code, we will wait for the findings of law enforcement authorities, which can only reasonably judge whether everything mentioned in the interpolation has been in fact such that it has signs of corruption, clientelism and criminality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In the beginning, I would like to make a few words about the form and written words in the interpretation itself against the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. It is true that Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that 10 Members can interpellate about the work of the Government or, as in today's case, an individual minister, but it is very difficult to imagine that those who have written down the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and those who have accepted it have both written interpretations and for such reasons as are evident to Minister Pical. Interpellation against the Minister is, to say the least, an offensive, full of subjective valuations of the project, entitled Formal form of education for the citizenship of intercultural society, full of the imposed thinking of the interpellationers in terms of how right and what conclusions should be in the said project, to the far-recognizable ignorance of the subject, the circumstances and also the functioning of the scientific sphere, which is also indirectly through the Minister Pikal unjustifiably condemned. Applicants also take credibility and autonomy to scientific work with the content of this interpolation and place it at risk of political influence. We cannot overlook the fact that the applicants in the interpretation of the scientific project have also assessed such subjective assessments and findings as, inter alia, that the authors are supposed to ignore patriotism and that the role of Slovenia and the Slovenian language is often shown to be less valuable than the countries and culture of the former Yugoslavia. Such accusations could be offensive and demeaning without a basic basis for researchers and should not and should not be allowed by policy for political purposes. However, such flat-rate assessments and easy comment could also indirectly discuss between the lines the demeaning attitude of the applicants towards the humanistic and/or social spheres of scientific research against the natural sphere. In his reply to the interpolation, the Minister clarified precisely and reasonedly, or in fact rejected the meaning and justification of this interpolation from both a legal and a factual point of view. This interpolation is formally inadequate and is not substantively justified. In their view, the motioners make it clear to him that it is a burdensome act for him, but it was before the time of his performance as minister. The fact is, however, that the Minister for his work or the work of the Ministry can be both objectively and subjectively politically and also criminally responsible only for the duration of his ministry. However, it may be criminal and, of course, moral for its pre-departure actions. In this case, it is the responsibility of other authorities to prove and punish possible crimes or, in the case of morally contested acts, the political responsibility of the Minister himself and/or the President of the Government in this case. Let me also say that in the Civil Gazette we agree with the statement written by the Minister during the conclusion of his reply to the interpolation, I quote: "There is no question in the interpretation but a clear and reasoned question which could be the subject of an interpolation and which would allow for a political debate for all Members." Unfortunately, of course, we know that despite such a well-founded and senseless interpretation, we will have a long debate for 9 hours and 20 minutes. In the Civil War, we will not support Minister Jerne Pikal. Once again, however, we express our disagreement with such a form, content and such arguments as the motioners have put forward in the interpretation. And once again, let us not forget that a criminal complaint has been filed against the police regarding the project that is the basis for this interpretation. We are therefore waiting for the findings of the competent authorities. Until then, as with other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the constitutional principle of alleged innocence applies. And let's not forget who never forgets to point that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the proposed interpretation against the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. The reason for such a decision is, in our view, considerable. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are aware that regardless of our vote, the Minister will remain in his position, as the self-preservation drive of the ruling coalition is so strong that it is willing to freeze on both eyes in the face of suspicious grave irregularities, such as the apparent millions of damage to public funds, nepotism and the allocation of funds based on ties and knowledge. For it seems that every interpellation this government coalition connects even more. As coalition parties become entangled in the spiral of mutual support for the actions of their ministers, they are more likely to collide their own species and thus collect a controversial way of action for all ministers and the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Today's interpolation to Minister Pical, according to our assessment, does not have any real potential for success. Once again, we will waste a lot of energy and time on something that the result is already known about. This does not mean, however, that there are clear irregularities against some of the highest authorities in this area that we cannot and must not remain silent. Let me focus on the reasons why we have concerns in the Slovenian People's Party about whether Dr. Pikalo is still suitable to serve as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. First of all, let me stop at the readings in the text of the interpretation material prepared by colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The content relates mainly to the criminal complaint lodged against the former school minister and current president of Social Democrats, Igor Lukšić, and the current first man of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Minister Jernej Pikal and Secretary of State, Aljš Petrinač, concerning irregularities in the 2009 public invitation to tender for the Ministry of Education, which won the Public Education project. In our view, the interpretation is a very delicate matter, as under the familiar circumstances, Minister Pikalo, in conjunction with the leader of his client, Dr Lukšić, as the former competent minister, will find it very difficult to demonstrate the justification for the distribution and use of public funds in a given case and even more difficult to demonstrate the concrete results of this project. This can finally be seen in a response to an interpretation that is more similar to a seminar task entitled Formal regulation of the Minister's responsibility vis-à-vis the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the actual response to the reported irregularities in the interpretation text. The Minister, or on his behalf, the reply officer, analyses the text of the interpretation from a philosophical, sociological, formal and criminal legal point of view on 17 pages, while the content of the readings is not added by word of mouth. According to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, the Minister's high and cynical response to the perceptions of interpretation points to the full contempt of the Minister for the Interpellation Institute, which is the legitimate right to verify the Minister's responsibility and even the constitutional category provided in Article 118 of the Constitution of Slovenia. As we have already heard today, it is clear that this project was carried out within the framework of the narrow circle of co-workers, the current and former Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Pikala and Dr Lukšič. This example is just one of a kind of non-negative state in the field of education in our country, which shows a clear parallel between the official education policy and the academic circles of the Faculty of Social Sciences professors, whose main aim is to make as many studies as possible on not changing anything. And the bills for these studies and expertise are paid by someone other than the taxpayers. Members of the Slovenian People's Party only hope that the competent authorities will carry out their work quickly and effectively in handling the above-mentioned criminal complaint. The impact of the academic cycle of the Faculty of Social Sciences on the design of education policy throughout the vertical range is also clear in determining the number of tendering places for higher education studies. Remember what apocalyptic predictions about the breakdown of the Slovenian educational system we heard during the previous coalition, which restricted enrolment in schools or social education programmes and increased entry places in the field of science and technology. The arrows mostly flew from professional circles gathered at the Ljubljana Faculty of Philosophy and the Faculty of Social Sciences, an important part of which remains Minister Pikalo. It is not surprising, therefore, that the current government, on the proposal of Minister Pikal for the coming study year, has increased the number of registered study places in the field of sociology and has reduced the number of study places on the technical technical programmes on programmes whose Slovenian economy would certainly be much easier to employ. This will further increase the number of long-term unemployed young people, allowing young people to move even more intensively, and allowing the country to return even more rapidly on the competitiveness scales. Do we really want this? Not in the Slovenian People's Party at all. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that today, in the economic crisis, a minister who increases study places in sociology, neglects and reduces study places in the field of technical sciences and science, cannot be a minister because he is obviously unaware of the reality. Nor can there be a minister who does not understand the importance of development cooperation between the Slovenian economy and higher education to create higher added value and especially new jobs. The Minister of Education cannot be someone who in one year has not even touched the structure of the Slovenian educational system, which needs comprehensive reform throughout the vertical, from primary to higher education. When we need clear guidance on how to make our school system more competitive, how to guide our children into education programmes, guidance, creating high added value when young people do not see the future in their home country, when also many graduates of educational education programmes are desperately looking for a job in the education system, the ignorance of the competent minister and his inability to face the problems that are here and now and demand swift action is unacceptable. The Minister of Education cannot be someone who is unaware of the seriousness of the situation in the labour market and of the large gap between the demand for certain profiles and graduates of non-performing study programmes. The Minister of Education cannot be someone who wants to destroy all private higher education institutions in a single wave and introduce a paying regular study, which is foreseen by the novels of the Higher Education Act. Last but not least, the Minister of Education, Science and Sport cannot be someone who is involved in controversial public procurements where there is a suspicion of damage to public funds, even though they were carried out before its function took place. Your Honor! I have mentioned only some of the main points which make us of the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo, is not fit to serve as Minister. As I said at the outset, we are aware of the dispersion of today's debate. It will come forward in a multi-hour co-accusation, followed by a military formation of coalition types in the form of a vote against the discharge of Minister Pikal from office. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we certainly believe that these 9 hours of discussion would be more useful to spend on a thorough discussion of the effective development model of the Slovenian education system, which should result in the highest possible level of employability of future generations. There is an urgent need for a head restraint, but unfortunately we do not see this potential in the current minister or in the current government presence in the Slovenian People's Party. We will therefore propose a decision to discharge Dr Jerne Pikala as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Prevc. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar. Would you like a word, Mr. Tanko? What can I do for you? Procedurally or as a proponent? As a proponent. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! The government is gone, no longer feeling the need to defend its minister. The members of her parliamentary group, who is the largest in the National Assembly, are also no longer because they feel no need to defend the coalition minister. So much for how well-founded both the Minister and the President of the Government were at the beginning of the meeting. Secondly, I would like to respond to some of the things that have arisen in the positions of the parliamentary groups and in the response of the Minister. Several of you, the coalition representatives of the parliamentary groups and also the minister himself, as well as the President of the Government, have pointed out that the interpretation is unfounded. If so, you have made a public statement of confidence to the President of the National Assembly who has placed this interpretation on the agenda of this meeting. If this is so that the interpretation does not meet the formal conditions, then you have violated, the coalition, the rules of the National Assembly. If that is not the case, and obviously not, because today we have a debate on the interpretation against Minister Pikalu and the Minister has also prepared an answer that is not the answer, but is dealing with what I said earlier, with the justification of the intervention against the Minister at all, then the President of the National Assembly should reject the Minister's reply to the intervention or the Government's response, because he does not meet any procedural and no substantive reasons why we can consider this to be an answer to the interpretation. With the item on the agenda alone, the President of the National Assembly has eliminated all concerns, and these are the only concerns that are in response to the interpretation written in his statement by Minister Pikalo and which the Government has also come to know. Unfortunately, if the point does not meet the conditions, it is not on the agenda, if the point meets the conditions, on the agenda, if the Government agrees with it or does not. And in this case, when the President of the National Assembly has placed the item on the agenda, all procedural conditions are met in order to deal with this interpretation. Now, the President of the Government has much to do with these insights from our interpretation, but they are linked to political clienteleism, nepotism, political and related participation in the implementation of the project, she has not engaged. In his rather vehement reply, Minister Pikalo also completely avoided it. He did not answer with a word the questions that I asked as a proponent in the introduction, which logically follow from our request for the Minister of Education's interpretation. Not a word. Which means that this ignorance afforded by the coalition in the National Assembly continues. We don't have Dr. Beast or Dr. Turk on the agenda today. We don't have this interpolation, but we do have an interpolation against Dr. Jerne Pical. With only one substantive issue – participation in the project, participation in the management of this project or coordination of money consumers in this project and absolutely nothing else. And in the introduction, I said that the key concerns were that the project was a political project, obviously because it had involved more or less prominent people of one political party, a recognizable SD, and that the former Minister's relatives were also involved in the project and that this project, at least after what was evident from the approval of the distributor, was led by Dr Jernej Pikalo. If this is how the project is signed out from public funds, it is probably difficult to ensure that things take place transparently, transparently, in order for the project to take place in a transparent, transparent way. This cannot be said in this project, for many things are not available. They're not. They can't be checked. The reference to the fact that the former Minister did not use this project in his programmes is nicely said absolutely meaningless. You've been a minister for almost a year. In the summer, we could put the matter into the September start of the school programme, and so on, if we had any important interest. Thus, in your response to the interpolation, you have focused primarily on matters which have absolutely no connection with the agenda. You're at what you got as a subject of interpolation, and you can read it with all the available data, give an answer that had some chapters. At first you wrote in the introduction – and this is actually nothing to do with interpolation – then you wrote the first most extensive chapter of the Inadmissibility of Inserted Interpretation for formal reasons, this is the largest chapter of your response to interpolation, referring to a whole bunch of things that have nothing to do with the work of the National Assembly right now. On one of the pages you wrote, you even referred to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Article 192 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. What does this have to do with the interpretation submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party against Minister Pical? What kind of legal basis is this? If we had at least referred to the European Parliament, we would have somehow understood, not the Croatian Parliament. And these things that you write in this defense have absolutely nothing to do with what we have invested. The lists continue, then you have a second chapter, you are polarising or writing about the decision of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, with all the typographical errors in the title you are responding to. Only the point requested by the Slovenian Democratic Party was seduced by the process. We did not require that an investigation be carried out at this committee meeting, but that it does dispel the problem that we have now recorded in the interpolation. The coalition prevented this, the majority on that committee voted in favour of a procedural proposal and declared themselves not competent in the Committee to consider this item on the agenda in order not to address the item on the agenda. And then the Minister, the Prime Minister of the Government, comes here and they report to the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party that we are dealing with non-productive matters at the meeting of the National Assembly. Why are you doing this? You yourself have prevented the debate on the committee, which could also end there with the appropriate explanations, prevent the debate, settle the matter under the carpet. And now that we have tabled this matter as an interpolation, you read these same persons to the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to talk about some non-productive matter. The debate on this point is not unproductive. We are talking about a million €400,000, budgetary resources that have been spent in a strange way. Political clienteleism, nepotism and so on. No controls, no data on important co-workers, no institutions involved, and for five years the project has cost millions and 400 000 euros. Let the minister explain that. And that's what we're asking him. P doesn't happen, not a word about it. However, the rules of procedure of the Croatian Parliament in response to our interpretation are important. Some others also invite us to do what we should do. You are teaching us that the only right approach would be to the question of the minister. However, the question referred here is from the same Rules of Procedure. How should we ask the Minister about the item on the agenda, if you have prevented it on the committee, you are challenging this point of interpretation, and now you could ask me this question about the history of your current minister as a matter of question. It's the same rules. Can we ask the Minister about something that happened before his office as a question of the question? If we cannot address it at a meeting of the National Assembly, if we cannot deal with it at the working body, if there should not be an interpretation, then it must probably not be a question of a Member State, since the same substantive rules for these matters apply. It's up to the proposer to decide what he's gonna do. One of the tools prescribed in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be used. Not that the minister tells us how we should do this, or we shouldn't do it at all. This is not his task, this test was conducted by the President of the National Assembly when he placed the item on the agenda. Amen. Procedures are proceeding from here, deadlines are running, responses to interpolation must be prepared, and so on and so forth. But the answer isn't right, we can figure it out now. Whoever takes the request for interpolation in response sees that the response to interpolation is inappropriate. None of the words touched on the question of the relationship of persons in this project, the political connection of persons in this project, the relation of persons in this project, the transparency of the business in this project, the justification of the call for this purpose and so on. There's no implementation of this anyway. And so in my presentation, I said that this is one particular form of social entrepreneurship, where one structure on some department comes up with a project and pulls off all formal procedural matters in order to bring this to an end in some clientele, one such or another. This is the problem with our budget, this is the problem of the resources we collect and we do not have them for other purposes, but we collect them exclusively for such spending on the pockets of various people who then share it. As we can see, at least part of this divider is going to be a lot of money for these things. Big amounts for nothing. And after you open the question, when there are no answers, no answers, then that's the problem. Then it's also a political problem. Then our former ministers are the problem. By the way, despite all the conduct that Minister Pikalo was talking about, none of these two ministers were intertwined, not Dr. Beast and not Dr. Turk. If they were working so badly, in the opinion of the Social Democrats and in the opinion of the current minister, they deserved to be interpelled. So they weren't interlocked. Yeah, not interesting. Interesting. And now the minister is speaking as the current minister, as if we should now interpret both of those who have been out of that position for years. But it doesn't say what we wrote about in our interpretation. In her reply, Mrs President of the Government also touched everything except clienteleism and corruption, which is evident in this interpretation. We have heard of the property tax, the complications in the National Assembly and so on. None of these complications, to which we are now witnessing, have we caused in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The fact that he fell on the Constitutional Court's property tax is not a problem of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we fought with all our strengths for different solutions to this law. We used instruments at our disposal, until obstruction, twice, even the day before the Constitutional Court's judgment. The complication arose because the coalition wanted to, because you didn't want to wait until it was on the agenda. And now you will be working on how to eliminate this – the real estate tax law, the novelty that has no basis, you will do the same now with this law on mass valuation. It's a complication now. We've spent hours discussing both laws, one on Wednesday, one on Thursday last week, and they're both irrelevant. It's irrelevant. And that wasn't a waste of time?Oh, my God! That's what we've been alerting you to at the college meeting of the National Assembly. That's how the coalition did it. But let's go back to this debate. I suggest, Minister, that you do not deal much with school policy in this interpretation, but to respond to what is evident in the interpretation. We will also talk about school policy at other points of the agenda, in the laws you will propose, in the resolutions if they will, in this interpretation, talk about what I have asked you in the questions in the introduction. And that's what the proponents want an answer to. Has an article that was then included in the project already been published or not? Is it true that the article was included in a later tender and an approved invitation to tender and also honoured? Mr Lukšić's family was involved in the project, and you signed the case? Was it a politically agreed project and the use of funds that had not yet been implemented in what this research was carried out? These are things we need answers to, very clear, very clear. The reference to the fact that you were not an official at the time is not sustainable, for the official probably also needs some criteria, meeting some criteria, which are also related to that work before the performance of the function. If you do not believe this, ask Mr Klemenčič and his view of who could be an official. We had a discussion several times in the National Assembly, and he said unequivocally that integrity before the function took place is also important for the performance of the function of the official of the Republic of Slovenia. Before the performance of the function! Not only since you took over, but until the end of your term. And I don't think there's any need for those of you who haven't discussed to jump into the floor and not let yourself as a representative of the proposer say anything about it or say what I think needs to be said. In his performance, Mr. Secretary said that we are taking revenge on him for the concessions granted by Dr. Giga Turk. Not in the text, Mr. Secretary, nor in the performance did I shake you at it with a single word, not in that. And how do you know what we think? What you've allowed yourself to propose is an insulting accusation. It's a charge for something I didn't say or do. And I'd like you to comment on that and answer that. I didn't say a word to you or say anything like that. We also did not have to know in any of this statement that we are continuing a political march with anonymists, as Mrs Potrate said. We have not published any anonymities related to the work of Minister Pikal. What the Business Diary published was new to us. And it is unworthy, Mrs Poteta, that you have accused the Slovenian Democratic Party of continuing its campaign with anonyms. We are not continuing our march, we want only concrete answers, which, as I have already told you, were prevented at the January meeting of the Committee on Culture. And what you have said in your position of the Group of Members is kind of inappropriate. Nor are we, nor are we going in this direction, that this is one stage in an attempt at a coup. Listen, in the coalition, you're turning yourself over. Alone. Everything you do has consequences in political stability, you can masturbate it and hold it together, but problems arise and it will be difficult to solve them. The only way you're waving what's going on is by borrowing. The only way. And in her introduction, Madam President of the Government praised her many achievements, but some of them stand. Profitability of bonds? Global bond prices are generally falling. Are our bonds cheaper than, say, competing countries? That's the point. Are they cheaper or not? This is not said by the President of the Government that we are still paying more and more expensive bonds, or that the profitability required, or the domestic interest required on this bond, is higher than in competing countries. That's the result of that. When asked what measures are those that have released and driven economic growth, one measure cannot be listed. That was a question. So what are you bragging about? With something that you're blocking, but obviously not enough that there's no action. Otherwise, I expect the Minister to respond and focus on the agenda, not on his predecessors and his recruits, but on the consequences that will certainly need to be addressed. I expect him to know that we Members can intercede against the Minister, that we want an answer from him, a reasonable answer, but not a procedural matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much. First of all, it's okay. I'll be happy to comment. I didn't give my wife money for projects. And that's what's holding it together. If someone else is one of your ministers, we can talk about it in the National Assembly. But I didn't give my wife projects when you talk about different siblings and others in social entrepreneurship. So much so that we're clear, I'm talking about Minister Beast, I'm talking about 2008 and so on. Nor did the Minister of Education propose any tax, so, frankly, I do not understand why there is a debate on taxes, such as those or others. The Minister of Education doesn't propose them. As for the article, I think I've already told you twice, not once did I get paid for it. All your insinuations are verifiable, and without any reservations, I can tell you. As far as the concessions you mention again are concerned, it must be said that they were. The abuse of taxpayers’ money, and this has been clearly established by the Administrative Court of Justice after a judicial judgment. They have been granted discriminatoryly, illegally and contrary to the Constitution. It's not about any concessions, it's about concessions to institutions, private institutions that have been chosen in this way. He did not choose them, as you said, the Turk, but they were chosen by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the time. As for the mention of my relatives and others, I think it's crystal clear that it wasn't me who started it, but anyone else, if we're talking about it. I am very sorry that Mrs Mateja Pučnik, who started reading a few things on behalf of the Group of Members, is no longer among us. But I have to say that when I quote the complaint, I didn't get it. And I must say, I also believe that only the authors know her. I just don't remember her because I haven't gotten her yet. If others know her, they should tell others if they know her. As far as the people involved in this project are concerned, it is necessary to say very clearly. 52 people. 52 people, not just on one, but on the other. Now I'm only talking about my project: there were 11 new jobs. Last week we talked about this in the National Assembly, I think colleague Tonin talked about how important every new job is. Yeah, I agree, so we hired new people because otherwise we'd be unemployed. 11 would be unemployed. And that's the only way and that's also the purpose, I can say that ESS funds. Of the 21 employees who were employed, I'm talking about those who got paid for it, there were 11 who didn't have a job before. So I think it's a bad idea for me to be able to read related and other relationships while we've hired unemployed people, of course, that I'm not saying anything else. I am also very sorry that Mr. Prevc is no longer here among us. As for the seminar assignment, I must say that my students fail to write such seminars. Obviously, there hasn't been this issue in a long time, and Mr. Prevc hasn't dealt with it in a long time. However, there is a difference between a regular professor and a university student. This is not what Mr Prevc said, but the answer is not for the seminar. And secondly, I think he owes one apology. Apologize to all the officials of the Ministry for not working for a minute on the response of this interpretation. None of the officials of this ministry. I think we owe them at least an apology, and I would never bring them into this because it's not their business, but it's a matter of political struggle. As regards the call for entry, which Mr Prevc also mentioned, I will explain again, as I have already explained in the National Assembly. Proposal for an entry by the university, not the Ministry of Education. The way the call for entry is also a matter of first university and only secondary ministry, and only then of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it is inappropriate to accuse people of studying on unsuspecting programs because a political party has said so. If the university thinks that the programmes are perspective, then I think it's appropriate that we leave them this autonomy and leave them this future, I will say, because no one knows which programs will be perspective in the future, except for those who can look into bullets and the future. As regards the number of young people who went out, the data show that they were the largest in 2012, i.e. at the time of another government, which did so without any interest in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. It's mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, very well greeted! After the constitution, interpellation is still an institution for the work and responsibility of the minister. In this interpretation, I see struggles about work and what the minister did or did not do. And obviously we will be discussing again the past of what someone has done or acted in the past. The motions for a minister shall be accompanied by a criminal offence. I must say that, as a Member, I am neither a police officer nor a prosecutor nor a judge and this work and these procedures should of course be carried out by other bodies. I expect mainly good work and good solutions from Minister Pikal in the field of education and education. Because there is virtually nothing to say about the content itself, I would point out the matter, which I expect from Minister Pikal. In particular, after the fall of the real estate tax, there will be a need to look at where we can save. Just a while ago, the Director of the Research Agency, Dr. Franci Demšar, made it public that as much as half of the money that the State spends on researchers' salaries is spent on over 100 % of employees. Somehow, in the academic world, it should be characteristic that teachers are paid 100% for teaching work and 20% for research work. And as I know, this is not supposed to be a practice in Europe. It has also been pointed out that if we gave this restriction that only 100 % of the budget could be paid by an individual, we could employ as many as 500 new young researchers from this title. This is the area for which I expect the Minister to arrange it or at least look at it and explore what to do in this area, so that it will not hurt too much if we also interfere with the salaries of public servants, and on the other hand, they warn us that some have been paid too much. And especially for that reason, because I think Minister Pikal is still doing a lot of work, I will not support this interpretation. I assess for myself that he is doing his work professionally, even calmly, which is very important for the area and for the district he covers. And as I said, I expect good solutions for education, of course, in line with the tightening public finances situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob the President then Joseph Horvath, Leila Hercegovac and Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, also in my name a warm welcome! I'm afraid I'm not going to talk too much about this interpretation, but generally about the school system that we have. However, I may have some comment on this account, but it seems to me that if we are talking to the school system, that we want to or do not want to be connected to the past, and that is why I will not stick to what the President of the Government said earlier, that we are talking about the past again; the school system cannot be regulated from now on. I am, of course, firmly convinced that we have a largely flawed school system in Slovenia, which in particular stimulates the survival and establishment of educational institutions, but not the education of young people for the professional and development-oriented functioning of the private and public sector. That's what I'm saying with great conviction. Of course, this is not just about or mainly about higher education and the well-being of some, especially social colleges, including newly established private colleges, which are usually set up by various observable policies. I see a particular problem in the secondary school system, and higher education is certainly only a consequence of the previous level. Again, I ask you whether we are educating young people for professional and development-oriented private and public sector officials. I also ask you whether you will ever listen to leading people in development-oriented companies, how successful they are in recruiting new co-workers. They are, of course, if they are looking for, for example, a new business secretary – let me be forgiven by all those who work in these areas because I take it as an example – when there are about 200, usually, for one job. I am asking all of us whether we really cannot look across the border into the most economically successful countries such as Switzerland, Germany, Austria, Scandinavia. Surely their success is fostered by the educational system, without it of course not going anywhere. And when we talk about responsibility, who is responsible, I would say that all governments and school ministers, from the attempt at a famous targeted education forward. Mr Minister, you said earlier that education is human rights and so should remain. I agree with this, of course, and I strongly agree with this, but this education must not be consistent, attractive and focused on ensuring the earnings of individual institutions. Everything else, including the developmental research projects that are under way today, are only, of course, the result of a failed school policy in Slovenia for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Minister, distinguished Secretary of State! Yes, the intonation of today's debate was given by no one but the Prime Minister of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek, who spoke of many things, of course even in defense of the distinguished minister Dr. Jerne Pical. At this point or for some time, I have been observing that the seats of the largest parliamentary party are empty. This is a very strong message to the Slovenian public, certainly also to the Minister and in some way I am putting myself on his side here. I kind of feel for him because he probably feels like someone two thousand years ago in the garden of Gethsemane. The biggest client is not here. Ms Alenka Bratušek could immediately count how many Members and Members of the parliamentary group who proposed today's interpretation were present or absent. So much for that. And today I am sorry that, in fact, Minister Pikalo has to hold his back in some way, instead of the debate going on about when Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek will resign. This should be a key topic in this country today. And her threats on Friday, I threaten everyone, 2 million Slovenes and Slovenes: "There will be measures that will be less just and more painful". That's what we have. We'd say young people in their jargon. Threat. It is necessary to threaten this nation "with more painful and less just solutions." If anyone were to say this, not the right-wing government president or the right-wing minister, maybe some last right-wing MP, would be flying dice here today, I'll tell you. So there's the grave silence in the media room and in some other space. I am also sorry that there is no Dr. Gregor Virant, a minister who could help us very quickly and might help us conclude this meeting, because when I read the proposal for interpretation, writes: "In early January, the Slovenian Business Diary announced that the police, due to suspicion of irregularities in the invitation to tender, won the FDV project in Ljubljana, received a complaint against three persons, including the Minister of Education, Science and Sport of Dr. Jernej Pikal." The complaint states, inter alia, that all those working on the project benefited from this. The assessment of the costs reviewed shows that EUR 1.4 million was earmarked for salaries, fees and business contracts for the FDV project mentioned above. Why does Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister, not ask the police whether she has actually received an indictment – I think she can ask – and come to the booth and say, is an indictment or not an indictment. And if there's no charge, then let's close this session and go home. But Dr. Gregor Virant is also not here to defend his ministerial colleague. I have to be polite and honest and say that in the personal correspondence that I had or had not had, there were only two of them with Minister Jerne Pikal, I must say that whenever I asked anything, I received satisfactory answers and we were not related, it was a public question and a public desire to obtain information. I'll just say what I asked and asked. How the ministry will also provide rural schools there in Prekmurje – because of course I meet with principals and principals there – so that they can implement the elimination of wage imbalances. You know, there's no surplus, no revenue over expenditure, in some small elementary school where the school environment is, say, three villages and children in some Christmas-news bazaar are selling their wonderful products to make 350 euros. And they're terribly happy, and so are we when we admire their skills and ideas. That's how you raise funds. I believe that not only in the countryside, but also in the urban centres. And how this school should now gather, I don't know, how much, 20, 30, 40 thousand euros, and give them, after the court's decision on wages or more learned, to eliminate pay imbalances, because if you say so, most people don't know what it's about. It's about pay no. And the minister correctly replied to me that they would try and so forth, because primary school cannot be beaten and we cannot take children to tell teachers and technical staff at schools. That's probably what we all agree with. And second, what I asked the Minister and asked for some support from the Ministry to resolve the problem of building a broadband network that we need in Slovenia bloodyly, since we are supposed to have in the EU by the end of 2015, this is the end of next year, a single digital space, a digital market, and we do not actually have August. So we do not have infrastructure for the Digital Single Market. And I believe and I hope that the minister and his co-workers in the interests of the country will also try to solve this problem, because no one put money in their pockets, but the facility is built and, of course, a lot of benefits, even to rural municipalities. Therefore, I regret that today we have not received, as it were, adequate answers from Minister Gregor Virant. However, as far as civic education is concerned, of course we could talk a lot about this and, of course, the education system. I believe that no one is pleased with him and that there are still great projects waiting for us here, and we do not have much time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Mag. Leila Hercegovarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u40	Dear Minister, representatives of the Government, honourable President, Members and Members of Parliament! I'll try to be brief. Interpellation against Minister Pical is incorrect. On the Education Committee, the education in which I am present on this mandate, I have a positive opinion on the work of Mr Pikal as a minister, a conscientious worker who answers all the questions raised. Now Minister Pikalo, like everyone else, swears to the minister's office, swears. The oath under which the Minister swore, at the time of appointment, to respect the constitutional order is invoked in the first paragraph of the conclusion of the interpretation by even the signatories, which concludes that many of the past actions of the Minister, both those who are explained in detail in the interpretation of the interpretation, as many others, speak of the fact that the Minister did not act in accordance with the oath he made in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The past acts, of course, cannot point to the coming oath, but more about the actual abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I will now open to the points stated by the Minister-designate, that there are no formal reasons why social entrepreneurship does not have the right basis, as other ministers did, for example from 2008, without the invitation and cooperation that the Minister was not and was not the project leader. I would understand that if Mr Luksic sat here to answer certain questions. But Minister Pikalo was one of the members who worked together and did research. So it still relies on the wrong article of the code and, of course, on other reasons. True, in the National Assembly there is an interpolation of the story that destabilizes the system and easily attacks one after the other. I don't think that's how it works. I'm not going to support the interpolation. I am indeed proposing to this National Assembly that we turn to substantive things, not formal matters of purely political nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, then Marko Pavlisic, Branko Grims and Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. A nice welcome to all, especially to the Minister and Secretary of State! I should like to start by saying that I will not support this interpretation, because I think it is not an interpretation against the Minister, but an interpretation against the researcher, against the University of Ljubljana, against the Faculty of Social Sciences and, above all, against that part of the critical society that is not prepared to be the appellator of any political options. In my scientific career, I have led many domestic applications and scientific projects, as well as foreign projects, such as those involving a large number of foreign researchers. And I must say that everyone has said that in their work, in their professional work, they lack professional and also political interest in the results of their work. Which means that it has never happened that their projects and the results of their project or research work would be discussed in parliaments of their countries, and some of them wanted to do so, especially because they hoped that parliamentarians could learn something from the contents of their projects. Perhaps today, too, we could learn about civic education and also about issues related to the upbringing of our children, if we had an interpretation based on facts. Unfortunately, we do have this interpretation based on an interesting document, a document that we do not actually know. However, it is mentioned in the media, which is supposed to be an anonymous criminal complaint referred to in the newspaper Finance on 8 January 2014, when the police said that last December, on December 2013, received an anonymous criminal complaint. This was an anonymous indictment, a real newspaper, against SD champion and former school minister Igor Luksic. It is said that someone last December was bitter in his thoughts, especially former Minister Luksic. But then, of course, she also filed this complaint against the Minister of State, Jerne Pical, and against his Secretary of State, Alush Pertinac. Aljuš Pertinač is said to have not been employed at the Ministry of Education, Education, Sport, but was employed at the University of Ljubljana when the project we are talking about took place today. So this writer who wrote an anonymous criminal complaint didn't even check that fact. Mr. Horvath asked or asked Dr. Virant what had happened to this criminal complaint. And maybe we don't need Dr. Virant's answer, because we already have the same Finance magazine in 8. 1. written that they had turned to the Ljubljana Police Administration and received a reply from its side that "they have received an appeal and that the criminalists will examine the complaint and if the signs of a criminal offence are given, they will carry out measures in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act," writes a newspaper that received an answer on the Ljubljana Police Administration. However, I do not think that Dr Virant, although Minister of the Interior, should be aware of what the police or the criminalists have found out if the rules of autonomy or autonomous police work are, of course, applicable. Well, let's take another look at the basis for this interpolation. So this anonymous criminal complaint, which, as I said, we don't know, but we know what the newspaper Finance wrote, is the only public publication. When our colleague is a magician. The passage in its speech warned that the SDS continued its campaign with anonymists, for it had in mind first this fact that this interpretation was clearly based on an anonymous criminal complaint, and I would point out that this anonymous criminal charge is very similar to the way it was brought into public space, one of the other anonymous criminal charges, namely the one we received on the commission of inquiry for the acts of extremist groups in Slovenia, and this anonymity was, interestingly, also created that, on the one hand, the political structure for the proclamation of Maribor's intellectuals as extremists was also made a criminal indictment. It is said to have been written to achieve both purposes — political disqualification and criminal prosecution. In this case, too, which we are dealing with today, we have obviously had the case of the same political anonymity, which also has the role of criminal prosecution. I would say that it was clearly created in the same lab of lies as the one we were dealing with in the board of inquiry for extremist groups and movements, where the proponents returned to the same way as in this case. Indeed, the opposition's motions used anonymity in the investigative commission to prove that the people mentioned in the anonymity should be heard as extremists. Look out! In this case, too, the interpellationers have taken the anonymous complaint as a basis for the execution of one time not the evidentiary decision, but for the execution of a formal act permitted by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So we have some groups of forms, some common political basis for carrying out certain political actions in the National Assembly. As a former scientist to my colleagues at the Faculty of Social Sciences, I would advise that from now on, perhaps even a while ago, they are very attentive to their work. Because, in addition to other forms of evaluation of their scientific and research work, which is in force in the professional world and which is being conducted in the Slovenian case also through the Public Agency for Research and Development, a special form of evaluation, which is called the Public Agency for Research and Development, will apparently also begin to take place. For what you have done to your colleagues in the SDS by using an anonymous criminal complaint and then drafting your proposal for Minister Pikal's interpretation is actually a political review of a professional project, an application project that was not designed only for the purposes of the Ministry of Education at the time, but also for the purposes of an international project. And if we really read the home page on civic education and on this project, we would also find that it is an integral part of the EURIDICE international project and that, within this project, an international, European project, of course, they also consider the results of the Slovenian research as very successful or as very good and refer to them and, of course, quote them. The draft Formal Education for Citizenship in Multicultural Society must also be said that it has been co-financed by the European Social Fund, not only as part of an international project. For some of you are aware that this research project did not address domestic education – which, according to the Slovenian opinion, should – and of course also patriotism and, of course, also in this interpolation product is written down. The problem is also that the European concept of active citizenship is significantly beyond our Slovenian views on domestic education. And I think we should probably also talk today about understanding citizenship in our country. In particular, of course, active citizenship. You see that the minister's response is both verbal and verbal, malpractice and flawed. I have looked at one topic, which concerns the issue of financial resources from this project, and I would ask you whether it does not seem to you that the interpretation is lax and superficial in your text, first in the proposal of the conclusion that the Minister or the FDV received EUR 700 000 for this project, then on page three, exactly as the Ministry's true conclusion was when the project was awarded and you say that the SAZU ZRC, namely, the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts Scientific Center, received EUR 800 000 for this project, for part, for one part of this project, and the Faculty of Social Sciences received EUR 604 000 980.08 for its work. Then, on the other hand, you say that at the time of the assessment of the revised costs of the FDV of EUR 1.4 million, EUR 1.15 million were salaries, fees and then contracts. I think we should count this. If she received EUR 604 000 980.08, I do not think she could have distributed EUR 1 million and EUR 10050,000 for her salaries. Or how are these numbers going? Secondly, regarding negligence and superficiality, in explanation of the conclusion. Although Pučnik’s colleague no longer used this address, as the minister has already pointed out, the article Cosmopolitan Democracy is mentioned. So you really meant it — twenty-six people signed it — you really thought the article was called Cosmopolitan Democracy. What do you all read about the Cosmopolitan Women's magazine or how you got to this cosmopolitan democracy? So much for negligence and superficiality. As far as these salaries you're talking about are concerned, and if the funds in this project, which is probably written in this anonymous criminal complaint, were used by someone to gain financial benefits. Yes, usually projects in colleges and research institutions always work to pay material costs, salaries, fees, business contracts and, of course, the depreciation of our college or our institute. I would say that it is not common in these normal research institutions to distribute or spend projects in some other way. Even more, the ADR methodology shows very precisely how much of the funds, how much of the funds of a given project should be used for either salaries or material costs, depreciation or other prescribed costs, for example, are directed. And it is likely that this project, which was commissioned by the Ministry of Education years ago, also prescribed how much money can be spent for what. And, of course, it is understandable that the project went to pay, because of the salaries of various researchers and researchers, both on the FDV and on the external researchers, as Minister Pikalo wrote in his reply. I would like to say another comment on today's media responses to this interpretation, where they spoke of this as a surprise, czech, that Minister Pikalo experienced a surprise and, of course, the whole Slovenian public with an interpretation based on such unusual controversial facts that are not actually there. I'd say it can't be a surprise for me. Today there have been several speeches about what one such background could be. For we must not forget that it has been said several times and also recorded what Minister Pikalo received when he arrived at his post at the Ministry. What types of projects were distributed at the time of the previous government's ongoing operations, what types of projects were distributed by Minister Turk and his director Dr Rončevič, who were already active in the government on 1 March 2013, have been awarded concessions for private programmes at various universities. These were concessions for €5 million, for €5 million, for concessions to three higher education institutions for the implementation of four programmes. Today, it has already been said that the Administrative Court, by its decision and this decision was already known in October, found by decision that these concessions were for discriminatory and non-constitutional concessions. Both men, Turk and Roncevic, were convicted. Is it not understandable that in proving their innocence, they will not use all the political means that the boss has taught them? And probably writing such anonymouss is one of those kinds of political means. My colleague Prevc, whom I highly appreciate as the former mayor of Železnikov, was very critical of social skills and of social studies programmes, particularly of the social sciences at the Faculty of Social Sciences, had previously been in a bad mood to produce non-employable graduates. But if I were to take a good look at who was awarded concessions by Minister Turk on 8 March 2013, I would find that the largest part of that concession was intended for the Faculty of Applied Social Studies in Nova Gorica. But that sociology is better than social science in other colleges? But does that sociology produce more employable personnel? In short, let me once again say that we are not dealing with today's interpretation of Minister Pikal, because this materially and soundly does not have any basis. Formally, however, it probably meets the conditions. And it is not right that you today blame the President of the National Assembly for putting the interpretation on the agenda because, formally, with an appropriate number of Members' signatures, it corresponds to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and can therefore be declared. As it is said, there is no basis for soundness of mind and content. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusičeva, I would just like to point out that the matter is on the agenda, not enough signatures are being sent, but all the elements required by the Rules of Procedure in order for the item to come on the agenda. And this interpolation obviously contained them. Mr. Tanko, did you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. In this time of year, a number of sights have come to light. As the interpretation is also justified on the substantive side, you replied, and I do not mean to debate much anymore, but it seems to me that there have been some indications that are severe. Mrs Jelusic said what did Minister Pikalo get when he came to the Ministry. Now I ask, were the conditions in the Ministry such that the new school year could not begin and be completed? Some of these were not such that the Ministry could not complete the current school year and start a new school year in primary schools, secondary schools, colleges or work in kindergarten was prevented. You've changed some of this so that this could even start because you're talking about the apocalyptic conditions he left behind, that Mr Pikal's predecessor should have left them. Such a debate of someone who is supposed to be a scientist before the function of politics is, in my opinion, very problematic. Very problematic! Because we expect from those who used to be scientists, more exact answers or more exact discussions. That's what I expect. Mr Pikalo did not respond to some fundamental questions; whether they held the flow of money that had been realised in the project and went to the exposed members of the Social Democrats and to the relatives of the former Minister, and here he participated in the project as project leader. Are they holding these allegations or not holding them? That's the answer. If these claims are true, this is an example of systemic corruption. The case of systemic corruption, which, in fact, is fought by everyone and everywhere, is full of these debates and debates in the National Assembly. What is systemic corruption? What is systemic corruption? To approve a high-level project and to determine in advance where and how it will proceed. The Anti-Corruption Commission deals with these matters. Does this case of this project meet the criteria for systemic corruption? Is he fulfilling or not? A clear answer is needed here. How is there no exposed representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party? However, we have the most members and also highly educated extremely large, but they are not on the FDV, and they are not relatives, obviously, of Mr Lukšić. Look, you are now avoiding this debate in a very clear response. Very full. You're referring to anonymous people as some kind of technique that has been established in this national council, but none of this has been published by my colleagues. This has just been published in the media, which they control, we can say, other political options. Don't tell us if anything was posted there. We summarized this, because there were no appropriate answers, we requested a meeting of the Committee on Culture – he declared himself unfit. The political majority has decided that. I've said that before. Why didn't you answer these questions there and explain how this project was actually running? It probably wouldn't be this meeting of the National Assembly. And this is not the first case that this happened on the working body. It's not the first case. Then it turns into a meeting of the National Assembly. However, for a meeting of the National Assembly, this fulfils the conditions and usually the same working body has to deal with this point. Same thing. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u45	Mrs. Potrata, you'll get [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, because you don't have a word because it's your turn a little later. Please, if you don't comment. Then you'll comment. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u46	If I've made a vow or made a mistake, I'm fixing it. I'll say it's on the Education Committee. It's no problem. I may have made a mistake too, ma'am, but it's not worth the mistake of 1.4 million euros. Of this, €1.15 million was spent on fees. This mistake I may have made before is not worth it. And we expect the Minister to answer that. Again, I would like to point out that it seems extremely unfair for debaters defending the Minister and the Minister to defend themselves by pointing out to their predecessors. None of the predecessors you call were intertwined because of his work as minister. If you're reading him some behavior now, your respectable colleagues and the minister, you might as well. You knew the department you've been controlling for a long time and beyond, there were no secrets, and that would have been easy to do. Now, Mr. Minister is defending himself with the obvious that Minister Beast has granted a project to his current wife. What is the name of this project? And how much money? It must have been a decision. Because if not, I would not go over certain things and this would not remain unnoticed with Members of the Social Democrats who have half the mouth of public education. Now I ask, Mr Minister, given that this project has not been implemented, it has not been implemented, as has already been said, in terms of how many kindergarten departments there are, these 1.4 million euros. How many classes is that in school? To know what money would be spent on. And now this coalition is gathering him so fiercely by raising taxes, calling for new taxes. We want clear answers because you're saying we're referring to anonymouss. But the real answer is whether an anonymous statement is held or not. Is it true that the most exposed members of the Social Democrats participated in the project? Do they claim from the anonymity that it was also a project involving the relatives of the former minister? If the anonymous statement doesn't hold you, then okay. But if they are, then I suggest we just say something about it. And she's anonymous, if she's accurate, but they're keeping an anonymous statement, Mrs. Jelusic. Don't defend yourself by calling Mr. Beast and Mr. Turk, who used to be ministers. Say and argue, which of the things we wrote in the interpolation is not true. Does it not hold EUR 1.4 million, or does it not hold EUR 1.15 million divided for salaries, or does it not hold any other issue, or does it not hold that family members participated in this project or relatives, or does it not hold that they participated in the top policy of the Social Democrats in this project? These are the answers to what we are talking about, not the debate after a long time and after and running away from the topic of interpolation. You won't avoid anything with that. This only confirms that the records in the interpolation at these points fully stand. So far, no debater or minister has denied it. Not the price of the project, not the distribution of project funds, not nepotism, not clienteleism. Not a single word has this claim been rejected, and that is the problem. And if things stand as they were written, and if there are no reasonable answers to that, then this is what I said before, in some way for systemic corruption. And if that's how these departments work, if that's how ministries work, if that's how you work in this mandate, when you suddenly miss out and all these things aren't important anymore, then there's something really wrong with this country. No amendment to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption is needed, no amendment to the law is necessary, nor is the Law on Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, nor is any law required, nor is there any amendment to the Law on Special Taxation of Property of Unexplained Origin. We don't need any of this because it only applies to those who are unwanted in the regime. If this is not the case, the project is being constructed and the provisions of these laws are being applied and this is taking place on stage, as has been the case lately. That's the problem. Here, however, we have specific information, specific indications, and a concrete procedure is going somewhere, but these two procedures are not connected, Mrs Jelusič, because political responsibility is one segment of this, and criminal responsibility is something else. And we are talking about political responsibility right now. Interpellation speaks of political responsibility for the actions that have taken place. And if someone knowingly participated in this, in function or before the function, it means that he is also responsible. And it doesn't give rise to any trust, no credit to the function that he does if he's involved in such a matter. We probably agree with that, don't we? If someone has participated in the distribution of money in an inexplicable way, the clienteleistic way, the corrupt way in which they earned their relatives there, then even after taking office, cannot arouse any particular confidence in this function and share the teachings of their predecessors about whether they did the right thing or not. I have not heard a single word about his predecessor, Minister Luksic, only about Mr Turk and the predecessor of Mr Luksic, Mr Beast. That's fucked up! It's like there hasn't been anything going on in three years. And the project that we're talking about, which this anonymous person is talking about, is ongoing from exactly the time that Dr. Lukšič, your party president, was present. We are not talking about the interim period, not the Beast period, not the previous periods, but precisely about this period and about the roles of the persons, your current party president and your current education minister, if I shorten. That must be answered, and I expect the Minister to say something about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u47	First the replica, then he wanted the word "minister."
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much. There are three things I'd like to point out, Sir Tanko. You use this $1.15 million all the time, and once you say "for fees," you say "for wages." It must be corrected and it must be said that it went up to $1.15 million, if these are data from the project, for the two institutions that carried out the project, namely FDV and ZRC SAZU, for salaries, fees and business contracts. Wages were paid by regular researchers, and these researchers worked on the project, published it, published a number of books, on dozens of articles. So they were working on this project and they had to get paid for their work. Another time. You claim that neither Beast nor Turk have been intertwined and, of course, you forget about it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u49	Mrs. Jelusic, I would only warn you, you have a replica, not a controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u50	Yes, but I would like to tell you in the replica that Minister Turk was interpelled, that an interpretation was tabled on 19 February 2013 and that the reply to this interpretation was also sent by Minister Turk to the National Assembly on 28. 2. 2013 And thirdly, you talk about it and ask whether the most exposed members of the Social Democrats participated in this project. I don't know what the criteria for the most exposed members were for you, but first it should be noted that Minister Lukšič was not the party's president when he called the project, was one of the party's members and a minister under the Social Democrats' quota, that Jernej Pikalo was not a member of the Social Democrats' party and that Aljuš Partinač was not employed by the Ministry when the project was being called and accepted. So, which of the most exposed members of the Social Democrats do you have in mind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Well, I must say that my relatives were not involved in this project, Mr Tanko. None of my relatives have cooperated, and I must say that I am not ashamed of my relatives either. Being related to someone, I don't think it's a crime. So, as far as this is concerned, I don't think we need to discuss anything in particular. As far as I'm concerned, you can tell me that I'm avoiding questions or cases to explain your systemic corruption. Systemic corruption has been established in the case of concessions granted by your minister. Indisputable and clear, by the judgment of the Administrative Court. So I don't even think about who's avoiding anything. And that's exactly what was found in concessions. As for the money that wasn't there. There was no money for the primary school law, so to start implementing the provisions of the ZOSn in that part relating to the implementation of the second foreign language. There was no money for the most vulnerable children to get what they were up to, I'm talking about the Children's Guidance Act with special needs. That's what you wanted to take away for another year. This is the most vulnerable part of this population, i.e. children with special needs. Since 2011, when the law was passed this money was gone, that's what we've saved. And that's the hole she was yawning at the time. That money for wages that wasn't enough, I'm not even talking about. As regards the project itself, it must be said that the project has been carried out in accordance with all the rules and has also achieved all those objectives and indicators as foreseen in the tender. The results of this project, I can only speak for the FDV project, but they have been used in the revision of the curriculum documents prepared by the USSR, the fulfilment of the obligations arising from programmes at the level of the European Commission, the Council of Europe, international organisations and so on concerning the civic education and integration of migrant students. The results were used in the preparation of national implementation reports on civic education, migration policy and international organisations, UNESCO and the Council of Europe and, of course, in the area of continuing professional teacher training. Within the Ministry, the results were further used in the report on the implementation of the programme for children and youth, the report on existing mechanisms and the possibility of funding activities for former SFRJ members of the peoples, international reports such as ECRI in the Council of Europe, promotion of human rights for the United Nations, CERT in the framework of the United Nations, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Council of Europe on the implementation of human rights. Of course, we can move on, and I can explain a lot more. So, to say that the project was not implemented is, as I said at the outset, not only an insult to all the researchers who worked on this project every day, but also to all those who then spent it or used it as a professional basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Instead of Mark Pavlišič, Mr Richard Braniselj will be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much. A key issue is the actual question raised by the applicant. Is he holding or not holding? Is he holding or not holding what it says here? How do we know if he's holding or not holding? What, though, does the proposer actually serve us to make sure that we are true or not? With that millimeter of paper? The crime here is obvious. In fact, it is easy to define here that there are suspicions, alleged irregularities, as the proponent describes because some things are supposed to happen and someone is supposed to gain some wealth. And then we have some information that a criminal charge has been filed and we actually have some substantial information from that same criminal charge. You know, information from a criminal complaint to ordinary mortals is not even available. Even the minister, if a criminal charge were really filed, and I wanted information from a criminal complaint, I wouldn't have gotten it. Do we have another anonymous person back here talking about some "we should" stuff? And specific matters that the proposer fails to prove with anything. And then how can we determine whether these things are holding or not? If they hold these cases, they will probably be supported by some relevant evidence, which will be judged by the relevant State Prosecutor's Office, and may also result in a conviction. And then, if there was any criminal proceedings, of course, the Minister would know what to do, but if we had higher standards in politics, Mr Muscolo, we would also know what would happen to this minister. But we do have a whole series of insinuations that don't actually lead anywhere. They don't come to a conclusion, hold it or hold it. However, in his humble argument, he allows himself, however, to write down at the end that the Minister of Education had violated the provisions of the Penal Code by his conduct. So we convicted him. We began to suspect that something was about to happen and then end with a definitive fact. I do not think that on this basis today we will be able to have an answer to the question whether it is true or not. This interpolation is prepared very modestly. We don't have concrete data, we don't have correct data. I would suggest that in the future we do not get tired of half-prepared things and actually we all want to get information. This dilemma will remain, holds or does not hold, but it is obviously also the interest of the proposer. However, the minister's interest is that he will someday be able to explain that he does not hold this, but today he will not be able to do so. There's a dilemma in the air whether it's true or not. And this is not right for either the Minister or for us today, who are sitting here and who are actually raping us with this basic question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, then Brultz, Vogrin and Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you. A lot has been said today. And a lot of things need an answer now. But so the answers given by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mrs Bratusek, as Minister, show that, above all, the confirmation of that old Murphy's law that whatever they say to you in politics is always about money. If we go in order. Mrs Alenka Bratušek, as Prime Minister of the Government, said, quote: "Today's interpretation is an example of how the news in Slovenia no longer applies." Before that, there was a talk about domestic education about something else, perhaps a smaller contribution. Mrs Alenka Bratušek received a completely unanimous constitutional non-disclosure three days ago in the Constitutional Court, because she had completely failed the law which she had bound her confidant to once in this House. But he still insists on his position to the detriment of the state of Slovenia. And this is indeed an example of how conscience no longer applies in Slovenia. For if anything, one of the foundations of civic education should be responsibility. The responsibility for what you do, for what you do, and that your words are in harmony with your actions. And then, if I continue with Mrs Bratušek, then she taught us, all Members and Members, to take over, she suggested to us "the teaching of rhetoric and media education", and I quote. If Mrs Bratušek is talking about rhetoric, then I must say that, I don't know if this is about Stalinistic self-criticism or she has overlooked some of the problems that she is dealing with very often in Parliament. And there are questions of rhetorical nature, as well as knowing the things we're talking about. And if we mess with rhetoric a little bit, we could introduce a new concept of "brotherhood" in rhetoric. It's a concept when you express complete ignorance with aggressive arrogance. For example, an example of such a rhetorical figure was the last time in this House when Mrs Alenka Bratušek said that the VAT hike had by no means burdened the economy. That is, of course, an expression of aggression. It was said in a pit, accusing all the predecessors and anything else. And of course, at the same time, the expression of complete ignorance, because anyone who has little idea of the economy knows that raising VAT first burdens the economy. Then where did that extra money come from in the budget? Is it like a man from heaven or how does Mrs. Bratusek picture it? He was taken from the economy. But it is even worse that raising VAT also burdens the economy in the long term, indirectly, because as a result of rising prices, where, of course, the VAT spills, reduces consumption, less money circulates, which means that the economy is less efficient and is therefore significantly less competitive over the long term in terms of globalisation, with which Slovenian entrepreneurship is facing today. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is fraternalism — with aggressive arrogance, the expression of complete ignorance. Another example of Mrs Bratušek's raising of VAT in the same Parliament is that it is the most social tax. You know, if you could at least read a textbook a little bit, or ask someone, or at least ask them to write a speech differently, because they read mainly, then you could know that by definition the most neutral tax is the most neutral, but also the most a social one, which is exactly the opposite of what she claimed because the most striking is those who live from hand to mouth. He takes the most away from them because they're already the hardest to live. It is also fraternalism — aggression, arrogance, uttered complete ignorance. So when she's talking about rhetoric, I would really suggest that she give it a lot of weight and that she should learn about things, first in rhetoric, that she doesn't have to read so much, and secondly, that we don't have to read so much about the content that over time we're not going to be the subject of world controversy through fraternism, how politics shouldn't work. And if I repeat her words again, what she does is actually a case of how conscience no longer applies in Slovenia alone, where we need responsibility. And now let's move on. Today, several times it has been said whether something is holding or not. You know, a lot of what's been going on in the field of education right now in the last year, it's very nice to prove with paper. Let me tell you one example, which is very up to date for me and for the end of Slovenia, which I am from. When Mr Minister ran and had a hearing before the committee that I was still in charge of, for education, he said, quote: "When it comes specifically to the University of Gorenje, I said, if it will be in the public interest, then yes." It's a magnetogram of the National Assembly. But when it was true when it was also necessary to confirm it, then a letter came from the same minister, now in his role as minister, and I quote, "The Ministry responsible for higher education will not continue the process of establishing a new university in Gorenje," although it is a public university and in the public interest, as they confirmed, it also recognises in that basic letter, including the mayors and all other actors. The only thing he found was that he relied on the opinion of two existing major universities, if they are against, of course everyone who is somewhere in one space already, will be afraid of competition, that's logical, that's perfectly clear. So what does that mean? This means the complete untruth that someone has turned to their heads. What you wanted earlier than a debater. You have one case here, and that's not how it works. If someone's not sure he'll be able to do something as a minister, then say it. But if he makes a promise, then he has to keep his promise. In Slovenia, this is exactly the problem of promising everything, and then no one sticks to anything. This becomes almost a paradigm of actions in Slovenian politics. Then people don't have confidence in this system. Now, when we talk about education and education, I remind you of Article 57 of the Constitution, which says "education is free", which, of course, is followed by the choice of education at any level. And secondly, nextly, I quote the third paragraph, "the state creates opportunities for citizens to receive appropriate education." If this is consistent with creating a possibility, then allow me to have a rather different opinion. And those who return again and again to the Flossula, we already have too many universities in Slovenia, I remind you of the following cases, and the neighbouring Graz in neighbouring Austria has about as many universities as all Slovenia has together, and there is one place in one neighbouring country. Or perhaps even a more graphic example – Taiwan has a whole range of universities at the top of the world's university quality scales by any measure you take as a criterion. They have, believe it or not, almost 300 universities in a country that is about ten times as numerous as Slovenia. Thus, they also lead to the development of electronics, all of which are probably not to be specifically explained. Only the number of universities in anything means or does not limit the development of universities, competition is important. And here I go back to what I have already stressed many times since the first day, since I have been in Parliament, in any area of life, only long-term competition promotes quality, accelerates development and sustains it. For if something is artificially limited, if it is artificially excluded, let's say, as was the case with a resolution in this Parliament, adopted by the Transitional Left, said yes, because we already have too many universities, Slovenia actually needs only three universities, you know, it's not exactly like that. We need universities so much that they will be so competitive with each other that it will strengthen Slovenian knowledge and development. That's what we need. And the number should determine the market, that market of student selection, the choice of parents when it comes to their children, the choice of individuals when it comes to the development of their quality. Here it is necessary and the state must set a framework within which this will be established without restricting one or the other or giving priority to one or the other. From this point of view, it is very interesting what I read that the key word in the allocation of funds had, I quote, was written by Mr Jože Biščak: "The Ministry of Education and the call for proposals for the distribution of funds in advance regardless of the quality of individual projects." And so they gave the existing universities, one 170 thousand euros, the other 674, the third 1.6 million euros, you guessed it was probably Ljubljana, and then the last, the other 361,000 euros, and that's it. Now, as far as I am aware of European principles, it is likely that some criteria must be adhered to in the invitation to tender. If this was true, as the article says, then it is a big question. But here is something interesting when we talk – this week it will be a very interesting topic – about the responsibility of the individual minister for his work. When it comes to the area itself or its actions, the question arises whether it is responsible only from the moment it took over until the time of the intervention. Whether own actions that do not comply with certain standards, with the law, with what it covers, are responsible at least morally, politically, ethically, even when it has not yet been in this area. This question will open again this week, Friday, when it comes to Minister Virant. Because this is so much more up-to-date here, because the minister himself specifically did a rhetorical analysis, the emphasis is on the word "bom" and not "me". Now, if you give this as a starting point, you know, it has this one trap, because then some greedy soul could reverse this oath and say, well, if this goes on, or then it goes backwards that you did not respect the constitutional order, that you did not work with all your strength for the welfare of Slovenia. Personally, I don't think it's a good starting point if that's how it goes. When it comes to responsibility in the area you take over, perhaps the day you take office is actually the day you're responsible for it, you can't be responsible for what happened before. But when it comes to personal actions, consistent with what you are defending, what you are laying as your foundation, you will find it difficult to put yourself in the position that they do not influence or can not be discussed in the light of the current function, especially if they are directly related to the subject. I am saying that this topic will become much more acute this week with another minister on Friday, but obviously this is one point where this government has a lot of problems. Well, that's the end of it. When it comes to issues of civic education. – The subject of civic education and ethics has already been renamed by the Minister of the Beast in 2007 into civic and domestic education and ethics. Then, in 2013, under the current minister, it was renamed civil and domestic culture and ethics. Now, given that education should be one of the foundations of education, that it is something without which, in fact, education in the modern democratic sense of the word does not even exist, at least not in the full sense of that word, then I must say that there is a great question, how much the content reflects then. And I'm pretty sure it is. And that here, when it comes to the issue of Slovenian education, unfortunately, again in the last period the issue of education has been largely raised. And that's not good. For the training for values is what shapes a man, at any level of education. Especially when it comes to a young man, a child. And if the educational system is not intertwined with values, if the educational component is not present, especially at a time when the child is very young, then of course this system will not establish the whole personality, which means that it will not allow the individual to fully develop all his or her potential. This is a matter that has many elements that should be discussed very seriously. For every man, I say, has some quality, every child has some quality, which makes him at least a little better than his peers. And here it is that, with an appropriate educational system and with appropriate education, we can help guide this emerging personality to develop this quality as much as possible and then fully implement it into its own and to the common benefit of the whole country of Slovenia. Only then will the mission of education be fully revived. For all these reasons, I say that this interpolation is already necessary and also justified in order to open up this whole issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Brultz, the minister wanted another word. We'll give him our word first, and then you will.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. There are some things I think it's right to react to. As far as public interest is concerned, I haven't changed my mind. I've also written your reasons. You have, of course, qualified them as the reasons for some universities, but this is also part of the public interest. To say that, of course, the opinions given by the universities, I don't think they were just two, as I recall, but all three of them, to say that this is not part of the public, somehow doesn't seem right to me. Otherwise, I must say that what you are the principles and question of the University of Gorenje and all these matters would be the right thing to interpret. This is a thing that I would love to discuss with you as much as this one, but that one would be even more happy to discuss. I think we would have something to discuss and, of course, there would be a very good debate. This would be a question of the environment, it would be a question of resources not only financial but also human, technical and so on. And that would be, I agree with you, the real thing. As far as this anonymous criminal complaint you mentioned is concerned, I must say that I have not yet been able to read it, but I think you will agree with me, that there is a difference between an anonymous criminal charge and the legal judgment of the Administrative Court. That, I think, is the difference. As for the rhetorical story of "bom," "me." I don't think it's hard to defend it, especially because someone who's never been in that position – I mean myself – doesn't know what that means. That's why it's also in my oath that I will, so I will respect constitutional order and so on. There is no doubt that every citizen must respect it before, but no one knows what this function brings with it and what challenges man is facing in this function. But as for domestic education and patriotism, I can even say that I agree. But this is because it is also for me — and I have repeatedly said it in the National Assembly — patriotism is a very positive feeling. It is a positive attitude towards its own patriot and is, of course, a positive attitude towards everything we call national. And I don't think there's any difference between us. And I agree with you that, of course, children should also be raised in the direction of domestic education and the love for what is called Patricia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Brultz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvat used to count how many of us there are and how many of us there are, that's what the President of the Government has already mentioned. I don't think it's weird that we're so small because we've been pushing this straw for so many hours now and we've got five hours left. This interpolation, it seems, is an incredible shot into the void. My friend Grimes is teaching us, teaching us what's in his habit, but he wants us to do it in his image, and it won't work. See, education, the present educational component and so on, it must be everywhere, not just in the subject, including in mathematics, including in sports education, even during rest and so on. In such a way that these debates would also be urgently needed in this House, and domestic education, when some are literally sent with the national anthem and with state symbols and with what else, does not contribute to the order of these things. I must say that there is a trustworthy person — Dr. Pikalo — sitting in the ministry of the chair. Anyone who gets into some kind of politics has a way with him. And this road must be clear. I don't think there's any doubt here, despite the fact that your anonymity is like the Holy Scriptures and you leaned on it, but no one knows what it really is. Look, I know the SDS doesn't mention some of their painful things. Of course not. And I'm going to mention here only Marinič, how long he's been sitting here among you, with all the weight of the act that the court has confirmed, and so forth, that I'm not talking about the party president and anything else, and now you're looking elsewhere to find something so burdensome, and you're obviously not succeeding, because you've got a lot of problems. We're talking about a lot of things today. In the introduction, Comrade Tanko discussed everything else but the content of the interpretations, because it is not so tangible. Look, we have researchers, sometimes luckily we see them on TV. Young, highly educated, trained, really doing amazing things. If we don't put money into such a youth, such experts, into such scientists, then we're on our way. We always say brain drain, brain escape, and when one example is also in the social science that 11 new jobs have been paid, it is the end of the world. There's a lot to talk about this sociology. It's about professional guidance and stuff. Look, professionally, it's not just the government, it's just the minister, it's just the school, it's the family. Make an inventory of your families and your friends, and you'll see where your parents want you to go. In Nova Gorica we also had education for a carpenter, for a builder and the like, and all of these projects failed because our parents didn't want to, because of the collapse of companies and so on. We know, in one period, we're all supposed to be notaries, then doctors, then lawyers, lawyers, and so on. No one would go after a machine engineer because it's true that a machine engineer in a good company, I know her in Goriška, works for a thousand euros, an expert. The call is directed by families, not just politics and the ministry. These researchers need to be cared for, for we do not have enough of them to boast about on a daily basis. We boast about athletes and other things because it is more massive, more populist, but to boast about researchers, with their success, which is rarely to be seen and heard. Look, they say we're wiggling on both eyes here in SD. In Social Democracy, we're not used to losing sight. If there is some kind of irregularity in our species, we can talk about it and drive things around in a way that we can clean up so we know if it's true or not true. It is true, however, that a different party, of course, needs all the political means only to avoid discussing the content that should be discussed, and this is always present. This minister filled a hole of 130 million at the Ministry of Education. He finally achieved in all these times of crisis that 16 million were allocated by the Government to the field of research. It's a perspective. Without knowledge, we're all one big poor thing. And don't expect people to freak out about it. Let us all work to ensure that this part of our ministry is also duly taken into account and that we will discuss the content, not one, as the President of the Government has said, about some of the air we are turning here instead of solving other things. Today, it has been repeatedly said that we should also interpret the President of the Government, and that is not the topic today. Let's go and see if we can defend her or not. I think so, despite all the trouble that's going on. See, the collapse of real estate law is justifiable at some point in time, but at some point in time it will have to be brought to life, because if you have some property, this property has some value and needs to be registered and properly evaluated. And there will be a lot more that this government will have to do, which is not popular, but not without it, because these are patterns not only in Europe, but in the world. And we'll do it as long as we can. Of course, I can't support this interpretation. Not because he's a minister of the Social Democrats' quota, not at all, but because in almost no treaty of yours, you're wrong and you're looking for some evidence that you can't give. He can't give because they don't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, get a mag behind him. Andrej Vizjak, then Mag. Majda Potter. Here you go, mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I do not have myself as an expert in education and education, which today is an interpretation against the Minister, but for good information. I studied for seven years in high school, one year in elementary school, I have a teacher-andragog education, but I am fortunately a natural-educated, mechanical engineer. When I listen to the arguments from the interpretation, I quote, say, "Interpellation refers not to the time when Minister Jernej Pikalo was Minister, but to work at another time, in another institution. That's why we're deeply indignant." This can be fully agreed upon. Totally. That's a quote from the Dessus argument. If the client spoke that way even a year ago, and six months ago, one month ago, see, their party colleague, or fellow Member Ivan Simčič, was once to have a strange certificate. I don't know what he did to him. Last time I asked him. No criminal proceedings are ongoing, they've never found anything wrong, and you've ruled him out and he's already been convicted. Did you see that? Now that I'm writing my fourth book, I'm just going to analyze different times. You know what's gonna come out of this -- tragic comedy. Why didn't you act like that in the case of Mr. Ivan Simčič? Next. "As for liability under criminal law, we will wait for the decisions of the court, which can only judge these matters." I couldn't agree more. Totally. It's only the right thing to do. For Minister Jernei Pikal, on his criminal responsibility for the time when he was not a minister before that, only the court is competent. Today there is talk of political responsibility. This is, of course, a quote from the argument of the Social Democrats. Why do we not do so in all cases? In all cases, ladies and gentlemen. And we have a bunch of people here who are already convicted. Look, this is probably the problem with this national council and a lot of national assemblies. Now that we're arguing for and against, I'll give my opinion. It was said, of course, that Dr. Franz Grad's opinion on the interpretation is true, and I'm going to give the opinion of a hungry citizen's doctor who's hungry. And what do you think is what a man who is hungry for when we share exactly as has been said, in a way of systematic corruption, EUR 1 million 400 thousand. It's systemic corruption. Not in this case, we have thousands in Slovenia. You're just going to analyze and figure out why we went bankrupt. Why? That's why.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u63	Mag. Vogrin, please try to focus on the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u64	Madam President, I've been expecting you. I didn't say at first that it would just seem like I wasn't talking about the point of interpolation because I waited for you to get trapped. Look, Minister Pikalo was talking about concessions. Where are the concessions in the interpellation? Where? We all speak very broad and deep, one like that, the other like that. Let's all have the same rights. Okay? Let's be honest with everyone. Of course, the Minister mentioned that interpellation is an attempt to account for higher education. Now, I wouldn't allow myself to be so imaginative, so bloated, because even if this minister was no longer a minister, I'm sure the social college would stay. I guess, I guess I would. Maybe the impact is so enormous that you wouldn't. I'll allow it. When we speak of course, the minister claimed the following, something was confirmed: "When I came to the Ministry, we found a hole of 130 million." And you've patched up this hole, Mr. Secretary. Now, we're still gonna have to start speaking the normal language. You, unfortunately, haven't patched it up, we've borrowed that money, and every month we charge taxpayers a new fee and they pay it off. You have estimated that such allocation of funds at the Ministry is more correct, and in principle this also has the right, as the former Minister has thought. Unfortunately, we've been thinking wrong for 23 years. We're just redistributing it, instead of creating it. And this is the fundamental problem of this country, redistribution instead of creation. Maybe it's just a comment that doesn't have a direct connection that sells bonds, how we bought them at a low price. Look, the economic law of supply and demand says when the supply is too large and the demand is too low, the price goes down. Now we should be concerned, because our bonds are so much on the market that there are too few buyers and no one wants to buy anymore and the price is falling. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, from my own experience, I know when we're in debt, that's one big shit. We should create and live on. That's the basis. Now perhaps we are not rich enough to spend human capital. I agree, Minister, with you completely, so I'm going to tell you the case. From the Faculty of Electronics, Computer Science and Informatics last year, they were at the World Cup of Universities in the third period. It was in a few papers. I have sent this with all the annexes, with all the arguments to the President of the State, Mr Pahor, with a modest desire to accept them and eventually show them time and give them some state recognition, for this is a high achievement. He even gave them an appointment on August 28th. Since they are not with the right parties, I suppose the deadline has been cancelled and they have never been accepted again. These three guys set up a company and they have 30% of their co-owners from London, and they're all going to London, but unfortunately they're not from a social college, they're from a science college. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Andrej Vizjak, who is currently missing, has the word mag. Majda Potter. In addition, let me say that Mr Branko Kurnjek and then Mr Jožef Jerovšek are being prepared. Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you. First of all, I will respond to this last remark by Mr Vogrin that political responsibility should be judged before criminal proceedings. But why do we think that the Social Democrats must decide on criminal responsibility for this, that the irregularities that have been read in this interpretation, which are called corruption, nepotism, clientism and many other things, and that they must first judge for this competent institution, because the political responsibility that they are supposed to judge through interpretation is based on this responsibility, which at least in the Group of Social Democrats we do not know about. But they know those who wrote an anonymous criminal complaint. Those who have problems with the vision of regulating the school field, and we are not talking about sport, although it is also present here, especially science, but we are just talking about education and we are calling for reforms of the education system, which is supposed to be so bad that root reforms are needed. I don't know where that came from, but good. Therefore, those who speak about this and have comments have heard what the vision of the Minister for this area was when he presented himself as a candidate for minister, and I say that the interpretation is also linked to the collision of two different concepts. I have already warned of one problem, pointing out that some require reform, another, this constant reading of overworked sociology and damage to some other areas. I do not want to debate these relations, but no one knows what the future prospects of individual professional groups will be, and there is no hero who would probably be able to tell what will happen in five years, let alone 10 years from now. However, I can say that Minister Pikalo follows, at least as far as higher education is concerned, the resolution on the national programme of higher education, whether or not we wish to do so, and also takes account of the decision of the Constitutional Court. That it's hard to reach an agreement, it's true. It is even harder to reach an agreement on some other things, because we like to express ourselves only roughly. The talk was that Minister Beast had prepared changes to his curriculum. Indeed, some of the changes in the curriculum for civic education, which in addition to the addition received, were also home-grown education and ethics carried out in 2008. But there has also been an expert analysis of these changes. This expert analysis showed a number of shortcomings, so that the curriculum never began to be implemented, but it was only in 2011 that a change was prepared after it was identified, which are all of the substantive and terminologyal complications of the prepared revision of the curriculum. That it was not a major intervention because the group did not have the authority to make major changes, but only to remedy the shortcomings, and it is true. Now what hangs out in the air is that the invitation we're talking about just flew right out of the sky, and it was just some kind of invitation someone invented to fill their pockets. Well, this is really a turnaround, because it is up to the Interpol investors to know that this call has been given the basis for receiving and deciding to prepare a public invitation to tender for the selection of formal education operations for citizenship in a multicultural society already in the operational programmes for the development of human resources for the period 2007-2013. And the operational programme was approved by a decision of the European Commission on 21 November 2007. Now we decide whether we want to be trained for life in the European Union, in this integration, in this community, 28 countries, whether they are trained or not. Are we going to prepare the young for this or not? And these are social and civil competences in which young people need to be trained. And let me just point out this, because I have in my hands an analysis of the learning plans of society and civil and domestic education and ethics from 2012, where some of them have also been identified in international research, I would say, the foxes or shortcomings that recent approaches are also trying to address. This is mainly the area of political participation of young people. And here I would like to draw attention to something where probably the SDS, with its concept and the Social Democrats, are fundamentally different with our concept. Since it is in these studies, and I now quote Eurydice 2012, the Civil Education Study in Europe, where it can also be read that the nature of the subject requires learning goals, which are more likely to be achieved through an active approach to learning – I learn by what I do, I find differences. With amendments to the legislation, the students were expelled from the school worlds, and we returned them to the sacred schools at the time of Dr. Lukšič's ministry. Thus, participation in democratic decision-making processes is best learned through active cooperation. And it would also be possible to find cases that I can't put into the obvious that what they were doing in the research we were talking about was static and not dynamic. Now what's static and what's dynamic, in this case I can't explain. But what I'm trying to say is that we're just taking some flat-rate evaluations and giving people the impression that the money that was meant for this research was, after some free-thinking, which is inspired by some group of researchers, and we don't see that it was part of a broader research with precisely defined objectives. However, the Minister stated in detail that the objectives had been achieved and the effects had been achieved. Now, that's either the answer we want to hear or the answer to, because we're more comfortable hearing it. However, I would advise that someone might also take into account the law on public sector wages and see that the salaries of the university employees are also part of this system so that they cannot be freely formed. I heard a statement in the SDS delegation's opinion that someone with more than 50,000 euros was supposed to have filled his pockets. Thus, it would be good to know what it is, but it might also be good to look at such rules as to see that part of the salary is earned from teaching work, part of the salary is earned from scientific research, that scientific research projects appear on the tenders and that it is very important for the tenders who is the holder of the project, since there is much more room for success on the invitation to tender for a project whose carrier is a reference person. And then some people explain it in their own way again. However, to me, it seems to be a perverse information about the fact that it may sound very strange to hear that more than a million funds for wages have been spent, let me tell you how many of the first jobs of young experts have been covered by this. I think I just remembered number 11. And I can't imagine how things will develop in the future if we don't learn the alphabet and see the snake in a twisted rope. I'll say it again. We can differ in concepts, but then let's say that there will be a debate on concepts, not hide behind anonymous complaints and seek political responsibility from this. Of course I won't support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye to all of you again! First of all, I would like to respond to some of the words that have been said at the outset today, by the representative of the applicants. Mr Tanko said that we had even excluded Mrs Trudo Cinderella from the party in the National Gazette. That is not true, Mrs Truda Cinderella has resigned as a member of the public for known reasons. Mr Vogrin also left the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, for which Mr Tanko, as a member of the Mandate-Election Commission, decided nine times in this National Assembly not to grant him immunity. The other thing is, I would like to respond to Mrs Pučnik's words, which she said in the position of the SDS Group, where, I read from the magnetogram, I quote, she said, "In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we are very well aware that we are not prosecutors or judges in the National Assembly, and we agree that the law enforcement authorities should do their work." Now, pay attention, I was the person who, on the Education Committee, made a procedural proposal not to discuss this subject on the Committee. Why, I'm going to quote from the magnetogram of my words that I said on the committee: "I'm basically set up to play judge and prosecutor." And then: "...that is the case where the complaint was filed, to be brought before other state authorities, that is, law enforcement authorities." Do we find any parallel between Mrs. Pučnik's words and my words spoken on the committee? On what grounds did I then make my procedural proposal? On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which in a very similar case decided that the National Assembly could not consider and take decisions which are exclusively within the competence of other branches of authority or other State bodies. If I withdraw now, I suppose, in fact, that Mr Tanko, also in the SDS, as a representative of the applicants, would have done the same if he were me, and that this would not have been wrong. However, as far as the substantive treatment of today's interpretation is concerned, I have already stated my position in the position of the Group of the People's List, which essentially came from under my pen, so that I would not repeat my words twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. After him please prepare Mr Branko Smodish, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Mr. Ivan Grill. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Here was an obvious day, I don't know, from the President of the Government and others, that interpretations in this mandate are numerous. Interpellations, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be written and the President of Parliament must probably not accept it if there are no real reasons for it. Unfortunately, this government is acting in this way and putting some ministers so ad hoc that in fact we cannot follow with our activities what is our sacred duty as an opposition party. The Minister here said it was his turn, and the Minister said it was an obstacle to the government. Now, what is the legitimate obstruction of the government or the functioning of the opposition, members of the official delegation with the President of Parliament Webro, have convinced ourselves when visiting the English Parliament, with the head of the opposition, who was eight years of Minister in Blair's Government. And when Mr Weber asked how the opposition was operating in the British Parliament, she said to him in amazement, because that is perfectly clear, the government has its own agenda and is carrying out its projects by voting, majority, in Parliament. However, the Council's duty is to prevent it from doing so. And nothing that is legitimate or what is not, the holy duty of the opposition is to invest in interpretation when it encounters matters that are politically, criminally, morally controversial. And I would like to say from this town that such observations are that this is an obstacle to the government, either by the President of the Government or by ministers simply being low, unhygienic and totally impeding European parliamentary practice. And it would be time for the current government to be aware of a little European parliamentary tradition so as not to attempt to attack the opposition with such unhygienic observations. Look, Mr. Minister defended himself that because of the obvious behaviour of the previous, I don't know, five or six years, participation in a project that was obviously done through the thumb, so that the budget allocated itself to the narrow circle around Minister Luksic, Mr. Minister is listed there as a contact person and coordinator that this is unacceptable that it was earlier. Is it logical, by this logic, that if someone were to kill someone and then become a minister, it would become clear that he was murdering that someone shouldn't have talked about it? Are these the qualities for a minister? Such an apology to me is, to say the least, terribly overturned. Look, these assets, nobody's denying it, they're just a little bit related, a little bit along the friendly line. And they were enormously tall. Of course, some of the discussions then came to light, some of the works that had already been published, but some seemed to have had a bearing on this project of civic education. But Mr. Minister, you wanted to take us to a whole other area today. You mentioned that if this goes on, that you will be morally responsible for your actions six years ago, that then it will be university, freedom of education, and, God forbid, theology. Then you used the Lateran Council intensely several times, I don't know what you were going to say, but then the primacy of the pope is probably and the wars that started in Palestine, I don't know, it wasn't a clear collation, but I have to tell you that theology is already permanent at interpretation under the left governments, under the left. And I'm not their lawyer, but look, it doesn't seem strange to you that the inadmissibility that I mentioned on the investigative committee that in April 1941 Hitler was put in jail next to my father, of course, who came in this way to arrest him, like these hikes, I don't speak against the uprising in Maribor, against the municipal councillors, that at that time they closed all the Styrian priests. It's also the writer's hoax, and now I'm having orchestrated attacks. I've had orchestrated attacks. But, Mr. Secretary, I would tell you that this belongs to patriotic education. I don't know what you've introduced, but what happened at the time of the occupation, how Kulturbud and the Germans betrayed everyone who was Slovenian-oriented, and that is no longer to be said in this House today. And that's interpretation against those. And I will say this because I know that awareness is also important for future generations. And look, I don't know, Mr. Minister, in these discussions I didn't read but a summary – have you done anything for positive patriotism in these programs? And historically reflected patriotism? You know, you come from the FDV when the former President of the Republic, Dr. Türk, once spoke about patriotism, the need for patriotism at the beginning of his term, when it was not yet fully defined, one professor also from your college, with FDV, Mr. Miheljak attacked him as if it were a totally pre-modern category, a totally pre-modern category. Of course, Mr Miheljak also felt obliged to attack me because I mentioned that my father had been brought up by the Gestapo in April 1941 with the help of the local slobs to arrest me, and that this was associated with me and many who suffered at the time, whose ancestors were then aware of this, did not rise up again, I stress those marches in Maribor that took place, which were a replica of those Nazi occasions in Maribor in 1941. And we should no longer talk about this or be attacked with all the cannons, because we are from conscious Slovenian families who were then upright. I was told by a well-known Madman why Mr. Miheljak is acting like one. Every time I mention it, it attacks me, every time. Why? What was in his cradle, I know the reasons why he was so upset. And Mr. Minister, in this area, since the coalition will protect you, you have a lot of work to do. Directing youth towards true patriotism, even though Mr Miheljak will say again that this is pre-modern, that we should not discuss this, from the FDV. See, when a colleague of Jerai's Minister Grilc asked what goals of patriotism, patriotic education – which you said was a very positive value and if it is a positive value I think you are defending – and she asked in the written question of Minister Grilco, whose patriotic values were pursued by the first years of high school, to everyone, the book by Vojnovič Jugoslavija, my home country. And he's free-minded: "In the context of action I grow with a book." We know that this is how you buy one author and give him economic success. The Minister freely replied: "We did not pursue any objective of patriotic, educational, patriotic education in the action of Rastem with the book." And I wonder, school minister, if it's when you invest so much money that every high school student in high school will be given a book, whether it makes sense that the values of home and patriotic education are not being followed there. Did you intervene in this regard? I'm not surprised what the direction of the current power is. I'm saying, if you're criticizing Nazi methods in 1941, then you're being criticized, too, and it's obvious to me that I'm a writer there, I didn't tange him, not at all, I was just arguing with it. I mean, Mr. Minister, there's a lot of work to be done, because such malicious interpretations of any word should not have happened. While it was designed, the president of the commission of inquiry invited an investigative committee. To have different societies then cause sharp reactions. We prevented her from doing three-quarters of the project because some of us didn't want to hear it, or one of us, I was on the committee for the first time. But the plan was insidiously crafted.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u71	Mr Jerovšek, interpellation is a point.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u72	Yeah. It's patriotic. The minister mentioned a lot. Very. I'm holding on to that, Madam President. But if you do, you have to listen and understand. But you're successful at stopping a man, and then his mind skips, and then the ordered writings criticise the Members. And Mr Minister, I really want to know if there are any effects on this project, which has been so expensively paid and overpaid. There should be effects today. How much more do our young people know about those components of patriotic education related to history, with all these components belonging to patriotism? Or – I ask you again because you come from the FDV – do you think patriotism is a premodern category, like Professor Micheljak? These are very important answers, because if you have a different opinion, but if it turns out that this Lukšičev and your project have improved, it was positive that the general awareness of responsible patriotism in Slovenia has improved, then I will change my mind. However, if some other things have been paid under this cover, as it seems, then of course I am also one of those who may claim political responsibility. Objective responsibility. And the authorities, the others, who have the responsibility in the investigation, should determine the subjective responsibility. However, I do not accept what Mr Kurnjek said that we should not talk about this in Parliament at all. Yes, it is eternal error and pretense and deception for the people. Parliament is the right place and the opposition is obliged, as they say in the English Parliament, to obstruct the government in good projects. With all legitimacy. They don't read there either, whether the opposition is right or wrong. The public believes that the government is always wrong, that it is wrong. And with us, the media is spittin' all the time after the opposition. And I must say that I am selective in these matters. I must say that when, in her previous term, colleague Jelusic defended patriotism as Minister of Defence, and was attacked by colleagues from the left party, Yuri, both of them, Anderlič, that I defended her. I defended her even though I was the opposition. I know, even at the time, that they had at the cathedral, Mr. Minister, where you worked, that she felt very bad about being criticized. I've heard some things. And I am selective, and I will continue to be selective, especially in matters as important as these things. And, Mr Minister, you said that there was an opportunity today to open a serious debate, to look forward to, to serious debates on education, about patriotism and about these projects, and that there are no such opportunities. Mr Minister, the Minister has the opportunity to launch this debate in Parliament as well, so don't launch this report here, into this house. In fact, it is the duty of the Minister of Education to see that there are shortcomings here to open the debate. Will you open this debate? It seems to me that these discussions are being fought by the current option and that, in fact, by ideological interventions, this debate is being prevented. For in today's time of Europe, at this moment when patriotism is once again a topic, it is imperative to open such a debate immediately in a post-criminal time when it is horribly observed that some are cutting borders along Europe's former borders. But whether you have a disappointment in your own coalition to open this debate, or whether again we will be those who point out the historical parallels, unfortunately, in some cases that they are in one part – or we can say so – events in these uprising movements, such as the Maribor Marches, were a replica of the Nazi events of 1941 and I will say so and let them attack me. And that is an urgent need to be said. And if intellectuals think it's not, it's their problem, then they support some of the things that happened at the expense of the Slovenians. I am really interested in when this debate will be triggered, which you have presented as the problem of this House, that this debate is not. I think that, in some elements of this in the previous term, we spoke within the Committee on Defence when I was President, and we have also opened such topics in agreement with the Minister. You have every opportunity. And to answer some of the things that appear so frighteningly in the media that it is not allowed to talk about in this House, that it is premodern, that it is low and that the current authority has a whole bunch of writings that then write about it paid and attack from Slovenian positions. So a whole bunch of things have been opened up today in this offensive introduction, you and the Prime Minister of the Government. I am surprised to the President of the Government that when her cabinet sinks, when, on what is a good governess – good governance, there is no spirit or hearing, because otherwise it could not happen that she chooses a health minister for three months and then chooses a minister who redefines with a fashion magazine four times and resigns. The theme is the answer to the Brotherhood she had here. She's literally drowning in Slovenia in front of her eyes, and she's here with completely distorted things attacking the opposition. The government has to rule. And which president or prime minister does not want the opposition is on a dangerous path. But if she is so brutally and distortedly attacked, the question is, What does she have to say about democracy? In Europe, there is a democratic, parliamentary system of something normal and obviously not yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Jernej Pikalo asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u75	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Mr Jože Tanko, who later made a statement, will have the floor for the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice President. I think there's some explaining to be done. What I meant by that fourth lateran council, I think you should explain, because maybe it wasn't the best done. In fact, when Pope Innocent III is. In one of the canons he also laid down rules for investigating priests and other adulterers. And these are the rules of inquiry that are still in force today, and we also have them in today's penal system, and in some ways we can say that we are the heirs of these rules. At the same time, I wanted to say that the year 1215 is particularly interesting because then, in another country, in short, in England, Magna Carta Libertatum is established, in short, the Great Charter of Freedoms, where an individual or, if you would like, a parliament is acquired against the King. But my main point has been that since then, we have had these basic rules for investigating priests and other adulterers, and this is still in our criminal system in some way summarized today. And if these rules applied then, let them apply today, and of course for all. As for Mr Vojnovich and this, I must say that I have started reading the book, and I have not read it to the end. But the book itself is not what it is. The book is critical, the book is young, the book is quite different, and Mrs Jeraeva has asked me about it and we have had a debate on it once before. I also don't think it's the minister's job to prescribe the appropriateness of high school novels. Perhaps in the first year we are not talking about formal adults in the third year, but mostly, yes, but then we could say that Michelle Walbeck, who was here last week or even this week, is unacceptable because there are certain scenes in the platform that may not be suitable for high school students. Or would you say that its base particles are not suitable? Or would you say that Italo Calvino: If one winter night a traveler because it is a postmodernist novel, it is not appropriate for our high school students. That I'm not talking about Zola or anything like that. I don't think it's meant for you or me to create a prohibitorum index for things we really don't need. As for your idea that the project was overpaid. See, for each such project and for all ESF projects there are very precise rules on how much you can pay for a given job. For each job, the pricelist and the pricer must be kept by anyone who manages these funds, otherwise these funds are not recognised to him. For example, I'll give you: €520 gross on the author's field for the most difficult work. So much is paid by the author's fee, and these are rules not adopted by the Ministry of Education and Sport, but by the then SVR, today's MGRT, and so is that. And of course, the heavens did not depart. As far as pre-modernity is concerned, I must say that I agree with you in two points. Because it's funny to talk about domestic education being premodern, because the national state is a modern invention. Then you can't talk about the fact that teaching about patriotism is a pre-modern thing. No, no, no. It's always modern. And secondly, when we talk about civic education, of course, we can talk very differently, and we can also talk very differently about domestic education, especially here is the question of how to perceive it. We can do it in the way of the 19th century Blut und Boden, but of course we can do it in the way of Jürgen Habermas and how domestic education is actually the maintenance of democratic procedures every time. Such a wide range of citizens' diasopon is mainly native education. And you are right and thank you for the initiative, I will be happy to have this debate, we will also inject it, and I will be happy to attend it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek asked for the replica and he has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I'm sorry to have to tell you that you now explained why you used the Lateran Council and theirs, but you didn't say what you had in mind at the time, but this time you did it very scholasticly. But well, you've used one, because obviously you've had that thesis in your head all along that God forbid that theology will be the subject of interpretation, but it's permanent and I'm not defending them, it's permanent in this society and under the ideology of power option. It's permanent. For if anyone says in Styria that the Catholic Church has collapsed with the invader, it is such an untruth, there was no traitor among the priests, they were all imprisoned, all evicted, but it was also launched through, with the help of the FDV and the Udba, that this is part of the truth. And here you have to correct these injustices, because there was a clergyman of vocabulary and patriotism, but because of the truth I speak, not because of defence, I have no interest in having to. And the last time, once again, they brought up when they said that Hitler's priests had been shut down, everything on the list was raised. It's obviously something sinful to say out loud in this society. And of course those who attack, I'm afraid to attack from one purely other position that was defeated between the NOBs. And now, look, you have very manipulated my mention of the action by Rastim with a book and what goals and values the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education wanted to achieve with this. Since the answer was clear that the objectives of national and civil education were not followed by this, this is in dispute with me. It's controversial, Mr. Secretary. Not because of the author of Vojnović and the title of his book. Now, it's like I'm attacking you, so you should prescribe the appropriateness of the novel. God forbid! But that's exactly what this power does. You said it wasn't an interest to create a prohibitorum index. We had a case last night that he was withdrawn. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u79	Mr Jerovšek, three minutes have passed [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u80	And the President of the Government demanded this, through financial pressure by advertising. [[…]] Mr. Secretary, this happened last night. The withdrawal of the movie from Planet TV. And don't say it's not an interest, it's an express interest in this authority. And don't look us in the eye and tell us what you're actually doing [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u81	Mr Jerovšek, the replica is three minutes, three minutes and a half you speak [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u82	Yeah, and that's all. I also agree that we should send a little more Zolaj to school. I have to say "j'accuse" here with him more than once – I charge. This Zola scream should happen again and again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u83	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I think that, after all these evadings of the Minister and also of the coalition, we will return to modernism of the present time to talk again about the problem that has taken place on the subject of this interpretation, when we have a fictitious call for an issue on the one hand, and on the other hand, people who have political options or even related ones will be reported. When we have, not only corruption, but also political clienteleism and, of course, nepotism. It is the modernism of this time that the Minister and the coalition simply discuss this topic in every way possible. When they're talking to each other and doing the other. They talk about the fight against clientism and corruption, they adopt laws, they tighten legislation and, on the other hand, procedures and calls allowing exactly this to happen. And because he realized exactly clientism, because it's realising exactly nepotism and it's for no small sums. This is not the only case that is the subject of interpolation. Here you have a new case where the Ministry is involved and there is also talk of a call for proposals where quotas are already distributed in advance. This is also the subject of the complaint and is the holder of the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. So the technology is continuing. The same model used once before shall continue in this case. And for free we connect with councils, popes and other saints or saints, if you are doing something completely different in practice. The case of Stožica is also an example of clientelism of that period. It's exactly the same technology. A blockade of funds for all others and deliberately transfers money for the Stožice project. We are talking only about these matters, exclusively about these matters and the Minister repeats the exact same model, the same concept. And again, it's a few million funds that are going to be distributed in some way. It is distasteful that the Minister in his reply, verbally and verbally, because he wrote nothing in writing about it, defends himself by the alleged conduct of his predecessors from the SD who are in these positions. Why is he doing this? If he knew anything about it, if he had anything to say about it, he had many opportunities in the years leading up to the function. He didn't say a word about it. If he had something to say about it, he could write in response to the interpretation he sent a few days ago to the National Assembly. Not a word. So it's just about making some impression that everyone was the same and everybody was doing it. Not once did he mention the name of his predecessor at the ministerial post from your political option, Mr Luksic. Not once. And not once did he distance himself from the act that occurred at that time. How will it be if he repeats it now in a very similar way? And yet another conclusion is that the problems are clearly related to clientelism, corruption, nepotism, in fact, the only linkage of this coalition. When we look at ministers who are the subject of interpretation, when we look at their actions, when we look at what they have received, let us actually find the same print everywhere. Gaining some wealth for a political team or for kinship. Same print. And you're defending all these people without shame, on all the weights, and you're going to do everything you can to keep doing the functions that you've assigned them, obviously, for the entire term of office. But we're talking about cases where irregularities are happening, where things are documented, and no one is talking about how the amounts don't hold, or that there's been this division, that the people involved are not those written here, not political and related and so on. But you focus the debate mainly on things that are not in interpretation. On the other hand, the offence which Mr Stepišnik gave up is less than what we are talking about today. He gave up, and I don't know why, but he gave up. And all the others who have similar things, you insist on the position to the place. And even, I'll say, you don't defend the arguments, but you're redirecting the discussions into a historical period, to other departments, to other ministers, to predecessors and so on. That's irresponsible. And it's obvious, as I said in the introduction, that this technique of running away from responsibility, of diverting attention is actually crucial, and that it attaches to what I said in the introduction, words are one, sounding words are one, and on the other, a lot of dirty acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Pikalo asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The judgment on a fictitious invitation to tender is, yes, Mr Tank is no longer the judgment on a fictitious invitation to tender, of course, yours and not mine. [[…]] I agree that, of course, the system or technology of anonymous complaints continues. I don't write them, but those who write them do, of course, know what it's about, and they usually have the first information about it. However, as regards the Stožica project, I can say that the competent authorities at the Ministry have found no irregularities, not under this government, but earlier. As for the operational programme itself, Mrs Potat told you earlier that he had been signed with the European Commission in 2007, so he was signed by the government of Janez Janša, not by Borut Pahor, but by the government of Janez Janša. And within this, within the framework of the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources, we have five development priorities: promoting entrepreneurship and adaptability; promoting employability of job seekers and inactive ones; developing human resources and lifelong learning; equality of opportunity and promotion of social inclusion; and institutional and administrative skills. In the context of this third development of priorities, i.e. the development of human resources and lifelong learning, several key competences were outlined: communication in the mother tongue, communication in foreign languages, mathematical capacity and basic skills in science and technology, digital ability, learning, social and civic skills, self-initiative and entrepreneurship – civic and social skills. This is a thing set by the government in 2007. And for each of these abilities, at least one call has been made. Who's putting their heads in the sand here now?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Smodish has his word, and I pray they prepare a mag. Andrej Šircelj, then Mr Ivan Grill and Dr Andrej Črnak Maglič. Here you go, Mr. Smodish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, all present, good afternoon. Respected and respected, many debates are taking place in this National Assembly on a number of matters affecting the daily lives of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. But I don't think today's debate is necessary. Let me start by adding, and let me make it clear that I will not support the interpretation against Minister Pical. Social Democrats advocate a quality and accessible public education. We support conditions where each individual can develop his or her potential to perfection. We therefore support the work of any minister who understands that knowledge is public good and that quality and accessibility are the highest responsibility. The measures taken so far by the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikala, have convinced us that we are following the expectations of a social democratic school policy. And as long as my assessment goes like this, I will support his work. Despite the unfavourable public financial circumstances in the government, Dr Jernej Pikalo managed to ensure that standards and standards are maintained at a level that allows quality education and education activities. With the rebalancing of the budget adopted by the previous government for 2013, he managed to obtain an additional EUR 64 million by listening to the new ministerial team in the education and science budget. Higher funds, also planned in the budget for this year, are under the heading for higher education by €6 million. The Ministry also deviated from the inappropriate practices that had been established during the period of its predecessor. This is how Minister Pikalo plans changes carefully, based on expert analyses and agreement with the public concerned. It also eliminated some of the prejudices of the predecessor, thus, through the rulings of the Administrative Court, it succeeded in repealing the clientistic calls for complaints from the National Investigation Office. He also succeeded in abolishing the forced marriage of a number of centres in the Maribor area. In the end, I would add two more things, including Mr. Horvath. We're really lucky to have Minister Pikal to defend small schools. That's why we still have small primary schools in Pomour. But interestingly, as far as payment of disproportionates, as far as I know, Minister Pikalo has not accepted the ZUJF. Then I would add, patriotism was said earlier, repeatedly, I think patriotism is also when you respect your country, institutions in the country. And it's also a patriotic thing to say about your country and your institutions. I would conclude by understanding that there may be capitalists, that the minister of thorns is in their fifth and also education, because uneducated employees were also, if we look at it in history, silent and did not dare to claim their rights. And it's all going to the capital. In the end, I'll say it again. I won't support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about interpolation, we are talking mainly because, on the basis of the invitation to tender, funds for a project, including patriotic or civic education, should be given and, of course, then also realized on the basis of a non-transparent procedure and, of course, on the basis of friendly, some say customeristic, and so on, connections. Of course, this project was financed at EUR 1 million 450 thousand. That actually represents a lot of money. Of these, EUR 1 million was spent on salaries, fees, business contracts. In his speech at the outset, the Minister said that he did not prescribe taxes, that he was not the one who would actually prescribe any law that would tax anything in the country. And I completely agree with him. However, the money for this project has been made on the basis of taxes, on the basis of the various taxes we have in our system, which are usually proposed by the Minister of Finance of the Government, and according to the Rules of Procedure, all other ministers agree to introduce a tax. And given that the President of the Government has made quite a few references to taxes today, there have also been various increases in taxes in this government, which have also been intended to finance various projects, even in the context of public procurement, of course, but also in a non-transparent way, and also in the way that money has actually been spent too efficiently, inefficiently or that it has been spent completely without having any effect in fact. And here comes the question of transparency. And here is the issue of the content of these projects and, of course, the effectiveness of these projects. But if we go essentially to the efficiency of public procurement, then of course we can find that not only this case, but also many others, are ineffective. Because they are ineffective, they do not give their added value. Since they do not add value, there is no added value in society. In fact, society does not have enough or insufficient, but it can be a social area, and it can be a technical area, any area, even in the field of humanitarianism. That's why we're where we are. On the one hand, we increase taxes, we want to introduce even unconstitutional laws to tax citizens and citizens or their property, and on the other hand we have actually ineffective projects. And if, of course, we are talking about the last case of why money is actually being spent, then we can also talk about how the property tax should be used to finance such or other projects under the general budget. That's what the President of the Government was talking about today. And of course, this government is limitedly responsible or not limitedly responsible for the fall of this tax. Of course, she forgot to say that her government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, had written in the Real Estate Tax Act that the tax base was the one that was determined on the basis of the mass valuation of real estate. And that in 2006, the government of Janez Janša said that this tax base would not be used for the taxation of real estate, when the Prime Minister of the Government answered Mr Miran Porč's question. You can take a look at that. Running away from responsibility is incredible here and because, of course, we do not have efficiency in the field of and constitutional law in the area of the introduction of taxes and, of course, we do not have efficiency in the field of public procurement. And if we look at what actually happened to this project, including domestic or civic education, it is necessary, as my predecessors, including Mr Jerovšek, said, to look at what the actual effects of this project are. But to me the effects of this project, if we are talking about civic and domestic education – and of course everyone can imagine something of their own, and the minister is the one who will actually define what it is. Determined not only within a narrower area, but also probably within the framework of global surveillance, and in which way this national or domestic education will be based. And here is the question that is being asked – in which direction this domestic education, which was spent a million 450 thousand euros, is actually going. And here you have to tell what the role of this object today or not, as an object in school, but this substance actually in education and what the effects are. What are the effects, if we find on the basis of the news, based on the pictures, that young people also use some already discarded symbols in their public presentations, that even in some classrooms teachers are painting and turning children into some surviving symbols and symbols that have actually been rejected by the whole European public. And here I am interested in the Minister's opinion on how he feels about this. And of course, how this spent money on civic education affects that, after all, patriotic symbols are not used in public education, but are used by some others. Because the images of classes with blue caps and red ruts, stars and so on probably don't show that, in my worldwide belief, this money was actually used effectively. Whether it is part of patriotic and civic education or now it is the part that it is. Whether that's what we're worried about or not. Perhaps not, but today we have our symbols in the country and Europe has rejected some of the symbols, especially those expressing totalitarianism. For this reason, I am interested in how effectively this money has been spent for the fact that patriotic education and civic education, which we live in the country of Slovenia, is actually presented to the youngest generation, because we all know, and it is historically known that the educational process in this regard is extremely important. And I am also interested in the reaction if it comes to the fact that in Slovenia, not state symbols are used, but the symbols of some other systems, surviving systems, how the Minister reacts in such respects. Indeed, this is happening to us, and probably, at least in my behaviour, it is not the interest of teaching patriotic education to display some other symbols when we are talking about the effectiveness of money spent. In this regard, I would expect the Minister's reply and also his attitude to these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u91	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u93	I'm sorry. Do you have a replica, Mr. Horvat? Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to replicate to my respectable colleague Branko Smodish, a pomurski cousin. You know, we're Members of Parliament in an office where we do things and, of course, we listen to the meeting, so it's not [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u95	Mr. Horvath, I find, I apologize, since I haven't been conducting the session all along, you have a replica to your discussion since the beginning of the day. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u96	Not mine, Mr. Branko Smodish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u97	So from the beginning. To the debate, my friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is that we are probably Members and Members of Parliament committed to the truth. And I am in one part as an opposition Member, like the one who, of course, does not support this government, but I said, I must be honest and objective and I have commended the Minister, and I am doing this once again because I have an extremely good experience with him, which we have just had our correspondence, which went to pay for the payoffs. And I would like to explain to the Slovenian public here that my colleague Smodiš spoke completely through when he spoke about the fact that the ZUJF blamed wage imbalances. Of course, we know that it is not that these wage imbalances were created long ago, that then simply Minister Borut Pahor Irma Pavlinič Krebs did not do as she should, and then the court did. And my correspondence with the minister was positive, so I said that he had a good feeling that small rural, porpoise schools have big problems with paying off pay imbalances because they don't have money. Therefore, I would like to clarify once again that the payment of the wage imbalances with which public institutions today have major problems has nothing to do with the ZUJF. That's like comparing, say, pears with nails. This is all I wanted to explain to the public of Slovenia. Thank you, Madam Vice President, for giving me your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Jernej Pikalo has the floor. I apologize for taking your word back then. Here you go, Mr. Pickalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Two things about transparency and efficiency. As far as transparency is concerned. The call, not the project, the call – let's be clear – has two substantive priorities and different organisations have been able to apply to each of these substantive priorities. It was an invitation to tender. And from each of these two, one project was selected. Here we mix the invitations and the projects and the pears all together. That's one. Two. As far as transparency is concerned. It was published on the website of the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Official Journal, Info calls, Proeco.si, Idrian-Cerkljan Development Agency, a special notice on the websites of Euridis, in short one of the most visited websites by means of education. Then at the Regional Development Agency for Pomurje, etc. so that the transparency of who could have applied with all their references, I think we'll have a hard time discussing, especially because it's not the last time, and I can say that here because there is no secret, I had two targeted research projects before, during the Minister of the Beast. So I have all the references to civic education besides education. So it will be difficult to talk about transparency. However, as for efficiency, which is one of the most important criteria for me, I must say whether or not you get the matter returned from the European budget. And this case was reimbursed at 85%, just as it was, of course, set up. That's efficiency. If the money is recovered from the European budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh wishes to speak in business.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u102	Madam Vice President, am I working now because I am here in the National Assembly in this meeting room, am I not working? Ambassador Jože Horvat said he was in office. Am I working now or not working? It seems inappropriate for me to use the replica and also the way in which individuals are characterized, which more than others are sitting here in the debate room, because it seems to us to be worth it. And I'm protesting this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Lucky Meh. I can say that everyone who is in the Chamber of the National Assembly, Members and Members, and all the other colleagues and representatives of the Government are working in the Hall of the National Assembly, which does not mean that others who are not currently in the Chamber would not work. I'm moving on to the next one. The replica has a mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u104	Yes, thank you very much. Mr Minister, as far as I am concerned that the criterion of effectiveness or the measure of effectiveness is only that some of the European funds are recovered – you have only mentioned that the criterion is that something is recovered from European resources in the field of education and education – but I cannot agree. In this regard, I think that, if it comes to civic or patriotic education, the criterion of effectiveness is much more. Probably can't be measured on a weekly or a monthly basis, maybe not every year. Perhaps, though, it can be measured in decades or five years when it is actually determined what a youth’s relationship is and, of course, later also a slightly older youth and also an adult’s country. And finally, historically, if we look at some countries that have a long history since the Great Britain of Austria and, of course, it was Austria-Hungarian and so on, it has always looked at domestic and civil education, whether it was an object in school or not, what kind of relationship people have with their country, how they respect it and, after all, how they represent it in the world. And, of course, what they have to do with the symbols and the values of this country, the values in the sense of how it came from, what it came from, and so on and so forth. We can say bureaucratic-administratively that if we did get the money then from the European Union, of course this is something because they financed me there. However, I do not think that the bureaucrats in Brussels have gone too far into the effectiveness that I have just mentioned. That's what it's going to mean. It was here again on tender terms and so on, and we probably all know how this works in the country. But once again, let us leave Brussels now, say that efficiency is, should be shown above all and the usefulness of this project in that children or young people do not use some discarded symbols, because for this country the tradition is that they are, and that in schools the teachers would not go along with the students who wear tattoos wearing red stripes and so on, because we also rejected these symbols, at least I think, because it was also a symbol of the totalitarian system. And there are probably other symbols and also in other countries where they had similar systems. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u105	three minutes [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u106	This is also what the European Declaration said, and these symbols have been rejected. [[…]] That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary, and that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has asked for the floor. Dr. Jerney Pikalo has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Look, what we have here is different views on what efficiency is. What you call efficiency, I call success. You know, that's the difference. For me, efficiency is when you get the money back, but success is what you were talking about, of course. And I can tell you're right to a certain extent. I think it is necessary to commend the government that has called for this call because things have finally begun to move. Not only at this national level, but, of course, how to educate future generations after 2004, also for another of our communities, which is also ours, and this is the European or supranational community. That's the idea. And, well, I'm saying, in part, I agree with you. I also agree that it is not the only criteria for effectiveness to be recovered, but we both agree that as far as public finances are concerned, this is one of the more important criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mr Janez Ribič and Mr Srečko Meh are being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! When we prepared this interpretation, text and intention to submit it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we knew in advance that there would be no support in this coalition, no matter what the allegations, the accusations or the search for political responsibility would be. It's already out in the first place. Yesterday, too, the coalition, at least that's what the media heard today, decided to support Minister Pikal as well as Virant, in advance, regardless of what we are discussing today. You have made this decision and you have all the legitimate right, but you probably have a responsibility to go ahead. I would ask the Minister why, in his opening remarks, he was deceiving the public, telling the truth that we would be wasting 16 hours of time. Where did he get the information from 16 hours ago? I am sure that he too has read the agenda that today's meeting is scheduled for a good 9 hours, and I am sure it will be concluded even earlier. For what reason did he decide to report such a vehement message to the public, we will spend 16 hours needlessly. You are also explaining to us, mainly by coalition speakers, that today's debate is unnecessary so that it is not necessary. See, when we proposed that an important issue, namely, all of these events related to the Minister, should be discussed on the home committee, the initiative that we have also foreseen was, of course, a procedural proposal that this debate should not be carried out. We have already said at that meeting, which took a few minutes, that we do not want to determine the guilt or non-violence of the Minister, but only to hold a debate. And because you didn't want it, the only chance we had was to write the interpolation, put it in, and today we have an opportunity to discuss it. Nevertheless, on the part of the Minister on a specific, not an accusation, but we did not get the questions raised primarily by our proposer. I would also like to comment on what Mr Minister has now expressed as a definition of efficiency. It is a game of words – success, efficiency. There's no such thing as an exact separation between the boundaries here. And to measure the effectiveness here just by getting the funds refunded, I don't think that's the most meaningful thing to call it, the criteria that would justify any project, any call. And that is why we are often many projects for which funds are also obtained through calls, the very purpose and the sole pursuit of this money. As far as it is concerned, Mr. Minister, the transparency that this has been published in what media, in the Official Journal and so on, we all know, you and I, how it is with public procurement in Slovenia. This is also often pointed out by the Court of Auditors and we know that through public procurement cases can always be manipulated, concealed and pre-selected, if they work hard and prepare the tendering conditions written on the skin, or so written that it is also written to the specified tenderer. And here, too, I firmly believe that this project has been pre-arranged, of course, who will get it. And here are the accusations or, I will say, questions about whether there were, in particular, those who participated in the SD, Mr Lukšić, as well as you as project leader, we did not get any denial. You're trying to convince us here somehow, everything in this project was transparent, without any suspicion of customerism and so on. The coalition also repeats this rhetoric, but look at the interpretations that we have also made on the basis of various accusations, mainly in the media, which we have invested in our parliamentary group, I am talking about Mr Luksic in the previous term, and the Consignors were already aware that the call was tailored to a specific user and that everything was transparent at the time. You're also saying that after some inspection, the Ministry found that everything was fine, but why is the National Investigation Office now, at least I think it was the Bureau that didn't file criminal charges. It also raises doubts that this call was contrary to the law. Also, interpellation against Mrs Kresalov, the then coalition, of course, was vehemently advocating how transparent everything is, how everything is in the best interests of Slovenia. Why were there charges? And it's justified. And I'm afraid that maybe time will also show that this anonymous appeal was, of course, also on some real basis. Today, too, we have read that a new, anonymous complaint has been filed, and look for it, and I am not in favor of it, but it usually turns out that where there is smoke, there is fire. Perhaps those of you who have already mentioned the charges may know something about it. Then again, Mr Minister, when you were first asked by the media, under the terms of the disputed project, you immediately tried to blame the fact that this civic education was not already introduced into school when Mr Turk's term came. Surely, at the time they took over the government in the situation they were then, it was not likely that it was a priority for him to go up on his nose at the time. But I ask myself, and I ask you, you are now a good year, you are a minister, who is certainly in your little finger, why you are not insinuating him that he will, of course, begin to do so. Then, look, also yours, we can call it thank you, you found the funds for those dropouts necessary financial resources for your department. See if you can get these funds with some calls, international, or some donations, or perhaps some rationalisations, so that you can save so much, all the credit, a hat down. But all the funds that were, of course, provided, which is obviously nothing wrong, but, as university representatives say, it is still too small, but this is due to the debt. But why have we witnessed in the last year as a mere debt? And at the expense of borrowing to patch up or search for funds, look, this is the easiest, especially at high interest rates. And what my colleague Smodesh mentioned earlier was that the Public Finance Balance Act brought me no idea how bad it was for your department, and I'm asking the coalition again if this marriage was so bad, why don't you change it? As far as we can see, you are capable of marriage within three days, any kind of marriage, writing and, of course, accepting it. This was the last case, the Real Estate Tax Act, where you wrote it in a few days, really it was short, but also here you could do it, and you accepted it. So not to talk about the law that was necessary at the time, which is why the current President of the European Commission, or in general Europe, must actually treat him so that we also have some credibility towards the European institutions, and that is probably why this law is still in force here. I'll support this interpolation on my own, no matter what the outcome is. I believe that these charges brought by those who have written this charge will also prove to be justifiable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Jernej Pikalo asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that you have a very ambivalent opinion on this – criminal acts and not. Because in the interpolation, of course, you wrote the wrong article, but in the interpolation you quote and you report a crime to me. Once after that, you say there are no crimes, now you're backing the case. Let's decide, please, let us decide on the crime and also decide whether you are the court and the prosecution that will handle the case. As for the statement of 16 hours, I have to say a little apology, but the point is that I had both nine hours and 20 minutes in my head. And that's where the public's apology applies. However, as regards the distinction between public procurement and public procurement, this was not the case. Public procurement is carried out under the Public Procurement Act and is intended for construction services, equipment and so on. Absolutely not for research projects. Research projects or these projects are implemented through the Budget Implementation Act and this is the only way to do it, not through public procurement. So there's just a little correction about that. As far as priority is concerned, see, we have been discussing all day now how civic education should be a priority, how these content should be, and I hear it from your government benches. Then you tell me your minister didn't think it was a priority. Yeah, that's how it goes together. If we've been listening here for an hour now, for a few hours now, about how this should be a priority, then you're saying it didn't seem like it to your minister. At least I don't get those arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič or you have a replica of Mr. Ivan Grill, of course you now have the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u114	Dear Minister, I have said nicely that, at the time of Mr Janš's government with Minister Türk's appearance, there were certainly more priority issues that had to be dealt with at that time than the things that the Minister himself did not know. But you, who actually led this project, who actually had everything in a small finger, as I said before, and I wonder if you had so much to do with this project, why didn't I tell you to introduce it? And as far as the charges are concerned – we are not a court, we never said that and no one says at this time that you are actually accused here of having some legal conviction, but we are just summarizing what was, of course, published in the media on the basis of an anonymous application. Moreover, as regards public procurement. I've made a comparison here, as well as for public procurement, things are so beautifully cut that exactly one thing can be written on the skin so that they can get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Behind her, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, Minister and co-workers and, of course, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! Yeah, maybe we should start with that last one. Of course, this did not seem to be a priority to the previous Minister of your kind, but he thought the priorities of the concession, but what had happened to them, and we saw what the epilogue had been like in the Administrative Court. Now, to actually go to what is at the heart of the debate, let's say I've been listening here for six hours now, I've also read the documents, what is actually the core of the interpretation against the minister. The core of interpolation is an anonymous application for an action that is supposed to happen in a, we'll say, non-transparent distribution of funds that are supposed to happen. Even your colleague in the opening presentation of your interpretation used the words "if it were to happen". The gentlemen who have proposed an anonymous application are not even in their pants to sign up for this, but we are discussing something that is supposed to be happening, something that we do not know what is going on, and some are obviously aware of what is going on, and of course we have been discussing it for six hours, and we will be burning it all the time. This is very effective, but Parliament is the place in which we are discussing. I would just like to be the basis for our discussions of arguments and counter-arguments, not the accusation of "whatever," "whatever is going on" and so on. Second thing, a very serious accusation – systemic corruption. Listen, these are so hard and so hard words that you have to have some proof that you can say it. It seems to me that this is unacceptable to insinuate, without any argument, that she was here, I will say, systemic corruption on the scene. On what grounds? What's here? An anonymous application again, of course. I will return to the very transparency of the invitation to tender. The invitation to tender, which was published, as we have already heard, was open to several candidates. The Commissions have been appointed, and the possibility of a complaint has been made, but as we know, this instrument has not been used. On the basis of what the procedures for the allocation of funds are, it should be noted that the control of the tender is multi-layered, from the analysis of the needs or justification of the call for proposals, within the Ministry, audits by other ministries, checks by the management authority, the first evaluation of the project, the project is subject to the supervision of the European Commission, the European Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. There were several stages of the possibility of verification, if anything was wrong, the possibility of taking advantage and objecting to procedural options in all these procedures. Second thing. The project involved 32 regular employees, 21 regular employees at the Faculty of Social Sciences and 11 regular employees at the Institute of Education. That's what you say. That's 32 love. In addition, 26 external contributors were involved in the work. On the basis of what can then be argued that the funds have been used in a non-transparent and clienteleistic manner for certain purposes. Third time. You say that the Minister or the current Dr., without the name of Minister, Dr. Pikalo, could be used to verify that there are indications that the gross amount of the project was actually part of his regular professor salary, which did not change at the time of the whole project. So, where are the encroachment and systemic corruption? The fact is, you repeat the same things over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. And I will believe the truth when the relevant authorities assess whether this was a criminal matter or not. Until then, based on insinuations, beliefs based on anonymous data that I don't know about, I'm not gonna believe that and I'm not gonna support that. And one more thing, I am sure that the Minister will know exactly what to do if there is a replica in the sense of his legal charge, unlike some who do not admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Srečko Meh, followed by Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Only Bevk, Mr Jože Tanko. Lord Happy Meh, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much. In fact, today it would not be necessary to talk about a topic that has neither a place nor an argument and is here because of the SDS manner that it will do everything and with all the means that it will work against proving that we have done badly, following the manner of their President. For all the interpretations, let me remind you that this week is the second one, we're going to have another one, and in all the interpolations, actually, the print is the same, SDS. All interpolations have the same fingerprint. Continuedly, we will use all means and speak in such a way that nothing can be proved. And I congratulate the home committee on having enough power and of course the will to say no, because we are not actually investigators, because we are in some way a political and legislative body and we should talk about arguments. This should be considered because it would be the same on the committee or even worse, and another 9 hours would be available where they could talk just like that, only to talk and to lead action and activity. That's why I don't think this interpolation really belongs in this room, but it's here. Let me say again what has already been said today. You've probably been told twice today that this interpellation against the current Prime Minister of the former government, Dr. Turk, has been filed. Now one more thing, Mr Shircelj has actually said the real cause of today's interpolation. He spoke of the symbols of the past regime, that they were symbols of a past regime that he did not and did not want to say what those symbols were. I will, of course, say again that my symbols are certainly our star today, our flag, our coat of arms and, of course, an anthem. The symbols of the previous system, in which we lived a great deal, were a star and under this star in the previous regime, ladies and gentlemen, we have experienced victory over fascism and Nazism, and we have also experienced independence in some way. And whoever doesn't respect it now as the past, where we have been the winners of those who wanted to trample human rights to the place, but this is the one that would be the one to intercede if, of course, it was possible to invest it on that basis. So once again, today our symbols are clearly clear, but most of you have been under those symbols that you say are gone today, and how some have sang and walked and said a lot of things that I may not even be. And once again, once again, something about public contracts, although Minister Pikalo made it very clear what is the difference between public procurement and public procurement, let me say it again. All those who speak so vehemently about what is corruption and what is not corruption, what is transparent and what is not transparent, and that you know that they have been agreed here in advance, tell us how this happened, report. What are you really doing? In fact, someone wrote an anonymous application. He also sent this anonymous application to the authorities investigating it, thus closing the case and saying that the application was filed. What would be the right way? Who's investigating what might be wrong with public procurement? Do we have an accounting court? What did the KPK say about this problem if anyone knows? Did KPK say anything about this problem? But she talked about corruption in general. And once again, I would very much like to reiterate that this was a fictitious invitation by Jozeta Tanka, who was discussing Jožet Tanka, where he was talking about nepotism, customerism, about everything that was going on here, and he was saying that this call was exactly what it was. However, this call, which was actually with European funds, was said to have been new jobs and they also said what the results were. Therefore, it seems to me that with these endless debates on interpellations, someone was also talking about those meetings around real estate taxes, so he was talking about the real estate tax. Who started the debate all day, all night until tomorrow morning, who triggered the debate? So, of course, there were a lot of these discussions. The tools through which we used interpretations should be a means by which we would have accused or accused the current Minister of what he did as Minister. Therefore, once again, what today is the content of the interpretation is the content of the interpretation against the former minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In this Chamber, of course, we are used in opposition benches, especially in the Slovenian Democratic Party, to the fact that every time we point out irregularities in the consumption of mainly budget money or taxpayers' money, we are, of course, criticized and always fly the obviouss of another government, the government of Janez Janša, and of course perhaps some of the work of our ministers. That's the way it is today. Instead of actually wanting Members and Members to get to the bottom of every matter, when it comes to, say, the notes, the correct or incorrect spending of taxpayers' money, including the one provided through public tenders. And what is the issue with this invitation to speak today? There's never anything wrong with the invitation itself. However, when we find that conditions and who can run for public funds are actually adapted to certain people or institutions, it is wrong. And so it was in this case, and it was in the case of the Complaints, even though some of you want to reject the obvious. And when you talk to the Social Democrats about having clean hands – we all have dirty hands, of course. It was also a project for Stožice, because the conditions were written in such a way that only those Stožica projects could run, no other project was able to run for that call because Mr Lukšič then organised this call specifically for this project. That's the way it is with this project. However, Minister, I do not know how many colleagues have been able to familiarize you with Dr. Žiga Turk's response, who responded to your findings when again in this initial implementation and responses, both to the views and to the very explanation of the interpretation, you return to the fact that someone else is actually guilty — in this case former Minister, Mr Turk. He said nicely that if anything that could be pointed out to him in this matter, it is that he did not really know that the project existed or that you completed the project in 2011. Which, somehow, any minister would expect, if this was such a good project as you are presenting to this Slovenian public today, I would somehow expect that at least the former minister, in which case it was Mr Lukšič, to warn the minister, look, we did it and that, this is a good thing, let us continue this project. But no, there was a eclipse here. And what does that indicate? There's actually a feeling here that there's something wrong with this project. And if there's anything wrong with this project, we need to get to the bottom of this. I would also like to draw attention here to what Mr Žiga Turk has pointed out, namely that the subject of civic education and ethics has already been renamed Minister of the Beast in 2007 into civic and domestic education and ethics. Of course, the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia updated its curriculum in 2008 and adopted it in June 2008. However, Minister Luksic later said that this had not happened, and the project he had called for was an old subject of civic education. And, of course, Mr Turk also points out that if you can already forgive that you have overlooked that the item was renamed in 2007 and not in 2012, of course it reminds you that in June 2013, you have renamed this item yourself. But when we talk about clienteleism, chronicism, nepotism, of course, it's part of systemic corruption. And, dear colleagues, look on the other hand, systemic corruption is extremely difficult to detect. It's extremely difficult. It is therefore appropriate to hold as many discussions as possible to draw attention to these matters. And when we talk about organized calls, when it comes to certain connections inside, either known party names or inside lobbyes, we need to be alerted about these things in these halls. However, the law enforcement authorities are those who will determine whether any crimes have been committed. And I also agree with the Minister that we cannot say here in this Chamber that he is already guilty. Of course not, but it is right to draw attention to things and to those who are in charge of this; and where we can talk about systemic corruption, of course, we also need to look at the Commission's reports on anti-corruption, and not least the last interview by the former President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in the Evening, where it answers what systemic corruption means. And part of systemic corruption is, of course, chronicism, nepotism. The one I'm not going to explain, the one who knows what that means, you're going to have to agree with that. And when it comes to family connections, when it comes to friendly relationships, it's also part of systemic corruption. I will, of course, support the interpretation, because I believe that the Minister has not answered the questions covered by this interpretation in his previous explanations. I hope that we have some more time in the future, he will respond. In particular, I would expect that, within the framework of the project that has been carried out, it will tell you exactly why the funds have been allocated, how much those who participated in the project have received, how much has the Minister received for project management or for expert opinions, especially whether this contribution, which is also part of this project, has been written before or is a completely new, professional contribution to this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. You have a procedural proposal for spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would ask you to observe further when the subject of interpolation spreads beyond or beyond what has been invested. And in this debate we have just heard things about another interpretation, the interpretation against Minister Igor Lukšić, which referred to the Stožice project. At the time that interpolation was not successful, Dr. Igor Lukšič was very comprehensive in explaining the things that were read in the interpolation, even those who signed the interpolation, and in the end not all voted in favour of the interpolation. So much for the circumstances. And now to the last inaccuracies, not to say maliciously, the invitation to the Contingents was judged by the Administrative Court and found no error. The Supreme Court has also spoken twice about him and has found no error. To have such reports come from the SDS makes sense to me, because they do not recognise the judicial branch of power, but for citizens and citizens it is, I hope, enough important information. What the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport had to do correctly, and three times it was found that there was nothing wrong with the invitation to tender. I would like to ask those who are discussing it to draw attention to this when there are such discussions. Thank you if you can achieve this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. It has been said several times today that we must, or so it is also right, be within the agenda item that we have today on the agenda, so that I call on all Members to stick to the framework of this point. Mrs. Ramshak, you have a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. I must point out that on Monday, the President of the National Assembly, when we received answers to parliamentary questions, said that it would also be possible to ask Minister Pikal questions outside the scope of the interpretation, so my content may have gone into one piece. I would warn, however, that the President of the Government and my predecessors, the debaters, including the Minister and Members and Members, have already gone beyond the scope of this interpretation. However, as for the Stožica project, if everything was so very good, why did the ministry have to return two million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. As once again, we stick to the agenda. Ms Alenka Jeraj, Mr Only Bevk and Mag will be discussed below. Matthew Tonin. Mrs. Jeraj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to reply first or say a few things in terms of what is said by other colleagues, Mr Smodiš and others, who are talking about the need for today's topic and the need for a discussion on the subject. It was unnecessary to discuss the real estate tax and the registration of real estate four days ago. We warned you at the time, you didn't want to hear this, and we've wasted a lot more time than we're going to do today, so I would suggest that you don't talk about it being unnecessary to talk about what's on the agenda today. I, too, was struck by Mr Pikal's position that he estimated that the project had been successful if we had recovered funds from the European Union. It's actually sad for me because the funds were blocked because the projects weren't prepared properly. And the already mentioned Stožice – The Municipality of Ljubljana had to pay back a million, almost 2 million euros. So the matter was not so clear and crystal clear and that is why our interpretation was also justified, because it referred to exactly what happened below, but the coalition did defend the then interpretation against Minister Luksic. I think that success and quality are not only if the funds are recovered from the European Union, but in fact all that you have committed yourself to in a contract or in an application for an invitation to take up active citizenship, organise dedication, network, etc., to a website that is not very much alive today, so that it is a number of things that indicate whether the project is successful or not. And with that kind of money, you should be very successful. That's half what we're gonna give for the referendum. I hope we're aware of the numbers we're talking about. So we, Dr. Jerne Pikalu, find suspicion of irregularities and corruption in participating in a 2009 civil education tender. I estimate that the invitation to tender has already been arranged or written in such a way that it will be written on the skin of the person who will apply. Otherwise, at that time, Minister Luksic would have taken into account the fact that several Members had already been reminded today, namely that Minister Zver had renamed civic education and ethics into civic and domestic education and ethics in 2007. Therefore, we would expect to see a call for citizenship and home education, because we have such an item, we set ourselves for the goals that we are supposed to achieve in primary school. That's why I estimate it's a problem. Minister Pikalo said earlier that he must commend Mr Lukšić's government for giving such an invitation. Of course, but he avoided one very important thing, that's patriotism. Why, even in your application or in all the information we could read from the media, he does not hear about patriotism or the spirit. But civic education and active citizens must first be patriots, then they are only active Europeans and everything else you talk about. In addition, information was circulated through the media that some of the ministries worked very hard not to have anyone else sign up. And even at the Faculty of Social Sciences, there was a silent agreement that no one else would sign up to succeed the group with Dr. Pikal at the head. All this information we have is raising doubts. I'm sorry. Even if they were intended, it must be very good, but difficult, for all the family ties and all the other information we have received, we overlook and say that it is a coincidence, even if we know that the former anti-corruption commission has been very actively aware of where the relationship is and who is related to whom. This is, in short, another case that the KPK overlooked, that she was not interested in friendship and family ties at this time in any other case. What we read to Minister Pical is that the article Cosmopolitan Democracy wrote and published before there was a call. We therefore estimate that this is how he got paid something that he should not have or that there is a suspicion of duplication of payments. There's a few other readings on the project. You're talking about an expert network of experts from different fields. Teachers and teachers of civic education and other civil education providers at all levels of the educational process are expected to be an important part. I have one analysis here that shows that very few people were attended by primary schools, secondary schools, high school kindergarteners. So I don't know who it was meant for. 33 from elementary schools at all the 7 dedications you've made. So if I look at some people from scientific research institutions, state institutions too, I assume that these employees at the Ministry, who go to such things, that they also have little control over everything together, some from non-governmental organizations, and some from primary schools among 33 all, i.e. Koper, Maribor, Novo mesto, Celje, Ljubljana, Kranj, secondary schools 11 people, and 11 from primary schools you have dedicated to teachers, from kindergartens 1 participants. Then, if we are talking about active participants from primary schools in all places: Koper, Maribor, Novo mesto, Celje, Ljubljana, from primary schools 21 people actively involved. From high school, 11 people. It's from kindergarten 1. So, if this is meant for young people and young people, there were more youth centers, and that was only in Celje, and there is no very high participation elsewhere. In short, I don't know where this network really is and where it really is useful for teachers who teach the subject of civic education or who you've given them. Now I have an analysis here that speaks of six or seven meetings. The minister's talking about 12 consecrations somewhere. So it's also not quite clear how many of them were actually there. I've already mentioned the teachers' materials. Even there, if I compare this website with one other website, which was done by a team led by Mojce Škrnjar in the framework of an association for the values of Slovenian patriotism.You made a team under the direction of Mojce Škrnjar, there things are also quite worked out by classes, also to whom it is intended, what is for kindergartens, what is for the first triad and so on. With these four documents, the four documents that are under the teacher’s material tab, we do not see what age period they are intended for. So I don't know, we can leave it to the teachers, but we probably agree that the difference is how you teach civic education in kindergarten or, for example, in ninth grade. I also mentioned the website, which there is no fresh information, and I found the last from October 2012. I think that the objective of the project is also that this site lives, that it was not only for the time it was coming, but that something will also happen to it, because you also have on the website written down that the website will transmit fresh information about the project in order to create the first civil education network and so on. I have already mentioned patriotism that is not there, and I am not reading it as much to you as I am to Mr Luksic, who has issued the call. And also to you, because I think that we should also talk about patriotism in the context of civic education, I have already told you why, at last we also have a school subject so famous and I think it would be in place. Now, perhaps if you allow me another one of these, although we are not supposed to go beyond the scope of interpretation, I think that this has started as Madam Prime Minister, so that you will probably allow us to look at something from a slightly wider perspective; another invitation was recently or is where the Faculty of Social Sciences succeeded again, namely, it will be an evaluation at the centre of excellence and competent centres. EUR 500 less than the quota required for the tender to be issued, i.e. 19 000 500. Some have already wondered how the evaluation will be carried out by sociologists, given that most of the competent centres or centres in the field of technical professions or sciences are competent. But apparently the FDV has some better references to succeed at such calls or in this case. Obviously, the FDV has no financial problems, we know that it's all in glass and quite shiny compared to any other colleges or art colleges that don't even have basics, we've listened to pianos before, and so on. We are saying that we will come out of the crisis with the help of the economy, so technical and natural sciences related to the economy, and we are treating them this stepmotherly. We have also witnessed a change in some of the titles of the objects last year, and I also consider this to be an irrational use of funds, because schools have squeezed certificates and so on. Once again, some resources will have to be made available, probably to destroy the old documents by commission, because of course someone can abuse them and so on. I estimate that this government behaves as if we have money to spare, and we all know we don't have it together. Now, allow me one more sentence regarding the book of Yugoslavia, my country. Minister, you said you haven't read it yet, and neither have I, because it doesn't attract me and it doesn't, I have to say how attractive it is to read it, and that's why I'm afraid the first-year students don't. But I am even more convinced that we would never borrow it from a library or buy it at a store under such an address. I'm sure it wouldn't convince them, maybe one of the parents who has nostalgia to Yugoslavia, but 16-year-olds I'm sure they don't. So it might be good to ask them how many of them read the book after they received it free of charge. And I would advise you, as I did to Minister Griltz last time, that active citizenship is also that our students, who are 18 years old and students, will go to the elections for the European elections and to the referendum on archives. Perhaps it would be appropriate to consider giving them the book of Roman Lejak Udob, free of charge, as they received the book Yugoslavia, this time my country, to learn about what we are talking about and why we have a referendum on the Law on Archives. For me, this is active citizenship and 18-year-olds, third and fourth years of high school, we need to raise them to be active citizens, to go to elections and referenda. And this is more than part of your project for which you've received funds. For all the above reasons, I will support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u128	What's it called? Gustav or August? How's it going over there? As far as family ties are concerned. I told you today, and I'm gonna say it again, but I didn't let my wife have any projects. That's one. Secondly, if you're already reading to me related links, you might be able to know how to confirm such projects at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and you might know if you don't meet all the criteria that include the purpose of spending and all the things that are involved, then of course you don't get the money back. And for 2011, the European Commission has already spoken for and confirmed the 2011 projects. By talking about systemic corruption – you are talking about the fact that the European Commission is obviously involved in systemic corruption, if I understand you correctly. Because given that she's confirmed the 2011 projects, these allegations are, I must say, a little strange, given that she's confirmed them as those that are systemicly fine. Second thing. No minister, this one or any other, confirms the names and names of the objects. This is done by the Professional Council for General Education of the Republic of Slovenia, not by the Minister. So it's not the Beast or anyone else named anyone. As far as centres of excellence are concerned, you need to understand that there are two different things that are not present in the public eye. One is the evaluation of centres of excellence, and the other is the evaluation of the instrument of centres of excellence, which is not the same thing. And we decided on an instrument to see if that instrument in 2008 had achieved its objectives. I think that for 120 million euros, as far as centres of excellence and competence are concerned, 19 000 500 euros is minimal to determine whether they have reached their goal. Whether we have achieved our purpose by spending 120 million euros in this society. And if you ever looked at who's doing this instrument evaluation, then you'd find that we've chosen the one that's doing it, just based on references. Look at the references and you'll find out. As far as Mr Lejak and his book are concerned, I understand correctly, because I am likely to be intertwined next time if we do not distribute this book to all the young people who are studying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Only Bevk is next in line with the statement. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The replica could be sooner, please, Mrs. Jeraj. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u130	At the beginning, I didn't fully understand you, but you said something about other related relationships before that Dr. Beast gave his wife a project, and I'm curious which project, because I'm hearing it for the first time, and as far as I know what it wasn't. But she did cooperate with Dr. Resident, who was a colleague of yours with the FDV or is still there, and at his invitation she did write a manual for teachers and also taught teachers for free. But for free, I emphasize, not like some others.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk. Would you like a word with the Minister? All right, Mr. Bevk, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Three-fifths of this week's work will be lost due to unnecessary meetings produced by the largest opposition group or party in the country. Two interpretations and one call for a referendum – very much for one week. Definitely too much. So we're in some kind of obsessive state, obviously. The common denominator of all these meetings, however, is the destabilisation of the Slovenian government coalition, at a time when we are facing the challenges facing the greatest economic and financial crisis since World War II. It's an interpolation that shouldn't be. Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport relating to an event of a time which has no connection with the Minister's work and responsibility, nor does the interpretation, to the extent or content, reach the minimum quality standards applicable to the title and the meaning of this political act. Nor can this be an interpretation against former Minister Igor Luksic, who has already undergone one interpolation, but speaks for himself of the fact that at that time the speaker convinced fewer Members and Members of Parliament in the debate than he invited them to cosign the interpolation at that time. Interpellation received only 23 votes and 31 were signed under this request. That is to say, seven of them saw their error, but we should get at least twice as many votes, that is 46 votes. So much for the interpretation and vote at the time. Interpellation is thus just another step in this political conflict, an attempt to destabilise the current government. After a good six-and-a-half hours of discussion, the applicants in my opinion have already come to realize that their project is completely flawed, and therefore, pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 252, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I propose an honorable withdrawal from the situation in which you are in, as this paragraph says, that the applicants may withdraw the interpretation until the end of the discussion on interpretation. I hope that the leader of the largest group in the opposition will take advantage of this business opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u134	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Today's interpolation, as Mr Bevk has already pointed out, should primarily be an interpolation against Mr Luksic. He's supposed to be sitting in that place, and he's the one we should be interpreting. You know the situation in the country is heated and if the opposition Member discusses something, he is very quickly accused of being a politician. For this reason, allow me to read the contribution of Director Dusan Merc, director of the Pruela Elementary School, who I think has hit the problem quite accurately today. In particular, he states that Dr Lukšič marked the publication of problems regarding the invitation to re-examine the subject of civic education and the anonymous complaint for the results of the invitation to tender as an attempt to remove the party leading it and which is at the top of the popular scales. First, we need to know that the former minister was very clearly deceiving himself because he likens himself to the party that leads him. He was personally informed that he had made it possible to obtain money illegally for others, not for the client. Furthermore, it is clear exactly who wrote the anonymity because he pretends not to know, to whisper to him, it is an envious individual or a group of people who wanted to participate in the ordinary robbery of the country and the budget, but who were not successful. The SD's first political party uses even more perverse logic when it interprets the evidence of money-sharing as an attack on a party. Among other things, I argue that the call is in the interest of the State to see the results online and so on, that several ministries have been involved. In fact, the €700 000 call for the renovation of the case is total and not just systemic corruption. It is true, however, that anonymous reporting of the very incompetence has been overturned, and they are disappointed that they have not received the money; they are indignant because they have not been involved in the country’s robbery. The fact is that the Ministry of Education, led by Dr. Igor Lukšić, has issued a call for professional and ideological nimble, which, according to its internal logic, is worth almost nothing or literally nothing. The call was launched in order to compensate the country and enable individuals to obtain a huge sum of money. That's the point of the problem. Whoever won the tender is just continuing the scheme, and more than clear money gets his brother, ministry, assistant and others around him collected at some institute within the FDV. The EUR 700 000 budget spent on salaries, allowances, nutrition, regress and transport is for 60 employees in primary school for seven months. This was written by Mr Dušan Merc, Director of Prule Elementary School.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc, Mr Matjaž Han, Mrs Mateja Pučnik and Mr Jožef Kavticnik will be discussed below. Please, Mr. Michael Prevc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! Six hours ago, perhaps slightly less, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I presented our position on the interpretation of Mr Jernej Pikal's education, education and sport. I must say that in those first introductory sentences, I have somehow said that we are not satisfied with the answer, with the response to the impressions of the interpretation given by the applicant. I made it clear that we have not received concrete answers, such as we expected, simple, simple, understandable. Instead, we have received an explanation from the Minister, which, of course, we cannot be satisfied with. See, in this response, the Minister has taught us for a long time and widely what interpretation is, how interpretation can be applied, this teaching is actually on half of this material. Then, of course, there are some other things about the incorrect qualification of the Penal Code, which he also taught us about as to how inappropriate the procedure for dealing with crimes is. And indeed, once again, I have gone through this answer and I must say that I am one of those concrete answers that all Members here have been expecting, given the obvious that the Minister is involved in controversial public calls where there is a suspicion of damage to public funds, and on this basis, I have then used the expression in my explanation of the position that this argument actually seems to me to be some sort of a seminar assignment. [[…]] If I've hurt anyone with this, Mr. Secretary, I apologize. As for the other part, you know, in the second part, we understood in the Slovenian People's Party that if we don't get the right answer to the obvious, then now is a unique opportunity to tackle the problems of education even more broadly. In this debate, I have drawn attention to some of the problems, including the fact that unfortunately today, the Minister is in this economic crisis increasing the study places in social science and neglecting and reducing the study places in the field of technical sciences and science. And then I went on to say that, unfortunately, the Minister does not understand the importance of development cooperation between the Slovenian economy and higher education to create higher added value and, above all, to create new jobs. Soon after, unfortunately, I wasn't in the hall at the time, the minister responded to my concerns like this, I think it's right to quote: "An invitation to enter that university, not the Ministry of Education. The way the call for entry is also a matter of first university and only secondary ministry, and only then of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it is inappropriate to accuse people of studying on unsuspecting programs because a political party has said so. If the university thinks that the programmes are perspective, then I think it is appropriate that we leave them this autonomy and leave them this future, I will say, because no one knows which programmes will be forward-looking in the future." Dear Minister, I'm a little freaked out here. And I can say that with this paragraph you have somehow presented the entire misery of our educational system, which follows the needs of the faculty and their professors instead of the problems of the economy, instead of the needs of employers. You even defend such a system. You know, you don't have to look at any bullets, like you told me then, Mr. Minister, to know which programs are unopposable and which ones are promising. Take a look around, Mr. Minister, only species at the Employment Institute, and you will see which programs are unsuspecting and which should be clipped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you very much. However, a few clarifications need to be made to Mr Prevc. You know, so far, only one government has intervened in this way, as you suggest. But the case ended in court and the government lost. From here on, however, it is a matter of regulation as to how this is regulated in this country. This is the responsibility of this House. There's no way I'm following the needs of college away from it. I think it's a shame that you don't have an insight into my everyday activity when we meet with the Engineering Chamber when we meet with various actors in this area. To talk about not being obedient or following only the needs of the university is, of course, a very reductionist view of the whole matter. But remember something else, one of the basic things when you report a program, the higher education program at the National Quality Agency in higher education is, of course, a section where you have to prove cooperation either with the economy or with non-economic problems. Without that, the National Agency for Quality in Higher Education, under the direction of the Headline, does not light up the route, your program is not accredited. It is very thoughtful to talk about how cooperation with the economy and the economy is. Each programme, irrespective of whether it is social or technical, a natural medical programme of any kind, must complete the same section, and of course the evaluators of NAKVIS in the field also identify it. They're having a conversation with potential users who are going to hire these people. I'm very sorry if I may have been sharp before, but you know, because I know the details of the system, I think such qualifications are a little flat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Han, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister with a team, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! I don't know if it'd be worth talking about today or not, but I do remember one call that you'll probably recognize in the SDS. "We will use all political means," you understand – all political means. And that's actually what's happening right now. But what's interesting is that this is what Mr. Janez Janša said. Therefore, respectable, there are interpretations by content and there are also interpretations that are only by address. Interpellation, today's, work and responsibility of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikal, is one of those who belong to this other group, namely those who are only and only by title. From it, it can be understood that interpolation with the proposers is embarrassing, which the Minister or the Minister may also interpret. In fact, the right candidates are slowly running out. The table of contents, however, is very low with this interpolation. So tomorrow they can somehow follow the interpretation of the work of responsibility not only for each ministerial team, but for every citizen who has not hit the Slovenian Democratic Party. The contents of this interpolation indicate that the applicant also tests the strength of the coalition majority in the National Assembly on a weekly basis in view of the inflation of the interpolations. And I said three days ago, ladies and gentlemen, champagne will have to be closed, this government coalition will hold. In this case, at least in today's case, the institution's grading, such as interpolation, is unwittingly carried out. And, finally, respected, as a result, it also reduces standard political and if you want legal cultures. And that's not good for the National Assembly. One of the more popular lawyers wrote critically years ago about overinvestment and requests for the establishment of parliamentary investigative commissions. He said something like this: "In a balanced social situation, it can be expected that the public will be more indifferent with any new interpolation or investigative committee, or that it would be obvious only for so-called political games, which are already extremely negative. But in the general social crisis and in a state of expression, it is also the pathological politicisation of Slovenian society that any such offering of games is very successful. Although it is accompanied by a daily drop in the offer of bread." This was said by a famous Slovenian lawyer. It is obvious that today we will not deal with the interpretation of Jerne Pikal, but rather with the interpretation of the entire government. This is the only way to rationally clarify the matter. For it will not pass, beloved, that without any matter the government or Alenka Bratusek may not be called upon to withdraw. It will not even be a regular session that we do not have interpretations, requests for referendums, constitutional accusations and could list them at least one session. Working bodies in the National Assembly are, thanks to the SDS, all thanks to the SDS, slowly, but reliably transform into public tribunals of interrogations and persecutions calling for the lustration of all and anyone who is unwilling or dared to challenge such policies and methods of SDS. However, if I concentrate back on this interpretation, the work of Minister Jerne Pikal is trying to defuse himself with the invitation to tender in advance, respected, for five years, whose value was somewhat more than a million 300,000 euros, that is a lot of money, I agree. In the past days, we have heard an assessment by SDS representatives of how much a million EUR 300,000 would cost to carry out the archive referendum if it were carried out together with the European elections. The President of the party of the Slovenian Democratic Party said that the joint implementation of both votes would significantly reduce the costs or almost no costs, and so said the first under this referendum, Mrs Eva Irgl. According to her, a million 300,000 euros is nothing or practically nothing. Interestingly, when it comes to some sort of ideological joy of SDS that we have to pay the taxpayers, the amount is negligible, but when it comes to writing the interpolation pamphlet quickly, only an anonymous application of a 5 year old invitation to tender is sufficient, and this about the tender in which the value was, following the evaluation of the SDS, is virtually nothing. I must say that I will refuse this interpretation, that today I was extremely pleased when I listened at the beginning of Dr Jerne Pikal, that in some way with arguments, with my knowledge, with my experience, I rejected everything that was written in this interpretation and finally let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats we will reject this interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mateya Pučnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! It is true that there is more than 6 hours of debate behind us and I still believe that this interpretation is not wrong and that we have a clear right to interpretation as an opposition party, both by the rules of procedure and by the very part of the National Assembly. I am convinced that both the proposer and the signatories to this interpretation have given a lot of reasons why we still believe that Dr Pikale's work in the past has been controversial and that this call has also lost confidence and respect and integrity as a minister. We have very clearly explained which suspicions and questions remain open in this alleged disputed call, in this call, where Dr Lukšič, former Minister, as current Minister Dr Pikalo, participated. And it is true that there is doubt as to whether it was corruption or nepotism, whether the invitation was actually arranged for an individual university, whether it is disputed that Mr Lukšič, through this call, has allowed a great deal of financial benefit to his immediate family members, friends and party colleagues, and it is true that they should deal with it and have the law enforcement authorities investigate the matter. I hope that the Commission will also take up this alleged challenge to prevent corruption, even though I fear that, after all this fiasco, we cannot expect any serious work from the leadership of the anti-corruption commission, in the future or at least in the future, and I am sorry for that. And I would also like to replicate to Mr Kurnjek, who had previously read one part of the magnetogram when he read that I spoke in the position of the Group of Members, that we do not want to be prosecutors or judges in the Group of Members. I still insist on this and would also like Mr Kurnjek to read to the end what I have said below. Because then I say, "But surely the National Assembly and the National Education Assembly's home committee is a place where we can and where we need to discuss everything related to education and education and the use of public money." And it is true that I recall that procedural proposal that Mr Kurnjek made on the Committee on Education, and I have also given you the same answer at the time that I agree that we are not any commission or judges or prosecutors here, but that we must discuss certain matters. And this debate has been prevented from happening since the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Commission or the opinion of the law enforcement authorities for some of the facts in this interpretation. The first fact is – and it comes from the application documentation of both projects, both the Faculty of Social Sciences and the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts – that a huge sum of money was spent, i.e. more than a million euros for salaries, awards and business contracts, in a very narrow circle of people around Dr. Lukšič and Dr. Pikala. You can't deny it, and I can't deny it better, I'm sorry, I can't say it or any other way. And I am appalled that a million euros can be divided into a handful of people so easily in the field of education and education. And the Minister has already talked today about financial problems that have been accompanying education and education for years. And I am pleased that both of us have agreed here with the Minister that, since the major economic crisis in Slovenia, major financial problems have also spread to the public sector in the area of education and education. And that is why I would expect the Minister to be able to handle public funds rationally, even in 2010 and 2011. I remember very well at the end of 2010, when I was not yet a Member, when we were running out of funds at our primary school for a month, we had trouble getting money for chicken, we were running out of paper, we couldn't even copy. And those who wanted the educational process to continue smoothly, we had to carry the paper to school ourselves so that we could copy tests, check knowledge, strengthen and so on. And that's what we want to warn you about. And I also remember two years ago, when we jointly raised €23,000 for the subsidised diet of our primary and secondary school children. And I recall the adoption of last year's rebalancing when I reminded the Minister that there are some schools, especially secondary schools, whose funding is linked to the number of places of entry, that they do not even have electricity and water. And also Mr Minister will probably remember that this was one school, I think the secondary vocational and professional school in Kočev. So, on the one hand, we say that there is no money in the field of education and on the other hand, we see that it is easy to pay huge amounts for projects that bring mainly theoretical work. I don't just look at this amount, I look at these divided amounts as an MP, I look at it as a teacher. Our teachers have about a thousand 200, a thousand 300 euros to pay, some even less. And I'll tell you, he's not in the primary or secondary school of a project where a teacher could make a thousand euros, but only a few 10,000 euros. There's no project. Our teachers also run national projects such as Eco school, UNESCO school, e-school, health school, also write professional contributions and articles in scientific journals, without getting paid a cent. So that I'm not misunderstood, I'm not saying that anyone has to do it for free. It is clear to me that in the field of research work too, people who add added value in terms of education need to be paid. Don't get me wrong. However, our teachers also have to pay for certain seminars, which are always out of work on Friday afternoons and Saturdays, and for this they get points for progress. Points for progress to pay grade, or points for progress into titles that we know to be in the last five years, can be fixed by someone, I don't know exactly, but I'm sure they've been frozen for the last five years. So those points can be our professors, I don't know, stuck behind their ears. Allow me to make a comparison of the website already discussed by my colleague Jerajev, the interactive website of Domolibje in the school, which was created under the auspices of the Association for the Values of Slovenia's Independence. I invite you to look at this website and judge for yourself. The website offers a wide range of content, articles, songs, films related to the history of Slovenia, examples of good practices, how to include patriotism in every wedding of life at school, and an interactive map of the development of Slovenian independence and could also list. And why am I saying this? Since this project came at a minimum cost, a thousand 500 hours of volunteer work, as far as we know, had to be paid only for the Internet domain and computer program, which amounted to less than EUR 2 000. Less than 2,000 euros. And many of us today, you have already discussed and discussed the fact that native education or patriotism in this project is completely neglected and that the website of the National Education which was created in the framework of the project is then very soon dead and we cannot get rid of the feeling that it was only created and only because of the project. Today, the minister said that he too felt that patriotism in our schools was too low. I am very pleased that the Minister has come to this realization because I have already addressed this question in the autumn months, which relates to home-schooling and patriotism in our primary and secondary schools, where I have somehow relied on the results of the 2008 survey, when thousands of 653 primary and secondary school children were included in the survey and research, say students and students, and 113 history teachers. This study examined and analysed the knowledge of the period of origin of our country of Slovenia, which is, of course, very closely linked to education for patriotism. I was already concerned about these results because 50% of the children questioned did not know how the 1990 elections were different from the previous ones. 62% of students did not know what the role of plebiscite was, and 30% of students knew nothing about plebiscite. 35% of the children questioned were not heard of the Majni Declaration. And what's even more worrying is the sovereignty of teachers and history teachers who teach these contents, and it seems problematic to me that only 7.7% of teachers are completely sovereign in the professional knowledge of the content of self-sustainment, while 77% remain cautious and qualified to do so, and 15% of those surveyed judge for lack of knowledge. So I remind again of these problems and also appeal to the Minister that he will still have a lot of work to do in this work, especially in the area of patriotism, and that simply renaming objects, unfortunately, will not be enough. And also the term or designation that skips the term of education and introduces culture instead of the term, seems to me just a step back. Many of you mentioned an anonymous complaint today, anonymously, and I also have to replicate here to the distinguished minister, who in one of his discussions, where he mentioned me, said that I read or quoted from the complaint or the anonymity. I have to say that's absolutely not true. That none of us, at least I haven't seen this complaint, or the anonymity, is true that I haven't read it. Everything we have mentioned, even what I myself have stated in the position of the Group of Members, I have summarized from the media. Only from the media. But it is true that he is in this anonymity, and in this context I have mentioned her only once in my position, speaking and writing to Dr Merc, but Mr Tonin has previously read this section on an anonymous complaint, so that I would not read it again. We have summarized everything exclusively from the media, and also Mr Merc's public letter in Del is a public medium. But I'll say so. It does not matter to me whether the person alerting to an irregularity signs a declaration or is not signed, whether it is signed or anonymous. Because the reasons for anonymity can be very different. I admit, however, that I agree with the Director's statement, according to Mr Merc, whose public letter I have already mentioned, where he says that addicts and indignant people have been anonymously printed, but they have not been able to participate in this ordinary robbery of the country. And many of you today have also said and argued several times in the debates that this has happened in 2009 and that this has nothing to do with the current work of the Minister. And I say the opposite, and I have also said this in the position of the Group of Members. His involvement in this alleged disputed call, where more than one million euros were so easily distributed, is now suspected of all the calls and projects that Dr. Pikalo is signing as Minister. And I have here before me a table, a table of amounts and projects that have been allocated under calls and projects in this last year of the Faculty of Social Sciences. And these calls are for almost 600 grand. I am not saying anything that has been wrong, but there is suspicion and I can rightly wonder whether these amounts have been transparently distributed, whether they have been fairly distributed, whether other universities are entitled to such high amounts and so on. So I still think all the past actions of a man build some trust. The Minister has lost confidence at least when he has participated in such contentious behaviours with our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you, Madam Vice President. For the sake of clarification, honourable Mrs Puchnikova, now in this good year you have probably come to know me so much that you know that in my work I have never had any intention of deceiving anyone or taking the contents out of context. However, what you said today and what I said last time on the committee on the same subject, which is what I mentioned today, I then referred to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which decided on a very similar case. And what you said later today, and you told me that I didn't quote you, then it had nothing to do with it. That's why I didn't quote you or quote your entire speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The following will be given the floor, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik, and then the Minister and then the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I listened attentively today to all those who are signed under this interpolation and to others who do not support it. Thank you, Mrs Matei, for telling us so well what all the professionals at school are doing. Indeed, much of this is done in high schools, universities, and so on. All honor to all those who sometimes do not get paid for a lot of work. What was wrong with the invitation to tender is what the investigation will say. I'm sure we can't talk about this here to the politicians. However, the professional value of the project product can only be assessed by an expert and I am sure that we cannot do so here in Parliament. It is interesting what Mr Tonin said: "Interpellation should be primarily against former Minister Igor Luksic." Because that's not possible, it's the first one to come in right to interpel it, Dr. Jerney Pikalo. You've got bad luck, but it looks like it's lucky we're not here among the cops today and whoever did some wrong and didn't get it would be punished first. I could have gotten out of this somehow. Look, you've also read Director Dusan Merc's essay. Why do I say an essay? Because Principal Dušan Merc is also a writer. And the essay, we know what it's like, it's a literary work that was created on the basis of some things that just happen, and then add something to make it a little bit more readable. And that's what Merc's colleague has proven many times that he's a master at writing like that. Today, it has already been said that the coalition has already decided in advance how it will vote. Yes, of course, because we have read the purpose of interpolation and also the answers. When you read it and put it together, you see it's really nonsense and the interpolation doesn't last. This interpretation, Your Honor, does not hold. And it will be a difficult path from the crisis if we have such and similar discussions in the National Assembly. There's too many of them, too many of them. Look, the interpolation is written on the basis of non-transparent procedure, clientistic connections, spending money and so on. But someone wrote it in anonymous, and now the police, the investigators, have to prove it. It's not known now whether it's untransparent, whether it's clientistic, whether it's really over-expenditure money and so on. So we don't know anything about it. And the interpolation is here. Let's wait for the outcome then, and I'm sure if all this proves, there won't be any need for interpretation, no need. Just not the Minister's interpretation, because the Minister was not present when the invitation to tender was issued, he did not decide and did not have a hand in it. We're interpolating an ex-worker, a researcher at the university who, along with his colleagues, did some research. What the minister said is that we interpolate researchers, and that can be a startling concern. The current minister was not a minister at the time and had nothing to do with the invitation to tender, the procedure and the choice. He had nothing to do with the level of the appropriations for the call for proposals. The fact that he's a researcher can be questionable. The question is also how do the interpellations proposers even know that any irregularities have been made in the invitation to tender. You know what I read, Mr. Jerovšek, in the paper? I've read a lot of things. And a lot of untruths or conjectures. But we can't talk about the allegations here. At least I don't think so. Now that you have not given anything so that I can decide and decide more easily on what I would do with today's interpolation, I have made one criterion: Is the Minister a professional – is he; is the Minister a working minister; is he an honest minister; he has the same criteria for himself, even higher than others — yes; he is critical — yes; he is prepared to participate — yes, he has proved this today, he has proved this many times on committees and when he was preparing any law. Last but not least, the law, which is now somewhere in the debate, the Higher Education Act, has retained, retained and talked with both trade unions and professionals, as well as with all those interested in it. It is cultural — it is, it has proved today; it works thoughtfully — yes; it is exclusive — no; it is interconnected — yes. Since I've read it, I can't because you know, what you read to him is, I'd say, it's nothing from the inside but it's hollow. [[…]] And I can't build on that, but when I read it like that, it's 10:0 for the minister. Minister, you've scored a lot of goals. I'm not going to support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Kavtičnik has been in the position of the Member of Parliament before, but now he has climbed even more. Totally. And came into contradiction with himself and with his decisions which he publicly proclaims. Actually, I'm going to quote Dr. Merc here again, whose minister doesn't comment and responds, but we know there's a person in school. He says, "The Ministry has issued a call to harm the country and enable individuals to obtain a huge sum of money" and so on, this article has been read by all of us. But that means nothing to Mr. Cavticnik. Nothing. At the same time, he said yesterday that he would support the interpolation against Virant, but now it would look like I was defending Virant, but Virant was not a minister when he was supposed to get plane tickets cheap. Now he says about what happened five years ago, but he's not morally responsible. So that a man, a fellow Member, would climb up and speak so differently in two completely identical things and make such a different decision, is amazing to me. Be consistent, be principled. In both cases, it is a matter of problematic matters and support both interpretations. If you're principled, that's what you'll do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Here you go. You've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u150	Yeah, it's procedural. Look, what I'm asking you to do is berate my colleague Jerovšek for using the replica and replicating it into something that's totally lame. [[…]] I just said that Mr Merc is an author and this is an essay and you can't judge the essay as a critical judgment. As for Mr Virant, I will go to him on the same criteria and see how I can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have now also clarified Mr Jerovsk's replica. I'm also giving the floor to the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I must say that after about six, seven hours of discussion, I still find out and remain in the debate where we started. I am intertwined today as a researcher, as a higher education teacher, which is new and unique, not only in Slovenia, but also in international practice. I hope that someone who will write an article on this will likely find it interesting to read. The debate has shown that this is a political debate, which is actually intended for interpretation. It was certainly not a professional debate, so what we juggled about was somehow not achieved. I must say that together in this House we share the concern for the future education of new generations, including for patriots, and therefore I think it is right that projects, that education is for teachers, that they are continuous professional additions, that everything that is rich is not only our school system, but also then society. And that's what I think we all have to do. There are 450 principals in Slovenian primary schools. We have heard one’s opinion today, perhaps others will have a different opinion. As for this, I will just say political pressure on the Faculty of Social Sciences, I can say that it is completely unjustifiable. At the Faculty of Social Sciences, unlike other colleges, we are plural. I think we will agree with Mr Jerovsk that a colleague of mine had a different opinion on patriotism than I do or my colleague, Ljubica Jelusic, who also worked in college and someone else. We're plural. And that's the way it is. And on the tenders that have been and which have been widely reported today, the Faculty of Social Sciences never applies, but, of course, the University of Ljubljana. The University of Ljubljana has 26 members. If we're talking about just one university, of course, all those with references can apply, that I'm not talking about other universities at all. As for the very professional value of the project that you have given me here today politically, let us leave it to those who are qualified to do so. 6 books, 7 even, 31 articles, 7 research reports, 4 materials for teachers, 12 professional or scientific meetings, established expert network with NGOs, membership in an international civil education organisation, an international conference and so on. I think it's a small part of everything we've done in this project every day, since 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 8. 2011. And all I'm talking about is my, my, my, my part of the project. Not for the project that was on the ZRC SAZU, because let someone else talk about it professionally, not me, from this political point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, you wanted something. Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, in fact, I am pleased that you are communicating, that we are communicating, but of course, at the same time, I see a changed view of the same thing from the performance to the performance. I must say that with regard to the fact that I had previously stated the position, of course, written by Dr Micheljak of the Faculty of Social Sciences, when he criticized the then President of the Republic when he spoke of the need for patriotism and called it pre-modern, defiance-worthy emphasis, you had previously identified yourself as really funny. That's funny. Clearly, in some way, you disagreed with Dr. Michaelak. Now you've changed your mind. Now you're talking about plurality, not that it's funny. And now you've turned it loose. Of course it's plural, but have a clear position. Or is denial of patriotism, you said earlier that it is always modern to speak, always modern and that it is to say that it is pre-modern, funny. Now you're talking about plurality. You're relativizing. And on the basis of this relativization, those in this country are being attacked who advocate some values in this area, which advocate that there is patriotic education and patriotism in school, that they are being trained. Now, on the basis of your latest statement, it seems that some teachers in higher and secondary schools and those institutions can say on average that it is premodern, that it is worthless, that it is outdated, old-fashioned and so on. I would like him to have a clear position. Is it like he said before that it's funny that patriotism is modern, or is it plurality that can make you smile all you want? It is a practice for anyone in this House to speak positively about patriotism, whether Mrs Ljubica Jelusic is in the role of minister or I, to insist that children know, let's say, what happened in 1941, what the Slovenians were plagued with – and this was the last time a hallo, it must not be talked about, you must not take a patriotic stand, you must not advocate that such practices should not be repeated today under the cover of some new forms. And Mr. Minister, the more you perform, the less I know why you're defending yourself. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u155	Replica, three minutes, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u156	That's what I have to tell you. [[…]] I don't know why you're defending yourself. And as I warned the Member earlier that he has a two-faced position in one case and another, so I know less from word to word what you really stand for. And I think it's a higher education facility like the FDV. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u157	The end of the replica, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u158	it must also have some clear definitions. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the interpretation we have put in has, in fact, remained intact in those fundamental points. The Minister has not rejected a single word of the record, the contents of the transcript in the interpretation. When we talk about the obvious, the call for domestic or civil education, as regards the amounts as regards the participating, both politically and jointly involved in this project and its role in this project. With not a single word, the claim in the interpolation was rejected. However, we have heard many statements by the Minister, which speak of the merits of interpretation, which discusses the procedural problems of interpolation. But these things, as regards the procedure for handling interpretation in the National Assembly, are the responsibility of someone in the National Assembly, and this is the President of the National Assembly, who also comes from a party of Social Democrats. He's the one who gave the interpolation to the minister and the ministry. He is the one who received the answer and also placed the point on the agenda. And with regard to this procedural problem, I think the conditions regarding the submission of interpolation have been met. However, the problem is that there was neither in the written reply of the Ministry nor in the government which came to know it nor today in the Minister's reply, in fact, any claim. This is worth 1.4 million, of which a large majority of the million was 150 000 euros allocated for salaries, fees and business contracts. No one denied this information, not even the minister. As regards the claim of systemic corruption in this project, allow me to read to you the introductory provision or introductory part of the Commission's 2010 annual report on anti-corruption. That is where the anti-corruption commission defined what systemic, organisational or institutional corruption is. " This is any achievement or creation of normative institutional, status or procedural conditions or circumstances, in order to enable or benefit officials and other natural or legal persons to the detriment of public funds. This is any other form of exploitation of normative institutional status or procedural powers, weaknesses, non-consistency or non-conformity, including non-compliance or non-response to official findings and calls by competent supervisory authorities. And systemic corruption is also any repeated or permanent abandonment of the use of supervisory and self-regulatory procedures and measures, in order to allow or benefit for themselves or for other persons to the detriment of public funds or public interest." So we're talking exactly about how the conditions for these things were created. As regards the Commission's further explanation for preventing corruption, it also speaks of the systemic exploitation of such circumstances. And before that, we talked about the case where the current minister issued a call in a similar manner to that made in the mandate, where he was the leader of this project we are talking about, according to the fund-raising laboratory. In this case, too, it was already about pre-allocated quotas, the allocation of a few million euros for certain projects or some universities. We are talking about the fact that things regarding corruption are systematically predetermined and then it is just a matter of formal procedural procedures, that these procedures are being implemented and that there are precisely situations where, in fact, they lead to that it is only possible and nothing else. With regard to the budget and the use of budgetary resources, it is unlikely that it can be in the public interest, in such a delegated manner, to share public funds for individual projects through delegated calls. All those who were researchers who applied for projects, either as mayors or as entrepreneurs or otherwise, know that such conditions should not be created in procedures. In the project we're talking about, that's exactly what happened. And it was obvious that this part included a political branch, a political group called the Social Democrats, and that family members, including the project leader, were also richly rewarded for participating in this project. Participation in this project meant more than the annual salary of a university professor, more than an annual salary. And these aren't small funds. This way of working, according to the KPK – The Commission to prevent corruption leads to grave infringements of the fundamental principles of the rule of law and the social state. We don't need you to delegate the distribution of public funds from the budget, no more laws, no more need for anything and put certain groups of people in a privileged position, and permanently. Unfortunately, in this coalition, which runs this government, this part of the mandate happens systematically. Many cases have been identified, but obviously for the sake of peace, in order for the coalition to remain, as colleague Han said, until the end of the term of office, this needs to be overlooked, this needs to be confirmed and looked forward to the end of the term of office.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u161	A little peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u162	I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Mr Stanko Stepišnik resigned a few months ago because of the allocation of substantially smaller funds, approximately 7 times less than the amount received by this project we are talking about. It was a project for new jobs, it was a technological project and so on and Mr Stanko Stepišnik resigned as Minister. However, all other ministers in such situations remain in their positions, and Mr Pikalo will obviously remain because he is too important a member in the fight against corruption or in the apparent fight against corruption. However, Mr Virant will obviously remain, because he also has a heavy burden there, Mr Omerzel remains involved in or has participated in a contractual relationship with a company that was directly superior to him as a departmental minister and so on. In short, apparently the priorities of this government coalition are quite different than they should be. It is mainly for the operation of personal interests and to remain at the head of the government as long as possible so that these policies are implemented in a similar way. In these debates, we are the main problem both with the Minister, the Government, the coalition Members we have opened up the subject, not the one that caused the situation, but the ones we have proposed to discuss and also talk about the responsibility of the Minister for this situation. It's kind of very perverse. If this coalition, while boasting in the fight against corruption, boasts that it will intensify the fight against corruption, supports precisely the diametrically opposite personal solutions or keeps them alive, in positions, then we cannot talk about any fight against corruption. That's impossible. Because you do something completely different, quite the opposite of what you say. And what's been said here, you're obviously accusing us of trying to overthrow the government in every way. Gentlemen, it's not working! Fall down on your own, fall from the inside! For three months you've been looking for the Minister of Economy, for the fourth month you've been looking for the Minister of Health, for those who are suspected of unethical conduct, corruption, life-sustaining, practically creating all the conditions for the coalition not to act well and effectively. Earlier, one of the Members noted that we will spend three-fifths of our time on the items the SDS has placed on the agenda this week. None of these things would have happened if they had been resolved in the coalition before, gentlemen. We would not discuss interpolation against Mr Pikal, not on Friday, nor on the interpretation against Mr Virant, nor tomorrow, on the Order for the Call for a Referendum. These are the points of this meeting that have been listed solely because the coalition of these things is unable to clear itself. Also, discussions on property tax and the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate would not be held at this meeting of the National Assembly if the coalition used common sense. If you were using common sense. But despite your warnings, you've moved on, and now you're in some kind of weird mess when these things have to be solved. I think it is also important to ask what the interest is that the coalition insists on these solutions that are not good. It's a big problem. Interpellation is also the solution. And the Minister is an integral part of this coalition's problem, not the solution to this coalition. What is happening with public funds, including in the field of education, including in other areas, is a problem of all policies in this country. If these matters are not carried out in a transparent manner, if there is no control over them, if their party Februaryes and their family members belong to them, then we cannot talk about some rational use of public funds. There are also other projects, similar to or even bigger, but if such a banal, marginal project cannot be solved like this, then you will not do great things. Absolutely not. And with regard to interpolation, unfortunately, on behalf of the applicant, I find that the remaining records we have provided in the interpolation are intact at all points. At all points. No one denied the amounts, no one denied the political ties, no one denied the links and no one denied who participated in the projects after the second wage. Nobody. Dear colleagues in the coalition, I suggest you consider making a different decision on the matter than you said in the debates. And that those words, the great words of the fight against corruption, become flesh to become an act. It's totally inappropriate for me to look here and look at the misleading faces when you say one thing when you're doing the other. And if, despite all these perceptions, which were not rejected by a single word, with no debate, if it remains as you said, then we have lost the fight against corruption, we have lost the fight for the rule of law and a just state, and we have also lost the fight for the social state. Because privileged groups have no relation, not to one, not to the other, not to the third, but only to their own benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I note that all the debaters who wanted to do so also got the floor. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss the matter further under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'm going to open up a debate, and I'm going to warn you that there's only one round. All those of you who wish to discuss are requested to apply. Check-in is on. There are 11 more speakers who have been reported, and among them is Mr Minister, who has already applied for the floor. Each one has five minutes. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik was first reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Look, there's been a lot of talk today about patriotism. I have to say here from this town that we're going to be 8. 4. have a theme of patriotism on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth and together with the Committee on Culture. You are invited to all those Members and Members of Parliament who really love this country and who would like to speak and also hear about patriotism. But when we talk about patriotism, of course it starts at home, in the family. Don't point your finger right at school, at the educational process, and so on. Domesticism begins at home, continues in the educational process and, of course, in the environment in which children, adults, live. Today, a little earlier, my colleague Tanko said that they did not deny any family ties, because I can't imagine how someone could deny family ties. I would never do that, and I don't. But if I'm related to someone, I'm not yet unjust, I'm not customeristic. I will tell you honestly that to my child, that I wish my children all the best. And I will do anything to make them do in this world, in this life, all good. And that's why I've never convicted, and I'm not going to condemn any parent who wants everything for their child, for the best and for the best. Nor was the amount of the resources allocated to this project denied. Of course not, for no one said that the money did not go so high for these purposes. However, they denied it and it was often heard that anything would be wrong to distribute this money, with the criteria for those who participated in this project. This must be proved and this will have to be demonstrated whether they have been justified or unjustifiable. And especially those who say that these funds were unjustifiable will, of course, have to prove it. That is why I still believe that this interpretation is inappropriate, unnecessary, that we were talking here about education, which is good, but everything else was not necessary. That's why, of course, I won't support this interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Say good-bye again! So, as a matter of fact, the arguments here just don't come true. There are always one and the same charges on the basis of, I'll say, some insinuations from an anonymous report. I have already said that the money spent on this project was practically distributed among the three institutions, and most of the money for the fees you spoke about went, of course, for salaries, copyright contracts and so on. However, those people who are regularly employed in the process, and these are more than 30, that is to say, among the 30 regular employed people, most of this money has been distributed, for their salaries. None of them received a euro more than they would have received. But they got the project. You're saying that it's clientelism, yes, I really can't help it if we have people at certain points of content at a certain function who are also possibly related. It doesn't matter. It is to the point that, Mr Science, that he is perfectly in control of his field, that he has excellent international references, and it is clear in the wake of this that because he is a relative of someone else, he should be evicted. I have never seen such a condition exist, that based on the fact that someone is related, we rule out if he has all the professional references that he can participate in the entire story. And the fact that the Minister has already warned you that on this basis great proposals have been made for changes in curricula, expert advice and dedication and so on. In short, money has been spent on something that can also be materially demonstrated that we are not talking about how many professional articles have been prepared in this way. Of course, it is subjective perception of how someone imagines the content that has been the subject of this call. However, the fact is that they followed those conditions that were also foreseen by the international call for proposals or those for which funds were allocated from the IP. And finally, we're talking about how the funds were made at a time when the minister was someone else, while the person we're interpolating today was at that time exclusively and only a researcher. In short, we mix apples and pears. And once again, as I said, if any of what you've done is clearly proven, I am confident that the Minister will respond appropriately to demonstrate his integrity. But this, of course, must be proved through material evidence in some process and then also advocated. By the way, the procedure was transparent, and there were possibilities for a complaint. However, if ladies and ladies who have failed in the invitation to tender do not hope to sign up or sign up under an anonymous application, but at the same time they have not complained about the procedure itself, then I am very sorry about the state of the spirit in our country. I'm not going to support the interpolation. But I will say this, not because I think that the Minister of Education is a good minister, that he is behind the values and objectives of the Social Democrats: a quality, public, accessible education for all in a way that we will also be able to exploit the Slovenians as one of the greatest comparative advantages we have in this small country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. We do live in a strange country. I mean, everything's possible with us, but it's okay. A young country is this, and we have no centuries-old tradition. Maybe we'll get drunk sometime, but then we'll be gone. On the basis of an anonymous one, and this one is published in the newspaper, we have been doing this kind of circus for so many hours now, and we've been spending taxpayer money. It's a raccoon in Europe. Nowhere can this happen except for us, because we have such a quality opposition that masters all these games. I can't believe they don't write their own anonymous notes, then do what they set out to do. This is to make use of all political means, only that the state does not function as it should, or that ministers sit here, waste their time. I am surprised that Mr Tanko has not yet mentioned why today the President of the Government is not here all day with us and all the other ministers, but we will come to that. Look, the minister was a researcher back then. We can make it up and we can interpret it if it's possible he's ever done a homework in high school. Why not? It's the same content. There's no more judgment here. It will just be necessary to swallow up, as we are swallowing these minutes, only to pass over to a more concrete work, to do this vote, which is already known at the beginning, how it will take place, and this country has absolutely no benefit. Absolutely none. The taxpayers, however, may be angry at all of us, especially those requiring meetings of the National Assembly with such content. Of course, I can't support this interpretation because I still have so much judgment. But if I lost her, like some people did, I wouldn't want to be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you. Unfortunately, I must also say that today is another parliamentary day, because we are talking about something that has no basis nor in law nor in the constitution. We're interpreting the Minister of Labour in the past, not for what he does as a minister. In short, there is no basis for us to devote so much time to the debate and to the drafting of conclusions and to vote in favour of the Minister's interpretation. Because it can be said that this matter is constructed from A to Z. After this logic we will soon also begin to interpret those who once used to beat apples or something else. I don't think that actually belongs in this room, unless, of course, it's a completely different purpose for the interpreters, when we actually saw this morning that it was a very small participation. But this is great, of course, at the expense of taxpayers, a pre-election topic for European elections, although we are not yet at a time when we would have had time for election campaigns, but it is good that we do something else in stock to make someone "sacrifice" and push some dinosaur into our union that we were good. In short, I was not convinced by the content of this interpolation. I must say that I do not know Dr. Picala personally; I never spoke to him more than healthy — healthy and congratulating him on his appointment. And I think they're actually such and similar interpretations that are kind of fabricated from the opposite, just a reflection of an agenda that has been put in the National Assembly, not today, but already in genesis. It is a pure abuse of the rules of procedure, a pure abuse of the Constitution and a pure abuse of the law. It is clear that I will vote against the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. We're talking about eggs here today. In fact, we are talking about the lack of these, which is that the proponent has not yet gathered enough courage to start acting constructively, although this is, I will say, a constructive distrust or something like that. And where did this despair come from, your well-respected proponents? Where did this despair get you into these extreme methods and that each of your interpretations is worse? And this is actually the worst of all so far, and it comes even worse. Otherwise, Mr Grimes has already mentioned well when he actually said that today he only has a general for Friday. The truth is, it's a little different. Friday's exam, that's all. What's all this about? Your goal is to constantly awaken the feeling that we are in an emergency. And why do we have to wake up this one all the time, I'll say, feeling like we're in an emergency? Because under extraordinary circumstances, such a criminal may still be a hero, and you need extraordinary circumstances. Mr. Tanko mentioned the suspicion of corruption. Mr. Tanko, what are your criteria? What are your criteria, where is that limit, when someone can perform a public function and when it can no longer be? Is this a conviction? Is this a legal conviction? Mr. Tanko, I'm asking you what your opinion is. I hope you have it. And if you do, I hope you'll tell him. Is that an indictment? Is this a legal charge? Is that an NPU appeal? Is that an anonymous appeal? But is that a suspicion of corruption? Mr. Vizjak knows what he's talking about, because Mr. Vizjak said on one of the committees that he himself doesn't know whether he's corrupt or not, in short, that's the suspicion of corruption itself, is it perhaps that border of opinion of the SDS Inquisition? Look, that's fine, too, but please tell me what your standards are. You know, you can do better than that. Gather together and place a constructive trust. Now such, for example, a more technicalally oriented Slovenia would come at this point in time very well. For example, I can give you one suggestion: let us give Mr Janez Šuštersič as Prime Minister of the Government, and you also appreciate him, according to your statements. Then, for example, Mrs Romano Tomc is given as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, for example, Mr Tisel, here is the Minister of Health, and excellent choice Now Minister Chufer will stay, and you will also be welcome, don't worry, because he is a really great expert. [[…]] Now, look, get together and do something constructive, please. Shortcut [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] And we already have our own government. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u173	Mr. Pavlishich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u174	In short, if I may continue. In short, Mr. Tanko, what are your criteria for managing some public function? Please tell them nicely, publicly, that we will know what your criteria are. And when will you choose this courage, not to say anything else, for a constructive proposal, even though it will be a constructive non-trust to our government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I was not reported for discussion, but in the introduction, the Minister, of course in the style of Mr Klemenčič, who mentioned me as the main speaker, destroyed one lie like Mr Klemenčič, he destroyed it on Friday when he said that he did not have the opportunity to communicate with the police during my ministry. Today, the Director-General denied it. But that's not why I called, Minister, I'll be with you later, but look, someone said here, we'll use all the political means. But what means are used in democracy, if not in political means? I deeply believe that some of you are accustomed to some other means, such as those used after 1945, which were disastrous for the Slovenian people. That's what it was. I believe you're used to it. We are used, as we have predicted, to the use of political means. Political resources are used in democracy. What other means, those who take lives, those with whom they fight, are other political means that are not political. Now, if you think or start nostalgia after that time, then ask yourself about yourself and your conscience. As far as two interpretations and one referendum are concerned. My dears, all tomorrow's debate, just cash in on your own account. Who's to blame for tomorrow's debate? Perhaps those who proposed a referendum, or those who blamed it by law. Tomorrow's debate is entirely at your expense, you've passed the law. There wouldn't be a referendum if you didn't make the law you did. As far as other matters are concerned, two interpretations. Look, let me remind you, I remember the time there in 2007, just before the Presidency of the European Union, when we had an informal discussion at the government once about how good it would be if, at a time when the government was carrying out other tasks in the European Union, that is, at the time of the Presidency, when the then ministers were more in Brussels than at home, if they had such a constructive opposition that they would at least be a little more normal when they invest in interpretations, let's say, they were not. At the time we were chairing the European Union, I think you could check this out, put in three interpolations. My dears, then you will not be able to report at a time when we are not presiding over the European Union, so that we should not invest in interpolation. You also kept talking about how flawed, inappropriate she is, and I don't know what she's all about. Yes, let me replace Mr. Weber, because he decides what goes on and what doesn't, and I think he's made the right decision. Minister, you were cruelly insulting. I was sitting in that bench somewhere where the interpretation against me was filed, and I know how I behaved. You can take a look at that transmission. Look at the situation. It's just the way it is. I've worked hard and I've been dignified, even though sometimes I've been up to it, because you know what it's like to go to someone and um, I won't, three picks ahead. [[…]] In response, you have already told someone that a new interpretation should be against you, if you did not recommend it, not to suggest or to share Roman Leljak's books. Look, let me remind you that this book is talking about murder, about the two murders that have been committed by Slovenian citizens. Slovenian, still living citizens, have therefore blamed and executed two murders. That's what this book is talking about. Yesterday or the day before, such a ceremony took place in the hometown of this murdered gentleman. They should be there to see what it means to kill your cousin. Of course, there's a splinter there from now on when you said it. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine what you're doing. Imagine, because I can see that you're not even capable of voting a verdict to condemn such acts, that is, murder. You turned down these things. However, I recommend to you, Minister, that at least as tragic things as murder are not used as a joke in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Let me repeat one last thought. First of all, for all the interpretations that will be five in a row this week, only two in a week, if I comment a little bit like that, is actually the same print – SDS, everywhere, with all the means. But it's no big deal, it's a democratic system, and democracy actually has a very interesting method: raise your hand, press the button, and look, you choose 46 votes, vote no confidence. But when we talk about such serious matters as interpretation of someone who wasn't a minister at the time, what you're interpreting, not what happened today, during his ministry, but we're talking about what happened five years ago, and then it's really a question of using all the funds. But something is bad, ladies and gentlemen, and here I agree with Dr. Gorenak. It is bad that interpolation is a sign of the European Community, that we cannot find the slightest consensus on what is important or what is less important and do not have to play the games of interpretation at all costs. This is a bad sign for the European community, and it says exactly that we have a lot of problems within us, but we will certainly tell you that when we want to leave, then we will decide for ourselves, then we will say it, and then we will do it just as it is appropriate. My question, of course, is also very clear: Which of the SD members got the money from this project? Who's the one who got that money? Who? We've already told you that Dr. Pikalo is not our member, nor was he then. So who's the one who got this money? How does SD relate to this? Except the minister was doing his job. That's why I'm saying, be dignified at least roughly, and don't just talk like that in three days. Now one more question comes to me like this. You mentioned the towers today. Yeah, why didn't you arrange them the year you had everything at your disposal? Why didn't you set them up? Today you are left with appropriate tools or weapons to wave and try to say that everything is wrong, about corruption, about customerism and all. However, we do have law enforcement authorities that must do so, or the Court of Auditors in the event of this public tender. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I will not support interpellation, of course. I'll vote against it with great pleasure. And I'm sure this time it was made solely because, as I said before, of the prints in all the referendums, of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Meh. I give my word to Mr. Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I, too, am one of those who has no intention of calling today, but we still need to explore and break down some arguments, counter-arguments, because this is all that matters when one is interpreting a minister or a government. I believe that the first of the arguments made today by the Minister that interpellation does not have a basis because it was a researcher at the time, is now a minister. I could say that would be true. On the one hand, I would support this argument, at least for those first words. It is important to point out, however, that the Minister was not previously a welder, an engineer, but was a researcher in an institution funded by the state budget and has now only advanced in these five years to the role of minister who also decides on this money. So here's that conflict of interest. We're talking about the word, not the accusation, but the hygiene and the hygiene of one thing. If Mr Pikalo were Minister of Agriculture, or anything else, of course, he would not have had that effect, at least I believe not, on the institution as he has it now, so his path is still continuing, by coming from the researcher at this point into someone who decides on public money. What's important is that interpellation is just a political institute that's being decided. People create opinions, today through direct transmission, how a person who has some legitimacy decides on public good. And here you can see all of his ethics, all of his breadth of debate. And those who say that we will fight with all political means, yes, I am in Parliament, too, because I believe that I will fight with political means to achieve some of my goals, goals from which I think this society could work better, so that it can act as if it has enough manoeuvre. And these are political means, in democracy we say that we have political resources, so we are loved in elections, we get a few percent by that, we get the basic input of democracy called legality, and by this legitimacy we decide here in the National Assembly. What is the second part is important is the very breadth of the Minister's debate, which I believe is the basis for a new interpolation. I would give new interpretation and also predict – this is his understanding of public and private education. Last night, a fellow from Vienna, with whom we were once even a roommate, who is now a lecturer at MIT, told me a few of the following facts when we wrote to each other. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, in America, for example, do not talk about public and private education, especially public and private education. However, private education does not mean that someone establishes a university and draws money from it, but most of these universities are nonprofitable. In America, you have a whole series of charts that talk about it. Regarding the quality of the study, it is you who are obliged to recruit and set up people who are independent, who will also assess the quality of private education, private education, whatever we call it. Continuation. Understanding private education in America is such that the first 20 top, elite universities after ranking are private. Berkeley is 21st in the world as the first public university. So much for private and public education. And please, if you don't speak in this direction anymore and the deterioration. Competition is needed. You are talking in particular about the fact that the monopoly of public universities must remain and in particular the monopoly of one university you represent, a university that was created or a university of those created in 1961 as a high political school that had the support of Dolanc and the leadership of the former totalitarian regime, which was later renamed the University of Sociology, political science, that is to say continued its indoctrination of future journalists, future sociologists. This school became the Faculty of Social Sciences in 1991. This is the last institution that has never been cleansed, where a whole series of killers after World War II, the renaissances, today are doctors of science. This is the last institution that can talk about patriotism. This is the last institution that can talk about patriotism and that it even applies and if today, if it were to be abolished yesterday, I don't think there would be any harm, Mr. Secretary! [[…]] There would be no harm done! Regarding your knowledge of engineers, in one of the following debates, because they have asked me to protect the work of engineers and technicians in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, at the outset, may I ask you whether you and former Minister Luksic have filed a complaint against Mr. Merc? For today they speak of some anonymities, but Mr Merc has signed himself, and very harsh views. Or it's too dangerous to press charges against Merco because it's hard to prove and win this lawsuit. Now the second thing I'm asking you is whether you're going to change the curriculum on civic and domestic education. In fact, Dr. Giga Turk writes: "If Minister Luksic believed in the results of this expensive research, he could immediately initiate a curicular overhaul, but he did not." But she's not. Is anyone, you're going to trigger it on the basis of these studies, or is the money being thrown away, mostly. If you believe in research, you'll trigger it, you might already trigger it, you might already have Lukšič. There is something that needs to be done in this area when we are already having this debate on civic and patriotic education. You know, as I mentioned today, it's my experience that I've been in a lot of trouble every time I stand up for it. The greatest sin is, if I mention it, to say that they are – they are not getting up, they will not be wrong, I have even supported certain demands of the rebels – and those night raids on the homes of the municipal saints were a replica of the Nazi marches of April 1941. [[…]] And I'm being measured because that's how they came for my father and locked him up. And in the prison at the mill barracks, Alphonzo Sharhom was imprisoned together by genuine Slovenians. And yet there is another sin, if I say, do not abuse Sharah, but paint him with a star upon a drop; for he never had it, because Sharh was legitimate, because he recognized the legitimacy and considered himself a king's soldier at that time as lawful. And now it's a pogrom, there's an immediate protest. And I agree, of course, that patriotism needs to start in the family. I've been through this before, but that's why I've been in this mess. I was also involved because General Maister was planning to disarm the green guard in my birth house, and because of the thanks there, according to my ancestor there is also the street in Maribor, Jerovsk. And you shouldn't even say that to me. They're right behind me when I'm comparing some things. And Minister, I want you to actually do what you're doing at the first option, that speaking and discussing and learning patriotism is always modern, that it's not premodern, as Dr. Miheljak claims, and in fact, he attacks everyone if someone advocates patriotism with his low points of cleavage. But I'm in doubt that you've changed your attitude before because you've been pressured, probably you shouldn't express yourself like that about the work of college ideology, where there's obviously something premodern about patriotism and that's how students are taught. Wrong! Today, when Europe faces new security problems, after criminal events or criminal events, patriotism is still important. And I hope that the left option of this will also be aware that it will not attack those who claim to be respected to be strengthened. It is time for you to realize that you do not have this as a pre-modern issue, but that patriotism is actually necessary and must also be put into school programs. And once again, I ask you, are you going to change your curriculum based on all this knowledge and also on the research that was paid dearly and that you were doing?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u183	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will repeat that thought from the opinion of the parliamentary group, which remains as firm in me after all these hours, that is, this is an interpretation that should not be. In fact, if any of the offences were committed, they would be identified by the competent law enforcement authorities and those alleged to have been involved would be responsible. However, if this is supposed to be an interpellation as a political act, as an act in which the opposition assesses whether the Minister has fulfilled in his department the obligations he had predicted at the beginning or meets his legal obligations, then I say that there was almost no talk about it, but about everything else. However, over time, I have learned from this debate that what bothers me is that this project was carried out on the basis of European guidelines and agreements, that it was a project which, however, had the title of a formal form of education for citizenship in a multicultural society, not any project on anything but on citizenship and in a multicultural society. I mentioned that there were, in fact, two sets that researchers or two research institutions have applied for, each following their own objectives. And I have to say, if you look at what was, what were the two aspects involved, it seems to me that this is very important, that it was about strengthening civic education, not civic education. Citizenship education or understanding of citizenship in relation to the international integration in which Slovenia entered. It is mainly about this understanding of the relationship between the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. The second aspect was the successful integration of migrant students. This second aspect seems particularly important to me because the international research of PISA and the like have found that migrant children are poorly involved in the Slovenian school system and later in society. And these are probably things that we should have a lot to deal with. But I was even more concerned when I began to perceive in the debate that some of them were simply ordering, what content should be in the subject of civic and domestic education and ethics, which they dictate. It was felt from the speech that if there were not exactly the content that they themselves thought they should be included in the curriculum, in the curriculum, everything would certainly be worth nothing. But this expression — ideologically nothing — is also from a letter that needs to be understood as such. I advocate the freedom to express different views on the same things. It is a pity that those who have so much to say at the expense of totalitarianism do not perceive in their taking the desire to uniform their views on certain things. You will not be able to convince seven students and eight students to think similarly under Chapters Belief, Faith, State or Republic of Slovenia is based on human rights, the Community of Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, Individual-Community-State, and I have read only four programming sets from the curriculum for the seventh grade. It is simply that if we really want to live as a patient, humane, plural society, then we will have to change some of our views and expectations. The fundamental problem is that you offer what the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence offers, which is another problem that is not discussed today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. I've been asking myself for eight hours now, and we're trying to figure out what actually created the content of your interpretation. And I was trying to figure out if you had an anonymous criminal complaint in your hands and you were writing this interpolation on her basis or if you had something else in your hands. Mrs Pučnik said that you did not have this anonymous criminal complaint in your hands and that you do not know what it looks like or what it says, but that you have taken into account what was said in the media. I reviewed the video from January 8th to January 10th, which you also attached to your application for a special session of the Education Committee, where you wanted to discuss this topic. And also from those documents it can be concluded that the content of your interpretation, when compared to what was written in the media, cannot be fully reflected in each other. Because in your interpretation, there are things written that weren't in the media. In fact, the key thing that's been recorded in the media, but it's different in your interpretation, is the address book. The media reports that a criminal charge against Luksic has been filed. In January 2014, it was very politically currant to strike after the President of the Social Democrats. And then you, like the horses with the coats, went towards the target using all the political means, wrote the interpretation, somewhere ahead of the goal, you found that you cannot interpret Lukšič because he is not in the government, but that Pikalo, which is in the government, could also be shown as a good substitute in connection with the project being given to a particular institution or not in 2010. Well, when I was wondering who then helped you write this interpolation, I heard some answers from some of your discussions that give me something to know. In fact, you have very much referred to what civic education should look like and that the real example of what this thing should look like is written on the website of the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence. You also mentioned the name of a high official, a former high-ranking official at the Ministry of Education, who, by the way, also gave certain values to this project on POP TV. I'm not going to do insinuations and speculations in your manner, but I'm afraid that's why a lot of data has actually come this way. Unfortunately, you do not say what is important for the content of your interpretation, but where the basis for this project was, in fact, the basis for it, as already mentioned today, in the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources for the period 2007-2013, which was the basis for the allocation of funds from the European Social Fund, i.e. for European funds. On 129 pages of this operational programme, however, the operational programme was written by the government led by the SDS and there is no mention of the word patriotism in any place. And amazingly, today you are expecting from a project that has actually been carried out in the context of the European view of civic culture and the effort for European active citizenship, suddenly you are demanding national patriotism. In this concept of projects that countries had to implement at the time in the field of active citizenship for residence or cooperation within the framework of the European Union, however, the focus was on the European and international aspects as well as on the national aspects. And we can most likely say that in a project like this, we cannot expect the entire curriculum of an object to be covered. However, people working at the Institute of Education also have a key word for the curriculum. I didn't want to say the last thing, and I'm gonna say it anyway. At the Faculty of Social Sciences, there were a lot of different researchers. One of your colleagues hit on them today. I would like to tell you that even those on whom you give a lot because your client's apologists have been educated at the Faculty of Social Sciences. Do you fully trust them?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u187	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Jerney Pikalo. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u188	You know, I'm very fond of performing in the National Assembly, unlike any other colleagues, because of course I think it's that temple of democracy. Two little things first. Mr Gorenak, not small by content, I did not want to offend you in any way, even otherwise, I wanted to commend you as one who knows what is about the Lateran Council and so on. And even less, of course, I have this attitude towards the victims to make fun of the victims, as you said. No, far from it. Second thing, if I heard correctly, someone said Berkeley is a university, no Berkeley is not a university, Berkeley is part of the University of California system, if you want. And things are going a little differently there than they are with us. But this is a system of public universities, and I agree with that. A few things, a few words that I think I have to say to conclude. The one you're interpreting today is not a real minister, because, of course, at the time of this call, I wasn't a minister. What you're interpolating isn't the right ministry, because of course there wasn't that ministry back then. There was no Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, but there was another Ministry. What you're talking about is not a real article of the Penal Code. I think we've said this a number of times, and that's the way it is. Today, in fact, someone else is intertwined, which is not between us and who, of course, cannot be intertwined. It's a matter of SDS and their, if you want, political culture about who we're interpreting and in what way. Exceptionally, I think that I have agreed several times today, as far as party February and their family members are concerned, on a systematic, predetermined use of funds. Look here, I have four judgments on behalf of the people. Four judgements for concessions, five million euros worth. Five million euros. So I'm talking about how systematically I'm corrupt, come on, we used to call it, put it at your doorstep. Maybe another piece of information. The Faculty of Applied Social Studies, which I think you know the actors, received €399 000 459 for summer schools at last year's invitation, in 2012, for summer schools. Of course, by objective criteria, there will be no misunderstanding. And I agree with you, Mr Tanko, indeed, there have been delegated invitations and this has undoubtedly been found by the court. So in the future, when we go to this game, let's take that into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you. The text is given by the proposaler, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. When we go to this word game, I'd only remember one important detail. It has not been many days since the Constitutional Court annulled the Real Estate Tax Act, which was entrusted to the President of the Government. With the decision of the Constitutional Court, the trustee to the President of the Government fell in substance too, because the budget you supported is no longer there. It's got about 400 million holes in it. And by the time the marriage fell, the government must fall [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u191	Mr. Tanko, we're in the middle of an interview, so please stay with the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u192	We're talking about integrity. First case. This is the same as what Mr Minister went to other content that is not the subject of what I signed as the first to sign when interpreting. Secondly, when we talk about the integrity of individual members of the government cabinet – the moment when it comes to the conclusion that there have been suspicions of various actions, Mr Pikalo, Mr Virant, Mr Omerzel and some other ministers – that moment is the problem for everyone else, especially those who propose a debate on these things, the actions related to the political work or the work of the official so far. Indeed, integrity before the term of office is very important for officials by the definition of the KPK, including by Mr Virant, who sits here in the Chamber. Truda Cinderella left the parliamentary bench because of a mistake when she was a municipal official, an official in the administrative unit. Mr Ivan Simčič was expelled from the DeSUS Group for a matter which has nothing to do with the election and the function of the Member. Ivan Vogrin – no relation to his business activity with the election and function of a Member, all that had been disputed to him had happened before the act of Member. Alenka Koren Gomboc 10 years before she was elected as an MP, what happened happened. And they are no longer Members, or should no longer be Members by the definition of Mr Virant. The same criteria apply to Mr Pikal. He has worked and participated in a project where a million EUR 400,000 has been distributed, a large majority for fees, salaries and business contracts. It was a political project that was allocated to distinguished members of the Social Democrats. He was also attended by prominent family members of the current Minister of Education. And that's where the big money was shared. And unfortunately, the moment it comes to current government officials, the current coalitions, all the stories about integrity disappear, all the stories about integrity fall down because you're doing quite differently than you're asking everyone else in this country. As you demand from everyone else in this country. Mr Virant also demanded a great deal when he was also president of the National Assembly, from members of the National Assembly and from other officials. He always had the best response ready that moment for the media when anything happened in that sense. Today, these statements are no longer available. There are no more acts today. And the message of this vote will probably be clear for the Slovenian public. Privileged groups shall remain privileged groups. The privileged members of the coalition shall remain privileged members of the coalition. And this is a message from this interpolation. Nothing happens to anyone if they belong to a real power, a real client, a real coalition client, a real partner. But everyone else is a problem, even if it's a wealth of things, even a traffic violation would be a problem. Even if I did, say, one of the Members would be a great scandal and probably would have been called for no reason to resign. But when it comes to millions — nothing, nothing, loyal members of this coalition remain and defend themselves against all odds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u193	Thank you. This concludes the debate on interpolation. Interpellators shall propose to the assembly that the following decision be adopted after the discussion. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives an untrust to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikal. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 180 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be handed over to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. I suggest you check the functioning of the voting devices. We can decide. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I find that the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikal, was not voted untrustworthy. With this, I thank both the Minister and others for their cooperation and, of course, I also wish the Minister a successful job in the future. I also conclude this item on the agenda. Let's get back to work. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday, 27. 3. In 2014, the Council, on a proposal from the Government as a proposal for a draft law, decided that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at that meeting, the third reading of the draft law had taken place in the second reading. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly, in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Financial Administration Bill under the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday, 27. 3. In 2014, the second reading of that proposal was carried out. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as the proposer of the draft law, decided that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at this meeting. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment tabled that you have received on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 104 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. The explanation for the vote, or the debate, is so, I apologize, the debate, Mr Jakob Preseknik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Well, since this is an amendment to the third reading, in fact, I think it is identical, practically identical, as was last submitted by the SDS Group in the second reading, but it is essentially the same, but I think it is substantively the same as we tabled in the Slovenian People's Party Group for the last time. So this is where the whole co-operation took place, there was one solution on the committee, then with the amendment of the coalition, the decision was changed again at the assembly and so on. I can say, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, that, by the way, we support the solution that has been given, because, as we say, it is identical to what we have advocated in the debate and what we have also proved by voting. However, there is a problem pending the adoption of the relevant legislation, which will reorganise the organisation of the state administration at the territorial level. Now I don't know exactly what kind of legislation this is going to be, but yes, something will have to be done, obviously the government or coalition has committed itself to some legislation regarding the representation of the state at the local level somehow. So obviously that debate was the last time, a couple of hours, there was another debate, without which we would have settled a few days ago, and it would not have been necessary to discuss it for two hours and not to vote on it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u195	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? There are more of you, so I suggest you sign up for the debate. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u196	Your Honor! With this amendment in the third reading, which is very important for many, especially for some effective functioning of the financial administration — this amendment somehow corrects what the government had overlooked or did not want to hear from the very beginning. The serious reorganisation of tax offices into financial offices, of course, does not go exactly as some circles in Ljubljana imagine, regardless of what is going on in the field. And so, of course, a study was made, some simulations were made, and from now 15 tax offices, only 8 years were to be born after the new birth. This is another example of how each ministry wants to partially regulate the reorganisation of state institutions on the ground for itself. And I think that this is unacceptable, and I think it is right that in the end we Members have corrected what the government does not want and never wants to see, so that it is necessary to be relatively careful and reasonable to intervene in the presence of state authorities in the field not only because of their accessibility, but also because they allow for as much normal development and ultimately the economy, the services that are close. I can't imagine how the reorganisation, as the government had imagined, would create only 8 financial administrations, would have worked at least as effectively as before, so that some from Kočev would have to do these things in Ljubljana and so on. Your Honor, even from this amendment, you can see how ineffective this part works when we talk about a coalition in Parliament and a government that apparently shuts down into some of its own or especially the Ministry of Finance, which shuts down in some of the spinning spaces and doesn't hear what's going on around them. Secretary of State, I personally reminded you of this problem about three, four months ago. You were deaf at the time, and now in the third reading, you're raping us with these solutions, half because you didn't want to overlook reality. This is one of the many problems you and your attitude towards politics. The same was true of the real estate tax and any other project. Because you think you've swallowed the whole mind of this world and stubbornly insist on yours to the end. No matter what the consequences are or what the consequences are. And I'm hoping you're going to run another project because of this stubbornness.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. We finally got to the third reading amendment, the one we've always wanted. It is no big deal if there have been long debates, colleague Jakob Preseknik, and I also agree with my colleague Visiak that it was a difficult topic. We have advocated that the headquarters of financial administrations remain where they are until we agree on the reorganisation of the state administration at the local level, at the territorial level. It is also because I find it very incomprehensible and very unorganised that each ministry sets up maps for itself and sets up some of its functional offices. It is right to agree politically and reach a political consensus on what we will do, how our country will be shaped and how many regions there will be, how many all these provincial administrations and offices will be. And the step towards this is certainly an amendment to the 104th Article, which leaves the situation as it is. Until we agree on what will happen next, what will happen in the future, and then we draw the line and say, financial offices, financial administrations will be as many as there will be administrative thefts and all the other ones they plan in other ministries. In Positive Slovenia, as well as probably in the coalition, this amendment in the third reading will be welcomed in article 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u199	Thank you. It's still an interest in the debate. I suggest you sign up for the debate. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, respectable government! This amendment is a typical example of how a coalition in the National Assembly works. When we proposed a virtually identical amendment to the second reading session, you knocked him dead cold. And it took a week to wait or a few days to wait for you to come up with the solution we proposed. And I ask now all those gentlemen, Meha, Brulca and others who have so much to say, who is doing problems in the National Assembly, to say why it is necessary to wipe out every SDS proposal, that there is no trace, and then the coalition will essentially prescribe a solution and sell it to people as its own. What is the point of such a way of working, respected members of coalition parties? Madam Government, what's the point? Why are you doing this? And in the end, we get to plagiarism, to the point of the idea, and then it goes into the law exactly as we suggested. I suggest that you are rational in the process of enacting laws on the working bodies and in the national assembly to support the ideas that we propose primarily in the SDS, our most problematic to define by that time. Without repeating this exercise from day to day, from week to week, we extend the meetings of the National Assembly and then someone even has a face to sign under the amendment that you have rejected. Four presidents, four leaders of the parliamentary groups signed this. Under the solution that we proposed last week and you refused. If this is how it works, if this is someone, I will say ethically, if this is a substantive approach, then it has to be discussed and determined in some way. I am, however, particularly happy that this solution that you prescribed from us keeps the tax office in Kočev. At least that is what we have achieved with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I am extremely pleased that today we will accept this, this amendment and this law in this form, as of course it is now written. I am pleased that my commitment from the very beginning has been to amend that first text, which was, of course, unacceptable to certain regions. For those regions that always end shorter in Slovenia. This was also the case with the organisation of police administrations, called Zasavje, Koroška, Posavje, Notranjska and so on. In short, through this acquisition, even in the second reading or on the committee, that we were able to even bring the amendment through the text, so that 12 statistical regions would be, I would say, those in which 12 financial offices would then be. Of course, there were other interests that, through this amendment, there was also an amendment of the coalition – in the coalition we agreed on this text that it would actually remain at the level of 15 tax offices, that is to say 15 financial offices. With this, of course, we are somehow satisfied with both the opposition and the coalition and, of course, our citizens in all these regions, who would now draw short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Of course I'm not happy. Not with the condition so far. I will have nothing against this amendment because we have proposed it in the previous phase. But I'm dissatisfied with the hypocrisy, literally, of these coalitions. First, it abolished the tax offices – or what they were called – in Slovenska Bistrica, Slovenian Konjica, some places. We had to get to the tax office, that office, because it's such a big administrative unit, drive 25 kilometers. Now they must be in Maribor or one of the officials in Bistrica, but they must not save anything and the business is more expensive than it was at the beginning. And I'm asking if you're going to give us the state administration on this amendment. Madam Secretary of State, is this going to happen? I specifically ask about Slovenian Bistrica. The largest, probably in addition to Ljubljana, administrative unit – 37,000 people, this is also the largest constituency in the country, is tied to this. If I say so, the tower on Rogli is the administrative unit, the tower on Boč, the church on Areh is this administrative unit. 25 kilometers away, an hour's drive from somewhere. And you shut that down for us. And you shut down many people's normal functioning, normal business. You have increased the cost of countries because these people must now take leave to get to Maribor, destroyed all day and have crazy expenses. But you agreed with that at the time, and then you agreed and you're working pretty hard behind my back, I'll tell you, coalition, pretty sassy. Because now some strong people are in these three places, you have temporarily done so. Now there's no rationalization you've ever waved and talked to before. We are injured, our citizens are severely injured at the expense of others! To encourage, once again, you're the functioning of financial offices. Give us back what we're doing and spatter where we can, but don't have such million-dollar civic education projects, and I don't know what all the fictional things we've dealt with before. But it's not like you're taking away citizens from the possibility of communicating and managing your current affairs. That's outrageous, but it's the way this coalition rules. Take everything he's doing to an average citizen and transfer it to centres for some dedicated people. It's the philosophy of that coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u206	In fact, it would not be much to say about this amendment, but rather to accept the fact that this amendment is doing what is actually right to try to bring citizens, citizens and citizens closer or to preserve what they had. That's actually the essence of this amendment. And I agreed with the fact that in the past we have often done what we now wanted to do. With administrative units, with reorganisations, all this was done, and that's what all governments did. In any case, at any time when someone was the responsible minister in a government, he was rationalizing in some area without looking at it as a whole. And that's wrong. It would therefore be right to hold a very in-depth debate on the content of this problem, or the task, of resolving how we will solve this task. And if we did, we wouldn't work, we wouldn't shut down administrative units, or whatever it is, or even financial administrations. When we discussed the Financial Administration Act, ladies and gentlemen, how many amendments were there? Does anyone know? There were amendments to the amendments, amendments, amendments and simply it was not possible then to make a very rational and substantive decision about what was going on with these amendments. And according to the pattern of SDS prints, exactly what happens is that the SDS always does a bunch of amendments over and over again, which in fact then prepare everything that's in the law of good actually mix. In fact, the harmonisation amendment had this purpose to regulate what had to be regulated in this law, and I will, of course, support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u207	Thank you. I find that there is still a desire for a debate. [[…]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u208	I will, of course, support our amendment. However, I see that you have one serious problem, obviously with what Mr Kavtičnik said last time on the Committee on Culture, that some can no longer do things on one or more occasions. Mr Meh did not understand, because there were too many amendments, it took him a week to understand that this amendment we tabled in the SDS was good. So obviously, Mr Kavtičnik, he concluded to you that you can no longer work at once and that this was an excuse like this one of yours, as if the cat on your tail brought him in, that you didn't back him up at the time, and now you will, because obviously there are fewer amendments, but the thing is more transparent and you understand it better. That seems like such a cheap excuse to save ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u209	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Does she want a word, perhaps, from a representative of the government? He doesn't want to. Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u210	In my question, I asked the Secretary of State. If you will return the office to Slovenia Bistrica on the basis of this amendment. Because it's excused. There's a lot of people out there. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u211	Mr Jerovšek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, you do not have it for discussion. The question is debate, the question is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u212	Yeah. I ask because I want to have an answer, so I am gradually proposing that the Secretary of State answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-31-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u213	Thank you. I'm guessing there's no more word for it. That is why I conclude the debate. And we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 104. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly, the bill has not been harmonised, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Can we make a decision? We're voting on the law. There are 78 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also interrupt the 23rd meeting of the convention, which we will continue on Wednesday 2. 4. 2014, at 9 a.m. Thank you for today and goodbye tomorrow.
