ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Janja Nabast, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, Mr Matvež Frangež, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Mr Branko Kurnjek from 3 p.m. and Mr Richard Braniselj from 2 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Ministers and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representatives of 5,000 voters and voters to the 7th and 8th agendas and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 21 February 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw a point from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. Following an agreement at the 84th meeting of the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly on 24 February 2014, I propose to the Assembly that the agenda of the 22nd session be extended by the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Public Procurement, the urgent procedure, EPA 1802-VI, and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services, the urgent procedure, EPA 1801-VI. You have received a proposal for enlargement on Monday, 24 February 2014, and I also propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together, and we will, of course, vote on each proposal separately. I ask if a representative of the Government, who is the proponent of the bill proposals, would like a word with regard to the subject of an extension of the agenda. I guess not. Perhaps one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word on the extension? He does. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! In view of the text of both laws, we at first had a desire in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and also the intention to support both laws in order to expand the agenda as well as the content itself. However, from the articles themselves, it is not possible to understand the text in detail as we have been able to track or draw attention to three sets which, in their opinion, are weak and pose a great danger that this law or both laws will not achieve those objectives that we want to pursue. They specifically alerted them to their shortcomings. Given that they themselves did not have enough time to comment in such a way that they could be taken into account in the text of the law, their comments to the text were not made and were not taken into account. For these reasons, and in particular because of the State Audit Commission's comments in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we consider that the urgency of the procedure for these two laws is inappropriate and that is why we will abstain in the enlargement vote, as well as in the further examination process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you, too. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I guess not. We have thus concluded the debate on the proposals for enlargement. We are moving on to a decision, so I ask you to check the operation of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, urgent procedure, EPA 1802-VI. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. I inform you that the National Assembly will consider the draft law as the 1st item of the agenda on Thursday, 6 March 2014. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services, urgent procedure, EPA 1801-VI. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. At the same time, I inform you that the National Assembly will consider the draft law as 1st item of the agenda on Thursday, 6 March 2014. We are moving on to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to it and the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written applications for 39 questions from the Member States. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the outgoing question of the ruling coalition group will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The MP who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. I also inform you that Karel Erjavec, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior, and Roman Jakič, Minister of Defence, apologized in connection with today's item. An e-club provides an overview of the Member's question, which was not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions, as I said in the introduction, will be answered by Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. The first question will be put to the President of the Government, Mr Franz Bogovic, Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u4	Good afternoon, dear President, colleague and colleague, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished ministerial assembly, especially those three, Minister and Minister, who are among us today for the first time in this session. From 15 October to 29 November, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the coalition adopted the Real Estate Tax Act following an emergency procedure, which is unusual for the system law. We have strongly opposed this in all opposition parties. At my invitation and the invitation of the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr Branko Meh, the petition against this tax was signed by 80,000 people. You also received a veto from the State Council, but all this was not enough for this government and coalition stampede to go its own way. We have drawn attention to the unregulated property records, the problematic tax rates, the questionable lack of appeal procedures, to the fact that people will have high costs if such a law as you have proposed is adopted, to the apparent migrations and so on. We didn't just warn. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have requested a number of committees, on the other hand, we have also proposed a number of amendments, which we also sought to improve this law in the process on the basis of the opinions of legal professionals. Unfortunately, all the amendments, with the exception of one, were rejected, and we have a law as it is. I am pleased that the Constitutional Court has taken priority over this law and that, at the first stage, it has decided first on the procedure as it is. That informational calculations have been made, however, so that the Tax Administration may not issue decisions. On the basis of these informational calculations, what we predicted was what we knew about the consequences of this law, which we also knew with what work at the local level. That's why I'm asking you, Madam President, In view of the high costs that people have incurred when more than ten thousand people, according to our known data, have handled various land matters, who will actually be responsible for increasing these costs, which have been caused largely by the law so adopted? There are signs in the land book, various gift contracts and so on. After all, it is a cost that is measured even in the days, the permits that these people had to take to go to various offices. Much work has been done in the office at this address, and someone has to be responsible for it. I also asked you for political responsibility, because this law and later on to the budget were voted by the confidant to you and your government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you. The question raised will be answered by the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for allowing me to explain again today the reasons why the government had to decide what it had done. I do not think it is in this Chamber which would not agree that consolidation of public finances is necessary. But we're different in the way and in the speed of doing it. Consolidation of public finances can be achieved, I always say, in three ways. First, by reducing expenditure; secondly, by increasing revenue; thirdly, by combining both. And it was this third time that my government, or ours, picked up when it took over to practice in its own hands. That is why we have ended up with headless austerity, which, as shown in the figures, has had a bad impact on the economy. It needs to be honest. The real estate tax is not entirely new, we replace four taxes. This is a compensation for the use of building land, property tax, forest road charges and higher value immovable property tax. In short, this is not entirely new and is known to practically the whole of Europe. At this point, I think there are two countries that do not know this tax. I can tell you, given that I still hear from time to time that it would be better for a threesome to come to Slovenia than to solve their own problems, there is no country that would have been in a three-way programme and Ireland should not have introduced this tax last year, but all the other countries had to raise this property tax, which they already had. Then they wouldn't ask me whether it makes sense or not, but they should just do it. And one more thing is important. Taxation of assets, when compared with OECD Member States, is strong under the OECD average with these four taxes. 0.6% of GDP is collected from property taxes, the OECD average is 1.8%. Also with real estate tax, we will be just below this average – about 1.1% of GDP. But it must be fair to say that the introduction of real estate tax did not start last year. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate was adopted in 2006. Article 1 of this Act states: "This law governs the valuation of value, valuation of property in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the mass valuation of property due to taxation", which is first of all, "and other public purposes determined by law." In 2006, 2007 a census was drawn up. I think that in 2010, we all got home data with informational calculations of the value of our properties and were invited to arrange it. Of course, the state could not have arranged this instead. Finally, until today, the state has paid EUR 20 million for this project, which has already been essentially intended for real estate tax. And who do you think, Mr Bogovich, will return this to our citizens if we throw the project in the trash and say there is no need? 20 million, over 13,000 average wages. More than 32,000 average pensions. Not to say we could use this money to rebuild bridges, state roads and more. Reimbursement for the use of building land, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] who you say could be returned, has also experienced many constitutional judgments. [[…]] A number of delays were cancelled by the Constitutional Court and already in 1999 the Constitutional Court warned that it would be appropriate for the system of duties to be transformed into a property tax. More in addition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovich has a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you very much. With this answer, I cannot be satisfied and shows what the problem is in our country. We don't even listen, we don't hear. You haven't answered in a single word who will be responsible for what you've done to people. Your answer also proves the estrangement of power from humans. We just don't hear from each other anymore. In this society, all we want to say is what someone thinks it's good to talk. And that's what you've been doing behind this counter for the past year, and today you've demonstrated this in an excellent way on some issue where people need to be looked in the eye. And when such laws are passed, respected president, we have properly assessed the consequences of those who have already spent an hour in the field. You've been vehemently rejecting us that this is not true. You were followed by a coalition the same way. The same night as we talked about this tax, we talked about the budget, and in the end, a nice pear deposit was a confidant to the government of the President, even four, five months earlier than was predicted. This is a photograph they put on Facebook by your ministers, your government ministers. Feet on the table, and you fuck around in this room and talk about the tax, it's all settled, and we wait till morning, so we can celebrate in peace. It's a relationship, respectable Prime Minister, with people. Not to those who point out what is happening in this country, and that is our key problem today. I never said I was against that tax myself. And once again, as I have said several times before, I estimate that, first of all, from 1 January 2016, this tax could be put to life in order to remedy those shortcomings that are still in this law. It's about someone else being guilty. Or if someone decides to buy a car at the house, they buy it in five years, and then someone makes a car crash. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Bogovich. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u10	I will add, Mr Bogovic, what you are asking in your question. But I think it's okay for us to look at people's faces and tell them what's next if they don't. I think that's fair and fair to people and they don't follow beautiful things. The 400 million Euros to be received by the property tax are virtually all the social transfers we have provided in the state budget. 10% of pensions, 16% of wages, and we can continue. But you also asked me about the total amount of tax on the basis of the informational calculations. I can tell you that based on the information calculations, it would be €407 million. It is said that we have been quite conservative in our assessments, which is, of course, correct. This is necessary in public finances. As regards the increase in the number of changes in permanent residence. Accurate data on this is virtually impossible to obtain because administrative units do not collect why a person changes residence. But I would like the citizens to do so because they really live there. And a land book and a personal service. The government doesn't have these numbers either, but we have requested the Supreme Court for the information you want and I will gladly submit them to you as soon as I receive them. But there's something else I'd like to say about service. A personal service is the right of the holder to use a foreign matter or to exercise a right. And personal service is created on the basis of a legal matter and a judicial decision. I think Friday I was able to read in one of the daily newspapers the title Benefit Didn’t Pay Many. You know that notaries themselves say that it is obvious that many have come to the notaries to avoid paying taxes and not to settle this civil law relationship, which is the only right thing to do. And I call on the people, the ones who have to fix it, and they have to fix it. Not to settle this in order for people to avoid paying taxes. But here I believe you agree with me. And also one of the notaries said, "12 years ago, their service arrangements didn't fit, and now that reliefs were available, they're all in a hurry." That's our level. Those are words, not mine, but one of the Maribor notaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Bogovic has a proposal for a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u12	Dear President, as far as this is concerned, let us all draw one lesson together. Let us adopt such laws that they do not complicate people’s lives needlessly. We all live in this country, and we know what these records are. If the government doesn't know this, with all the experts, and make such a tax as it is now, God have mercy on the Slovenes and the Slovenians. This is not a problem for people, this is a problem for a government that rules, and it does not know the country that rules. This is the alienation we're talking about. As far as the damage is concerned, what will happen? Yes, we forgot that the Constitutional Court had on the same day that you must have given notice on the same day on purpose that you would make the first corrections in order to stop people's anger and violence from being judged by this Constitutional Court. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u13	Mr Bogovic, I must remind you that at this stage a proposal needs to be presented, why you will require a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u14	I will, Mr. Webber, if you'll give me time to introduce him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u15	I know, but you're actually delegating now at this stage because he can't answer you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u16	In this part, the Constitutional Court is the one to decide on this law. And who will then bear the consequences? I therefore propose that this law be discussed, as I have already pointed out on several occasions these consequences and I am reminding them today. On the same day, the government adopts a proposal that removes 90% of the problems, as you said. But let's leave 10% your way. Last week we said good-bye to Dr. Zagozna, who said in Mladina in 1988, "It was wheat, now weeds are growing". And then, in the first move, Kardelj is sacrificing the farmer. As you received on Friday's response, we can only extend it so that you sacrificed next to the farmer a craftsman, an entrepreneur, jobs and the like. That is why I want the debate to be held and to stop by the fact that we want only to build up a bad marriage, but we realize that there are a bunch of conceptual errors in this law, we put them out together and then we adopt the amended law and enforce it, as I have already said, with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Let's give people enough time and everything to make the marriage work out the way it's supposed to. At this time, you are in such a place when you will have to find the answers to a financial question. To find answers to what will happen with the funding of municipalities, as such a situation has prevented municipalities from issuing EUR 200 million of building land. And that's what I was telling you about last fall when you adopted the law. Therefore, I propose that we hold this debate and go from this height to the ground, just as people have put us down with their comments, and seriously, soberly, responsibly talk about this law and adopt an acceptable law for the people. I hope that this debate will be voted on primarily by the terms of the coalition, which is decisive in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 6 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. But we are moving on to the next question. The second question will be raised by Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear President of the Government, you have repeatedly said in this house that the situation in Slovenia is better today than it was a year ago. This is also justified by the increase in economic growth, which was minus 4.6% of GDP at the time of your takeover, in the third quarter of 2013 minus 0.6% of GDP, and on Friday, statistics published economic growth data in the fourth quarter of 2013, which is plus 1.2% of GDP, given the same quarter of 2012, which means that in Slovenia last quarter of the year we created EUR 133 million more than in the same quarter of 2012. Only as an interesting, equal value, i.e. €183 million has also been recorded by the state budget as a deficit in November 2013. Here I sincerely wish to express my congratulations and my appreciation to everyone in the country, especially the economy, which contributed to positive growth after eight consecutive declines. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: What measures do you attach to your government's rise in economic activity during the period from the takeover of power until the end of last year? Do you think the property tax will also promote economic activity in Slovenia? Representatives of the small economy, which represents almost 99% of the Slovenian economy, say that this tax is lost for them. Do you think that the enormous indebtedness of the country in the time of your government today and in the future, when loans are to be repaid, will promote economic activity? What measures do you plan to raise economic activity by the end of your term of office? Thank you in advance for your answers, Madam President. But I believe you understand that when a Member asks you, you answer to all citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for being able not only to say it again today, but also to show what the real situation is in the country. I am glad that the numbers now confirm my words that the situation in the country is better than it was a year ago. And it's true, GDP is the first time after eight quarters, that's two years, you can also see on the graph, positive. I am glad that 2013 ended, unfortunately still negative, but with a significantly less negative estimate or number, such as black-eyed forecasts. The fact is that exports are increasing. The fact is that gross investments have increased, and this has increased significantly, with a negative 20 in the first quarter of last year, growth is recorded at the end of the year over 20%, 22%. So the differences are really very, very obvious. Consumption is also slowly returning. Population has spent as much as it did a year ago and, of course, public consumption is due to the fact that we all say that consolidation of public finances is still negative and is significantly less negative than in previous times. Two things or two numbers, where you really don't know it yet, are unemployment and debt. And I'll get back to that. First, I'll try to give you the reasons that led to such positive numbers. First, as the new government, we have absolutely calmed the situation in the country, we have put an end to the constant threats of what will happen to the country and our citizens. We stopped our headless austerity, but we started consolidating, balancing public finances as the only right thing to do – and this is what I said when I was sitting on the other side as an opposition member – on the income and expenditure side. The 2013 balance has not yet been further affected by human rights as predicted. Changes in taxes have not yet been further affected by the entrepreneurial environment. The exception is, in particular, for a certain segment of the economy of real estate tax, but I have already said something about it, and perhaps also for the next question concerning it. And the measures we took last year were certainly prepared with a view to the driving force of our economy, these are exporters. The VAT hike that took place on 1 July, which we had to carry out, we know that, did not affect exporters because of the way in which they were billed. And we have always stressed this that it will not have a negative impact on the economy. The numbers confirm that we were right. At the property tax, I would like to say once again here that on average for the economy the rate is the same as with the NUSZ, but indeed that the municipalities charged this, I will say something radical or catastrophicly different. From 0.001%, in short, it wasn't a complete exemption, and you won't believe it, up to over 3%. This is happening with NUSZ in our country to the same Slovenian economy as 3%. Practically at each meeting, where I have the opportunity to sit with economists, I will see how the property tax affects them. Last week, I sat with five of them, including Julon, Talum, Paloma. Of the five, four will pay a lower property tax. Four companies will pay a lower property tax. We have prepared a loan fund for small and medium-sized enterprises via the SID Bank, and we have accelerated the use of European funds, which has certainly affected the increase in gross investment. As much as our country has drawn on European funds last year, it is never in this financial perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Horvat has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted something completely different, Madam President. Look, at least we Members can read statistics, read citizens and citizens, read newspapers and see what's going on. We're also going to calculate what we're going to do. I wanted, Madam President, to identify together those actions of your government that contributed to the growth of the economy, as shown by statistics. Why is that important? This is important in order to possibly further intensify the measures, if possible. Now you are saying and explaining that for businesses even the property tax or the abolition of the compensation for the use of the building land would help economic development. I can't agree with that. We're seeing each other, too. The New Slovenia Group met with the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, the Minister of Economy will agree, 99% of the Slovenian economy, perhaps slightly less, represents a small economy, and this small economy needs to be nurtured. And they said, the representatives of the Chamber, that this tax was lost for them. That's why I'm kind of disappointed, and I want to ask you again. Identify to the National Assembly and citizens and citizens of this country the concrete actions of these governments: laws, sub-laws, government regulations and so on, which have contributed to greater economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you. The President shall have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you. I'm not gonna count everything I said again. It is not necessary, however, that regulations, other government acts themselves, promote economic growth in order to list them now. But one more time. The use of European funds, which we have also talked about many times in this Chamber and have been criticised, is, I think, 15% more than ever. This had an impact on the gross volume of investments, and this had an impact on economic growth. The loan fund under the SID of the bank, which provides EUR 500 million on more favourable terms than the banks. Of course, the rehabilitation of banks itself is certainly, and I stress this from the outset, to the greatest extent, aimed at helping the economy. I am aware that we are not yet at the finish line here and that businesses do not yet have sufficient facilitating access to funding. But all of this, I don't think it's necessary to list the legal changes, the honourable Member, obviously shows that things are going in the right direction, but far from falling asleep on those good numbers. We are aware of the need to move forward. And we'll work. Reduction of administrative barriers. I speak to any foreigner, more than the tax burden tells me that there are too many administrative obstacles in Slovenia. We've gone to this, we've gathered together in one place, what we think should be changed, we're working on it, but we can't do all the things, especially here, I'm going to say in this administrative section that I'm going to change overnight. We will continue to work actively to accelerate the absorption of European funds, because, hand-to-heart, this is practically the only developmental money we are going through in Slovenia right now. Further improvement in corporate access to finance is said to be the money that we have set out for banks at this time, which must reach the economy as quickly as possible. And here we are working very actively on it. And lastly, the law has already been passed, aiding in the deleveraging and restructuring of businesses. This is our next major task to make our economy even easier. I am aware, however, that our citizens and citizens do not yet feel the feelings of all that appears in the figures. But it will also be possible for citizens and citizens to feel this. And soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Horvat has a proposal to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allows me to suggest to my colleagues that we take a decision on a broader debate on the Government's replies to my parliamentary questions. I agree that statistics are one thing and the other is real life, and what citizens will actually get from statistics that show good economic growth for once. Dear Prime Minister, I just expected you to make it clear that at least one measure of the government is this and this law, that it is, I don't know, the VAT Act, that it is the Real Estate Tax Act that promotes the economy. That's kind of how it was understood. But I think it is necessary to discuss the identification of the measures taken this year by the government and the coalition, to see which are more, which have contributed less to economic growth and to write down a set of new measures. We could say, but let's leave now, we know what we can say about statistics, but if now statistics show us well about economic growth, we can also understand that now the economy is in a rush, if that's true, then let's give this economy a boost. And let us say clearly, clearly, what are the measures to accelerate economic growth for new jobs, because this is actually the biggest problem. Until we create, I say again, not overnight, but until we create at least 60,000 new jobs, I mean here, of course, a balance of new jobs, until then our subsystems will not normally finance either health care or education or pensions and so on. Indeed, colleagues and colleagues, on what has affected the increased activity of economic growth, we need to hold a debate to identify positive and, of course, negative measures, so that we may decide which reforms that have not been adopted so far, which reforms are needed to be adopted in the National Assembly for the Faster Development of the Economy and for the greater well-being of citizens and citizens. I ask you to support this procedural proposal of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 6 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the third question put by Mr Jože Tanko, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Today, real estate is a leading topic, obviously, of these sent questions, not without reason, because the Slovenian Democratic Party and other opposition parties and civil society were not taken into account at any stage of the procedure, but were rather cynically processed.With real estate tax, the government has hit the foundations of society, family, property, economy, youth, poverty and so on. And this tax is just one of the taxes you put directly on them last year. You have significantly increased VAT and cadastral income, significantly reduced income reliefs, the effects of the latter will only be felt by citizens through the issuance of income decisions, you have encouraged blames and so on. At the same time, when you broke the family's wallets and business balance sheets, your government was still extremely generous to the failing so-called Rigel's Factor Bank and Probank. Public money was always enough for these two banks at the time of the collapse. You have accompanied the introduction of the property tax, with an argument that the additional burden on families is only EUR 2 or 3 per unit. But if it were only for that long, citizens would not have noticed it in spite of the crisis. Also because no one would encourage them to do so. That this is a much greater burden, accompanied by many mistakes, is shown by the opaque types of dissatisfied citizens in front of the offices of Gurs, Durs, administrative units and elsewhere. Dear Prime Minister of the Government: Have you been surprised by the numerous errors in the property tax assessment? Were government preparations to impose a property tax sufficient? Do you believe that the Government is strengthening the family environment by overburdening families and by overburdening the small economy with the business environment, stability, competitiveness and job creation? And lastly, I'm asking you: Do you believe that your real estate law, which is now in the Constitutional Court, has justly divided the burdens? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u30	Yeah, if I'm certain of anything, I'm sure the property tax is fair, given what our assets are, divided by burdens. Those who have more, more value, more tax will also be paid. Species on geodetic administrations and administrative units have been able to be practically eliminated. As early as Friday, you could see on TV that there is virtually no more crowding. It is, however, the fact that rather than regulating the data in the records, people were doing about 80% of these, dealing with how they had to regulate their permanent residence, so that their real estate tax would not be 0.5, but 0.15. Therefore, the Government's decision to equalise these two levels at this time. However, I must once again touch on the compensation for the use of building land, which also affects many people more unjustly than other citizens in another congregation. I mentioned earlier that a number of constitutional decisions have been taken to repeal individual parts or even general municipal decisions. I will not list all the congregations, but I have some here written: Lenart, Domžale, Lukovica, Hoče, Slivnica, Celje, Ptuj and so on. Here the Constitutional Court said that the mayors or municipal councils had adopted anti-constitutional decrees and that these things had to be corrected. But maybe one more important piece of information. There were also many complaints about tax decisions and more than half of the tax decisions relating to compensation for the use of building land. More than half of the complaints referred to this part. Right, even if we can't say for compensation that it was the right solution. True, it is probably in the eyes of many, given that it has been paid for many years, better or easier. But it is our duty to settle this fairly, and it is fair for all of Slovenia, for all of our citizens and citizens. The alternatives we had on the table when we were deciding why the property tax and why it wasn't left were, if we're honest, a crisis tax. But it would not be the right decision, according to our assessment, because we would have taxed such a very burdened work because it would have a nature of temporaryity and because it is ultimately not fair. For example, those young people who work for the first time would barely get a job, have nothing, no real estate, and would be taxed immediately extra on the crisis tax if we were already talking about young people. The next alternative – lowering costs. It is clear and fair to look at the budget and to find that if you want to replace EUR 400 million, things are very clear. It is necessary to decide if we are going to transfer individuals, which we will abolish: child allowances, maternity allowances, transfers to socially disadvantaged persons, lower pensions, lower wages or lay off in the public sector. It is not true that the compensation for the use of building land is an alternative to this. The Constitutional Court had already said in 1999 that this matter should be settled, and it is not right for each mayor to have his own order as to how much a company will be taxed. I told you before from 0.001% to 3%. Up to 3%. You can imagine how much less this company, which has now been taxed by 3%, will pay at a new tax rate in accordance with the property tax. It is our task, and we wanted to do so with the changes that the Government has adopted on Thursday, to make people as few problems as possible and to make the law so that it can be implemented in 2014, because everything else is significantly worse for the country and for the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Tanko has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much. You only answered one question and not exactly that. About the dose surprises you, not a word. There is no word that there is an excessive burden on families and small economies compared to some other forms of the economy. With regard to justice, however, the distinguished Prime Minister probably shows that this law is not fair, which is before the Constitutional Court. By correcting it with radical changes in ratios and also what you have stated about the effects of this law, the matter is not correct. This real estate law has only €200 million additional effects. 200 already those laws you're breaking, not 400. Even as far as you're concerned, whoever's making the decisions is not. The mayor doesn't take any decisions. They accept the councils of the congregation. You were a saint, and you might know that. However, this is not only about unfair doses, respected Prime Minister, but also about people paying taxes for land that is not owned or cannot use it. It is the land where public infrastructure such as roads is located, the transit station. That's what they say they own. These are lands that have been usurped mainly by black builders in Dolenjska and are now paying taxes. These are land used by companies, public companies, state-owned companies and here the records are not regulated. I am very interested in how you will achieve that these records will be regulated in this area, which is to say that those public companies using private land will not be prescribed, these matters will be settled, and how much it will cost. It's also one of the important things, not just residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you. You know why I'm talking about 400 million? Because I told you a whole lot of things earlier, why even the compensation for the use of building land, in a number of congregations, was proved to be unconstitutional in the Constitutional Court, and they had to change it. The only thing is, it's been established for a long time. I am sure that if we are going to collect signatures against compensation for the use of building land today, we will gather just as many. Eighty thousand. And unjustly, this compensation was unfairly distributed throughout Slovenia. That's what the data shows. I'll tell you again the case of taxation of the economy. From 0.001 % to 3 %. Listen also to these arguments and ask these people who are not so few who will pay less in accordance with the property tax. It is said that it is not appropriate to reintroduce a tax which should have been amended a few years earlier. Things have been going on since 2006 and people have been made to save everything or much at the last minute. I am sure that even if this part or the law had been withdrawn, records and things would have been regulated for the last month or so before sending tax decisions. However, because we wanted to check what you were asking me about the reliability of the data, we decided not to go directly with the tax decisions, but we sent out informational calculations so that people could see what this tax was bringing them and that they could regulate the data. But once again, most of the problems at this point are not about data editing in Gurs records, but 80% of all the problems that were gone, you can also check on geodetic administrations, it was about the so-called service, or how to reduce the tax from 0.5% to 0.15%. And since we would virtually completely destroy the impact of this higher level, we have decided to make this change to save people the way. Even so, all those who serve, not because of tax avoidance, but because it is the right thing to do, I call for them to continue to do so. It's our job, and we're gonna do it to clean up the records and settle them before the tax decisions go to people. And if necessary, people will also receive informational calculations before the tax ruling.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u35	Mr Tanko has a proposal to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I propose that a debate be held on the response of the President of the Government. There was no answer to the many questions raised. In fact, it's practically none of them. What was answered was incorrect, whether the address was wrong or a number wrong or something else. The distinguished President of the Government here spoke of a number of municipal decisions being repealed. Perhaps, but I'm not sure that a mere provision of the municipal decree has been repealed. And now you're criticizing this and you're citing it as one of the reasons for these things to be unified. But, Madam President of the Government, what if your marriage in the Constitutional Court is annulled? What will happen in this case? But neither the previous law nor the present law will apply, but the consequences will remain. What will the Government do in this case when it is so vehemently evident to local communities that they have the right of origin to arrange their compensation for the use of building land in their own way, according to their own criteria? It was their right. Now you are regulating a law that should be constitutionally consistent. And in the event of constitutional non-compliance, the Constitutional Court will annul parts or important parts of the law or the whole law — what then? Another thing is, Madam President of the Government, you have laid down this law in such a way as to make all this property, which is taxed on real estate, obtained in an illegal way or in an unexplained way. This is how the provisions are written. If anyone can't pay, there's an immediate filling on this property. It's impossible to afford it. You are not in a position to legalize and enforce this in the law on illegally acquired property in order to record the sealing which is governed by the law on the acquisition of property of unexplained origin. Only in real estate tax are there such rigid, firm provisions for someone to sit a state authority on property. You're not capable of doing this anywhere. However, in cases of criminal acts involving illegal property, there is much in this bank hole that is so acquired, even in economic work, and this government never writes down and nowhere so sad. That is why you cannot report that anything in this area has happened in this way. Mr President of the National Assembly, I propose that we hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 6 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. We turn to the fourth question raised by Mrs Kristina Valenčič, National Gazette [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the Government, ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In those days, much has already been said about the real estate tax. Even today, Madam President of the Government, you have further explained each segment, but I will also touch on this topic myself, as real estate tax is now the most current topic that touches every real estate owner in Slovenia. There are at least two reasons why we should talk about this again. First time. This coalition has accepted the real estate tax with full responsibility, and even today, when the first major problem and problems have proved to be in practice, it does not run away from them, it does not close its eyes, but, together with the government, is looking for appropriate solutions. And a second time. The large-scale visit to the geodetic authorities and administrative units will certainly require the adoption of appropriate measures to address the causes of the irregularities identified. At the same time, according to my assessment, it also points to another aspect which requires the proposed project to continue with relevant changes. It is that citizens and citizens have finally begun to regulate data and ownership of real estate that correspond to actual use. We need to be aware that this is one of the most extensive projects the progeny of which dates back to 2000. It is true, however, that no one before the government of Alenka Bratusek for such or other reasons had the courage to put the project into practice. Given the extent of irregularities and deficiencies related to the recording and valuation of real estates, citizens and citizens rightly wonder why the Government is not considering extending the deadlines for data regulation. There is no way to overlook that many citizens cannot regulate their own data on property rights in the land book, as they depend on the procedures that have been initiated and are not completed by other state authorities. That's why I'm asking you, Madam President of the Government: What scenarios do the Government have in place in the event that, despite all the measures taken, the records by the statutory deadline are not properly regulated? We have always advocated as few exceptions as possible and as uniform rates as possible in the Civil Gazette. In the current regulation, business real estate is exhibited in particular in the small and medium-sized enterprises segment. That's why I want to know: Does the government also consider changing the tax rate in this segment? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you, too. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I'm actually repeating myself a little bit, and I'm going to be a little bit more now, because there were three questions on this subject. Our task is to ensure that the data are adequate within the time limit foreseen. That is why it was also the government's decision to ensure the reallocation within the geodetic administration, because at the moment they say they do not need additional employees, but will arrange it within longer working hours. This is supposed to be until 6:30 p.m. between the week and Friday and 6:30 p.m. and Saturday, if necessary. I believe that we will be able to regulate the data to the extent that, in the vast majority of the data, the data will be regulated and tax decisions will not be a problem. I must, although they do not like to hear, mention once again the compensation for the use of the building land where I said it before, and I would like to point out once again that half of all complaints relating to the tax rate, if I may simplify, related to this. Half of the complaints received by the tax administration concerned compensation for the use of building land. I hope that this information tells us something in this Chamber: that not everything has been as it should have been. That's the first thing. We still agree that the data would be regulated in the deadlines prescribed. My commitment, however, is that tax decisions will not reach people until the data is regulated. I firmly believe that all real estate tax-free scenarios are worse for people and worse for the whole country. Even for the economy, if you want, because consumption will start to decline again. I'm not going to count the numbers again. You take the budget and you can simply calculate what EUR 400 million means. That's a whole year's worth. This means that if we now need to get this thing back in the middle of the year or lower expenditure, the measures should be even more radical. For once, we are confident that with the path we have drawn, we will be able to arrange the data, as I said. Of course, I also apologize from this city to all the citizens and citizens who have had so much to do and so much to do, but only the people, we are only the owners of our data. Hand to heart, we've been doing them all since we got home, I think this was the first informational calculation in 2010, of how valuable our property is. Today is four years from then and there are still problems with some data. We have reduced species by drafting a law where the government will uniform the rate for housing from 0.50 to 0.15 by reducing the value of construction plots to the value of building plots in the Law on mass valuation by the end of 2014. This has now been solved by two of the biggest problems we are facing. The Minister of Economy will hold a meeting with the Chamber of Commerce this week, listen to arguments, but personally I am still standing on what I said earlier: the average burden of the economy will not be greater. However, I am aware that the differences caused by the system in force before can also be huge. And they're huge. With large companies from Krka, Gorenje, Coroner, Taluma, Paloma, Steela from Stor, I don't know who I've been talking to, a large majority of them, and these are all exporters who have driven our economy, will pay less of this tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you. Mrs Kristina Valenčič has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much. In fact, it is not a matter of complementing the answer, I would like to thank you for the answer given, which I am particularly pleased with because of the two clear commitments you have made in your response. Firstly, until the records have been harmonised as far as possible, there will be no tax decisions. Secondly, information calculations will be further developed if necessary. And thirdly, we're still talking or talking to the economy. So once again, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you. I also thank the President of the Government for the answers given. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, will answer the question of Ljudmila Novak regarding the management and disposal of real estate which, as the subject of the insurance, have been transferred to the property of the banks in the majority state ownership. Mr. Chufer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for the question. What I would say is that, at the time of the crisis, banks have acquired quite a few properties and also shares in companies in their insurance, and now there is a need to find a way to resolve these matters. The main resolution instrument that the Government has made through the recapitalisation of banks on the one hand, then through the transfer of bad claims from banks to a bad bank where claims are transferred, a large part of the claims they have to cover real estate. And the third issue, which is very important, is that last December the National Assembly adopted a new Law on the Restructuring of Enterprises, which allows for faster debt, changes in bad claims and thus the release of insurance that is in the deposit with banks or with a bad bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u46	Citizens warn me that many of these properties are in very poor condition. Some are unfinished, some are completed, but no one is properly managing them, maintaining them. That's why I want to know: Have you also issued instructions on how to deal with such properties so that no further damage is caused? On the other hand, we know that apartments are very expensive in Slovenia, even more so during the economic crisis, and that many young families cannot afford their own apartment. So I'm wondering: Have you given any instructions on how to manage these properties, not to cause additional damage, and are you also thinking of some way of solving the housing problems of young families? Last but not least, we've settled these apartments or these loans when we settle a hole in state-owned banks or state-owned banks with the taxpayer's money. That's what I'm particularly interested in: How will these properties continue to be managed and are you thinking about such measures?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Here you are. You have a chance to complete your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u48	I would like to add my answer to this by explaining that, from a formal point of view, property is still owned by creditors and not by banks, that creditors are those who care for these properties in the function of a good master, as they should do with their own property. Very little, if any, property was actually seized by banks, because the enforcement process itself does not go in such a way that the bank gets its own property, but the bank can only sell it on market terms. Given that the real estate market is still relatively inactive, there is still a lot of transactions going on, little more than in the past, but not completely yet, it is expected that this property plant will actually take some time, although some of the first positive signals are already showing. We did not issue any specific instructions because, in fact, the owners of these properties, who took loans from banks for these properties, must act as good owners and banks as well. I don't think you should.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Do you have a suggestion? You don't. So we can keep going. We turn to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 21st meeting of the Assembly, namely, the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who will now answer Mr Franz Breznik's question regarding the Taiwanese loan reprogrammes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much for this question. What I think is very important is that when we look at the situation of the last five years when the banks actually found themselves with loans that the owners could not pay, and that they owned by another company, the key thing that has happened over the last five years is that banks have reprogrammed more or less of these loans, they have renewed but they have not contributed to the fact that companies are actually deliberating. What is important for us to do now since December, when the three success factors have come together to do this differently, is to make businesses deliberate, in order to continue in a order that is logical all over the world, first lose owners, then banks in so much work as is still necessary to function normally, start looking again for new markets, new customers, invest in development and truly make a contribution to economic growth and job creation. I would point out that in December, somehow three elements were somehow, I'll say, confronted. On the one hand, the transfer of claims from banks to bad banks was made at prices that I will say relatively low. On the other hand, the bad bank was further recapitalised, which means that it has the financial power to restructure the company. The banks have also been recapitalised, at least once, meaning that they have the financial power of restructuring, it is also important that the Company Restructuring Act has been established, both out-of-court and in-court, which has balanced the relationship between creditors and shareholders, because so far shareholders and owners have been over-insured in relation to creditors, and this in fact gives the basis that we can expect an accelerated period of debt repayment and restructuring of companies, which is significantly more important than debt reprogramming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. You have a chance to complete it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. In fact, my purpose was to reprogram so-called tycoon loans. At the end of January, we could see that the Bank's Debt Management Company approved a moratorium on principal repayment to ACH, including the so-called Proteys, which essentially controls the entire cash flow of shares and the so-called DZS Petan company, which owes more than EUR 150 million. These two companies were granted a moratorium by the Bank's Claims Management Company. Did she do the same for everyone else as you just said, that's what the essence of my question is, Minister-respected. The company for bank claims management does not have a supervisory board, it is supervised by the Ministry of Finance, and you are in fact in control of it. I could even tell you that you are the President of the Supervisory Board as the Minister of Finance of the Company for Bank Claims Management. What are the methodologies by which the two tycoons could have approved a moratorium on the principal's repayment? Just look at Mr. Petan's salary payments in 2009. In 2009, this man paid EUR 614 thousand in gross wages, according to official records I've been tracking. In 2010, he received over a million euro a year's gross salary. In 2011, when we were in a deep crisis, he paid 916 thousand euros from the company. As a supervisor, as an institution, as the Ministry of Finance, which oversees the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, I ask you: What methodology or whether the Bank Claims Management Company has followed the criteria also for other companies that have reached a bad bank? Why did she single out these two companies? I am interested in this as a member of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have a chance to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much for this additional question. First, let me explain that the Bank Claims Management Company has a single system, which means that the Governing Board consists of executive and non-executive directors. Non-executive directors shall perform the functions of the Supervisory Board as normally performed by the Supervisory Board in a two-tier system. The second thing I would say is that the procedures for how it approaches reprogramming and restructuring claims are, in good practice, made up of several steps. In the first step, there is usually a moratorium where several banks, standstill in English, are involved, is generally unconditional and actually buys creditors time to agree on how to proceed with each company without one of the banks actually triggering activities that can actually reduce the value of the assets held by banks. Within this standstill period, banks will then agree on how to proceed and how to do so in a controlled and manageable manner without reducing the value of assets for both banks and for the bad bank. This is a classic procedure that is used in most cases where good practice has not yet been fully developed in Slovenia. However, we are working to ensure that we are established as soon as possible and that we can function as normal as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Would you like to have a procedural proposal? Here's to the debate, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u56	Yeah, look, I didn't actually get the answer. I did not get an answer because this is a discriminatory way of dealing with these two tycoons. In particular, it is also an interesting ownership structure and in which companies are essentially involved. It is a matter of total exhaustion primarily of Terme Catež at the expense of strengthening, say, the role of the Diary and other newspaper companies owned by Mr Petan. However, what is most important for all small entrepreneurs, for all economic operators at this time, is that precisely these two tycoons in this moratorium have only a 1% interest rate on their loans. Are you aware of the extent to which we have committed ourselves, these people will be proprietaryly consolidated, they will continue to be owners of companies that have completely exhausted, and they have a 1 % interest rate in the meantime. Does this also apply to other companies and small craftsmen that have fallen during this time or have their claims been transferred to a bad bank? Is that true for everyone? That's the key to the question. On this basis, respectable, I would like to see a public debate, based on the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of reprogramming the so-called claims of the largest tycoons that have gone beyond some of the grounds when we can talk about some of the methodologies under consideration. And what happened in the end? We're saving the owners from a bad bank, not companies. And that's what's important. We left the concept of a bad bank. We're saving the biggest tycoons, but we're not saving companies. Companies will have a missed opportunity, they will fail for a long time, they lose a whole range of markets, they lose a whole range of competitive advantages they still have at the moment. And that's the whole point of what I'm asking today. I therefore demand once again, as I said, a public debate on this subject, why some people in our economic system are being discriminated against and have interest in the reprogramme of these loans at 1 % interest rate, which is unsustainable for all other people operating, small entrepreneurs and also those participating in the various companies transferred to a bad bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 6 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. The next question of Mrs Plevčak regarding the property tax will be again answered by the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much for this question. Given that the President of the Government has already negotiated extensively on the subject of real estate tax today, I understand that the questions are already absorbed and answered through her answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mrs Plevčak's answer? Here you go, Mrs. Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u60	Yes, thank you for your word. Within a month, since I asked my question to this day, the effect of the Real Estate Tax Act has shown its true face. It is not too hard to say that the tax is unfair and that it is a mistake that needs to be acknowledged and corrected. Most people have already received informational calculations and you are aware that most of them contain huge errors. And not just the mistakes that result from the inaction of individuals in the sense that they have not regulated the status of their properties, but so have they. I draw attention to the errors of the authorities, the uncoordinated records, the inability to regulate the status of some property despite years of effort. We have warned of this disorder in the Desus Group since the beginning. Some people are credited with foreign property, others are taxed repeatedly, and so on. The error is almost as much as the real estate. Information on how the government will act is different, so here I am asking you an additional question and I am putting into consideration, in particular, the constitutional detention of this law, to postpone the enforcement of this law, to first arrange and coordinate all records, to analyse the effects of this tax and then to impose it on people. Only the human resources support of Gurs will not help solve this problem. As more and more is said to eliminate the higher taxation of non-residential apartments, only a warning from our side. This measure is the only measure which otherwise taxes multi-housing owners, i.e. a richer population and again supports capital. Are you going to change the rate of tax on economic facilities to finally start our economy? There's something else to think about, Minister. The introduction of the crisis tax, as we proposed in DeSUS, but were rejected. Is this, in your opinion, an appropriate solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I think it's a complement to the answer, because there are no further questions. Mr. Minister, would you like to complete your response? You have no answer for the supplement. Thank you very much. Mrs. Plevčak does not require any debate. We continue with the question or answer to Mr Zvonk Lah's question about cadastral income. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Chufer, will be in charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you so much for asking. I would like to say that in 2012 there were around €64 million of the cadastral income tax, in 2013 about 48 and that in the proposal that was adopted, which we discussed for this year, we have developed a different methodology, which is limited by the number that more than 10% of the harmonisation cannot be made per year. Here I might add an additional explanation that the Government has also appointed an expert working group to review all elements relating to cadastral income. When she submits her report and looks at it at the Ministry of Finance, we will look again at matters relating to this source of revenue in the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! What you have now answered would be fine, but on one of the agricultural committees we have heard information that the government in the 2014 budget is expected to anticipate around 120 million cadastral revenues. That is why I am asking this question. Interestingly, this information was not known to me that only 48 million KD was collected in 2013. According to the new law, the collected KD was significantly less than it was under the old law. I would like to know that if what is foreseen in the budget is much different from what Minister Židan has also promised the gardeners at the Radgon Fair that the KD will increase by a maximum of 10 % in 2014 compared to 2013. So I'm going to be very careful with these bases, these calculation bases that are going to come in a day. The Government must confirm these calculation bases by the end of June at the latest in order to be valid for this year's calculation. That last calculation, which we know, brought about 150 million KDs, which would mean that KD fell in the fields and significantly increased in permanent crops, vineyards and orchards, a heavy burden for owners. By the way, those owners. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The vineyards are paid three times: through the property tax they will now, through the cadastral income and through the excise duty. [[…]] And that's a big tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have a chance to supplement your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u66	I'd like to thank you for the warning. We'll check to see if our numbers are on the spot.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We continue with our questions or answers. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak will answer Borut Ambrožič's question regarding the preparation of a strategy for quality ageing, solidarity and co-existence of generations in Slovenia. Here you go, Madam Minister, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you for the question, Mr Ambrožič. The data is in a way very serious as far as demographic imagery is concerned. If we look at Slovenia as the majority of European countries, it has achieved remarkable demographic development in recent decades. Since 1960, life expectancy has risen from 66.11 for men and 71.96 for women, 77 for men and 82.9 for women in 2012. According to Eurostat projections for Slovenia in 2030, life expectancy is projected for men 79.4 years and 85.1 years for women. If we also look at the number of live births, in 1979 there were about 30,000 births, in 2003, about 17,000. And as a result of the extension of life expectancy and of the small number of young people, the proportion of older people in the general population is significantly increasing, 7.8% in 1961, the proportion of older people in 2013 is 17.1%. Demographic changes are among those that are often not seen in the short term and have a remarkable impact on the medium and long term, as they profoundly change and transform our society. In particular, demographic changes should be kept in mind when we talk about all of our key social security systems, which are most sensitive and based primarily on intergenerational solidarity. This is primarily a social, pension and, of course, health system and therefore, the need for structural changes in these subsystems. In cooperation with various government and non-governmental and other organisations, we would like to draw up a strategy by the end of 2015 to respond to demographic change, which would offer appropriate answers on the basis of intergenerational solidarity and the national consensus on key steps. Above all, it is important that the red thread of this strategy, in addition to intergenerational solidarity, will also be active ageing. In 2013, so last year, Slovenia ran on the European Commission's call for co-financing of activities related to the development of national active ageing strategies. In this call for proposals, Slovenia has been chosen with some other countries, and therefore the knowledge acquired in the context of the activities covered by this call can also be usefully used in the formulation of our strategy. To sum up, we want to prepare this strategy by the end of 2015 and it is important that all government departments, as well as NGOs and others, participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Would you like a chance to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u70	I would just like to thank the Minister for a very encouraging response, as well as for information that has not been publicly known so far. My question has also been prompted by the fact that there is an online record that some form of strategy has been developed by 2010. If we have really been successful on this call, and even the resources to do so are guaranteed to produce by 2015, we can say that the new strategy is even better. As you yourself have determined, or your ministry, not in the short term, but also in the medium- and long-term demographic image of Slovenia calls for urgent changes to both pension legislation and labour legislation, as well as social protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members or to the first round of questions. The first in this round will ask Mr Zvonko Černač a question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, and to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! To the ministers responsible for finance and space, I have raised a question concerning the cumulative amount of property tax after informative calculations and the issue of the regulation of records, to which we have somehow alerted the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in the short time that this Real Estate Tax Act was adopted. At that time, we drew attention to the unregulated records, to the inadequacy of solutions, to the enormous increase in the burden on the less wealthy and to the reduction of the burden on those who, by paying the compensation for the use of the building land, did not have any problems, we had in mind mainly larger shopping centres and so on, i.e. those who had substantially reduced their compensation with the new tax. We've been rejected, the entire opposition has been questioned, and all the warnings have been given. The veto of the National Council was voted by Alenka Bratušek, and over 80,000 votes signed under the petition were heard. For this reason, the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with unrelated Members and both Members of the Nationality, has already submitted a constitutional assessment in mid-December with a proposal for priority treatment and temporary detention of this Property Tax Act. The Constitutional Court has granted this request, and the proceedings are under way. In the context of this procedure, these arguments, which we have highlighted, have clearly proved to be justified. The information calculations received by the debtors less than a month ago have shown that the data which was interpreted in Parliament in defending this law do not hold. Also, the information that the average tax on the average person with the average dwelling will increase by 3 euros per month, which was imposed by the prime minister, of course, is not true. These informational calculations have shown a completely different picture, which Member Marija Plevčak, who has not received an answer to her question today, has also pointed out in her question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. At the time, she pointed out these records and that, during a certain period, the importance of housing facilities, housing houses, large residential buildings, which the owners did not actually know about, had been established. This title also makes the most errors in these calculations. I ask the competent minister, not what we have already heard from the Prime Minister's mouth, that the financial impact is €407 million after these informational calculations, which is certainly information that needs to be thoroughly verified, because either it is not true or it is the part that is the inflow of the state budget, which amounts to 407 times 2. For according to the level of the notifications received by the debtors, it is impossible that this amount would be lower than what the Ministry had announced at the time of the entry into force of the law. That is why I would like to know the structure after the taxpayers, after the tax burdens.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Omerzel, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u74	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Member of the Commission, Mr Cernač, thank you for the question. Well, in conclusion, you have somehow come to the conclusion that this 407 million, the information you have is also EUR 407 million of information that we have after the first informational calculations by Gurs. However, if we go a step back, actually with the information calculation that showed this number, it has proved to be three areas that have caused problems at the operational level, where we as the Government have acted and taken the first steps. The largest amount of activity associated with the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia was related to residence. Here the various tax rates 0.15 and 0.5 actually showed problems and problems in dealing with the law in this way. Therefore, as a government, we have decided and put forward a proposal to introduce a uniform rate of 0.15 here and to close this distinction between residence and non-residency. I must say that my personal opinion in this case is in fact inclined to have this uniform tax rate. In particular, from the point of view of the real estate being real estate, and I think it must be taxed at the same rate, two apartments must be taxed at the same rate if one apartment is intended for some profitable activity and then this tax is charged elsewhere. The second part, which was related to the need for additional information from citizens and citizens, was linked to land for construction of buildings and building sites. Here we are aware that those lands, i.e. construction plots that are ready for building buildings, are actually their value higher, but given the current state of the records and according to the state of the municipalities, we have decided to simplify the evaluation model here as well. We are therefore talking about a single part of the evaluation for both categories, and on the other hand, we are going to take one step forward and help the municipalities in particular with additional instructions, in particular with additional instructions, how to arrange this record in the long term, so that we also regulate this part of the records in the long term. The very important part of the issue itself is also linked at the end to the data of Slovenians and Slovenes. The fact is that the calculations themselves, the input data themselves were already in the inventory were not quality enough and in fact we are so made that even Slovenians and Slovenes at the moment when these data are used for something that is at the end of the property tax calculation, we are ahead of the fact that this part of the records should be definitively regulated once in the country. As a result, this transitional period and the informational calculation should also be made so that everyone at home can see whether it is the data that is correct or whether any correction from this title should also be regulated. In view of this pressure, we have increased the scope of work on geodetic administrations, extended working hours, and on Saturdays, if necessary. We have also introduced information points in administrative units mainly because the pressure of residence itself has also been on administrative units, and thus, of course, we have provided all the necessary support to citizens and citizens to come to the right information, to help them fix their real estate data themselves, and to actually reach one really high-quality base where we will have all these data and records well-managed. One part of the problem, which was also opened from the past, is related to the land book, about 105 thousand objects, so plots are linked to the fact that the land book, because in fact the owners made the registration and not related to the real estate register, was a problem, but also in this area, the geodetic administration will actually, in all cases, settle these records somewhere in 10 days. That's how this segment is going to be arranged. And from this title it is assessed, so all of this problem, that somewhere in the ranking of €40 million, is the effect where less money will be collected from the property tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Chernač's answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you. I didn't get an answer to my question. I did not ask about the amendment of this law, which the Government quickly adopted last week, but I asked the minister, in particular the finance officer, about the financial effects on the basis of the information calculations received by the debtors. I ask what the financial impact is on the basis of Gurs' informational powers, by category of debtors. How many are there after 0.15, how many are there after 0.50, how many industrial facilities, how many energy facilities there are after 0,40 and so on. It is structured according to the debtors, what is the projected inflow on the basis of informational calculations in relation to what you explained to us in this national assembly at the end of last year, when the ruling coalition, Alenka Bratušek, confirmed this law and where it was said that the financial effects of this law were EUR 420 million. According to tens of thousands if not even hundreds of thousands of errors regarding the residence of 0.15, 0.50 it is impossible for the financial impact to be lower than you then assessed, or if you did not have the relevant records, which is certainly the responsibility of the government and not this Parliament. We need to get the data so we can talk about how to correct these mistakes. Surely you will not correct hundreds of thousands of mistakes by increasing the official hours, but first you need to combine different bases. Where now is Minister Virant, who came forward months ago with one minor case and said that these errors, which were hundreds of times smaller than these now, would be eliminated automatically through the regulation of the relevant records. And here in this area it is quite clear that databases need to be pooled, and then people will be able to regulate those specific cases that cannot be regulated without their cooperation. In this way, as is now the case, I fear that officials will be overwhelmed by unnecessary work that could be done in an automatic manner. That's why I want to know: What is the actual financial impact on the basis of informational calculations?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much for this supplementary question. Mr. Chufer, would you mind answering? Here you go, Minister Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much for this question or additional question. The last sentence you said about the actual impact has already been answered by the Prime Minister at the outset. I don't have my own structure, but we can look at it on occasion. But I would like to thank you for the recommendations, which way to solve things. As my colleague Omerzel has already said, we have already done these things at the previous government meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Would you like a chance to discuss it? Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I was counting on the Minister responsible for the space to add something, given that 90% of the time was left and that at least one part of the answer would be given to me in this additional attempt. Unfortunately, I did not, which is why it is right to open a debate on this issue in this national assembly. I think this debate is in place. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group last week, we have tabled a request to convene an urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where we have proposed that this committee call on the Government to cancel these miscalculations of Gurs, which, in our view, are wrong in over 90% of the cases. We propose that the Real Estate Tax Act be repealed and that a starting point be drawn for the re-establishment of the property tax regime. We have also proposed that a public presentation of the opinions should be convened on these starting points for the reform of the property tax regime. Given that the Committee on Finance is convened for this Friday, this urgent meeting, this public presentation could also be part of the discussion on the reply of both ministers, or not the reply of both ministers here today, which I propose to be held under Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure. In the context of this debate, it would be right to have a clear and unequivocal answer to these evasive answers that we have been listening to since the law was passed. First we heard about the financial effects of EUR 200 million, then we heard when we passed the law that the 420 million euro will be seized from this law, today it was said that the cumulative balance of EUR 407 million would be calculated. How, on what basis, if the majority of people received an unregulated 0,50 on non-residentiality, even though they live in these blocks? How can this be if, after the previous arrangement of schools, kindergartens, everything else that is public has not been taxed and it is new? How can this be done if the tax rates have increased substantially? Is this possible because the burden of the richest has indeed been reduced, and so does not hold Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek’s claim that the rich will pay more and less under this law? However, we are witnessing a concrete calculation for a specific trading centre, from EUR 152 000 of the previous refund to EUR 42 000 after the new one. Are these, therefore, the cases that speak of tax collection being of a much greater burden on the poor, especially those who have their own homes, which they have collected in one way or another, and who have not had any difficulties in paying taxes in the past? We would like clear answers to all these questions by Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Your proposal for a debate will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 6 March, in the framework of the votes. We turn to the next question raised by Mr Franz Puksic, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Method Dragoni.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister's team, welcome! Mr. Minister, the question that will be raised is that there will be no work done in this ministry, and, of course, I will ask you: What will you do to ensure that such a thing does not happen again, and what will you do to ensure that those who have done so also receive payment? I've already put it in writing, so I believe you've learned the basics of this question. This is an invitation to tender for innovative products that companies could apply for in the first place. This is the invitation to tender for the company of former Economic Minister Stepišnik, Emo – Orodjarna, which is why he also resigned. After the Minister's resignation, the call suddenly changed, and here I am wondering on the basis of what decision. Who was that god who commanded that the invitation to tender would change a few days before this deadline and extend to regional development agencies and researchers with the sixth degree of education? Initially, those with seven or more could apply for the invitation to tender. The tender weighs 30 million euros. The invitation to tender was opened following an amendment by 964 applicants. And you don't have to be. What happens? The call is cancelled because there were suspicions of corruption, as the preparation of the terms and conditions is expected to be attended by ladies from the agency whose men and their companies applied for the tender. Apparently, they learned something from the former minister. So these ladies were later eliminated, and the SPIRIT Public Agency Council decided to propose the discharge of Director Skalar to the government. That's probably not enough. I want to know: Why did they not exclude only companies which are at issue because of the participation of the said ladies? Why did not the notifiers send any notice of cancellation? Who will cover these tender costs for those companies that had the costs? Will these funds now be reclassified or reclassified or elsewhere? I still have some questions, but I'll ask them later. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much for the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u84	Dear Members and Members, Mr Puksic! On 23 October, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the SPIRIT Public Agency concluded a project co-financing agreement between 2013 and 2015. On 25 October 2013, SPIRIT announced a €30 million public invitation to companies. In implementing the invitation to tender, MGRT concluded that the four members of the expert committee were employed by SPIRIT, including the Chief of Procedure and the Deputy Head of Procedure, after subsequent expulsions, in one way or another, of interest to some of the applicants at a public invitation. Since those four persons were already involved in the preparation of the programme and the invitation to the public, it was not possible to exclude from the review and evaluation process only the applicants' applications to which those persons highlighted their interest in the withdrawal declarations. The involvement of the excluded members of the Commission in the preparation of the public invitation, all of whom have also worked intensively to determine the conditions for the selection of projects and the criteria for the selection of projects, is also the reason that the Ministry has not only decided to repeal the evaluation of all applications and to carry out the reassessment. Due to the fact that the above-mentioned persons were involved in the public invitation procedure from the very beginning of the preparation of the content of the programme on the basis of which the invitation was made, these persons were also 23. 1. re-appointment to the sub-committee for evaluation, which is totally unacceptable in view of the transparency of the procedure, and therefore, in view of the suspicion that the information should be withdrawn from the public tender and the suspicion that the whole public tender procedure was not transparent, due to the high risk of further legal implementation, it was necessary to withdraw the invitation from that contract and to invite SPIRIT to cancel the public invitation to undertakings. MGRT is aware that there are many applicants for public appeal funds who were not associated in any way with those persons at SPIRIT. Since it is not possible to determine individually which applicants, applicants and similar information have been made available, MGRT cannot ensure equal treatment of all notifiers. The Ministry, as a direct budgetary user, is committed to the management of control over the use of funds and is responsible for the allocation and use of funds on purpose in accordance with legislation. Therefore, it acted in accordance with the remedies available to it. In this case, it should also be said that the costs of preparing applications for a public invitation are not, in any case, subject to co-financing. The costs incurred by the implementation of each individual application shall be the costs of each individual applicant, since the notifier shall only obtain the right, on the basis of the co-financing notice, to co-finance the costs of its project in the context of a public invitation. In any event, all unselected applicants shall bear the costs themselves. The Ministry of Economic and Development and Technology, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will seek an alternative solution to ensure co-financing of development projects with the same group of beneficiaries. Given the large number of applications we conclude that the development of new products is being accelerated in Slovenia, for which additional funding will be sought. This will also take account of the economic comments that businesses need funds for their own participation in projects. In view of the irregularities identified in the implementation of the invitation, the SPIRIT Council of Public Agencies adopted a decision that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for reasons of objective responsibility, would propose the discharge of the Director. At the same time, the Ministry will take further steps to implement the professional, disciplinary responsibilities of the persons involved in the preparation of this call [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] were in conflict of interest. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, you have a chance to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you very much. What you, the other options were not clear, prepared what you read, of course, I agree with that. I agree with what you said, Minister, the applicant's costs are the applicant's costs. But the cost of an applicant working in an agency is untransparent, someone working by leaking information, and this reporter has nothing to do with it, and it's not his fault. And these people now need to be reimbursed or treated as it was. First time. Another time. You say that the Ministry will continue to take action on the determination of responsibility and so on. You know, crows unfortunately don't turn off their eyes many times, but if you know, at least they should be put on a desk a long time ago and taken to law enforcement. Unfortunately, there are invitations to tender in this country and invitations to tender are still being made and are adapting to someone. Just like you, otherwise you wouldn't know that former Minister Stepišnik was getting money from these calls every year. This is, of course, a criminal act, i.e. a responsibility, i think it is more necessary than just for the director. Where the money is and how it's gone, there's still a lot to look at. And what's going to happen with this innovative information. These were innovative projects, and many have now come to this data, and now it can happen that he will need it. Above all, I am interested in the future: Will you also support these subsidies? [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much. You were right, you need to look at these basic things, legal facts and frameworks. So that this story is not over, and I would like to assure you that, both within the Ministry and the whole government, we will make every effort to ensure the legality, transparency and transparency of procedures in the implementation of public regulations and, above all, we will commit all those involved to the absolute absence of any conflicts of interest when they participate in the preparation and implementation of calls for proposals themselves. As I said, there was a relatively large interest in the innovation segment. More than 900 deposits have come in. The call for equal content will be repeated and we will decide whether it will be grants or whether it will be returnable forms of promoting innovation in the business sector, which we are already preparing. It is important that the state budget has not been damaged, but we can say that certain damage has occurred to the notifiers. However, all applicants will have the opportunity to run again in these procedures, and if anyone finds that he has suffered any direct damage in terms of business secrets and the abuse of business secrets, all other remedies available to him will have to be used to enforce this damage. In the short term, we will now ensure that we put in place a new SPIRIT leadership and, in the next step, immediately thereafter, we also disciplinaryly remove the co-workers who have implemented unacceptable practices. However, criminal prosecution will have to be decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u90	Yes, thank you very much. That is exactly what I will do, and I will propose a debate on the Minister's response to this issue for two reasons. One of these reasons is for sure that this alarming issue, because it is almost a thousand young entrepreneurs with innovative ideas that have applied for this call, is too quickly suppressed under the carpet. The second reason is that if the debate is voted, this will be the next meeting of the National Assembly, at which time the Minister will have at least one month's work and will be able to say more about the strategy, the policy, the end of the mandate regarding subsidies and, as you said, the reimbursements. Personally, I think it's better to go to this second part, but not the grant, because it was mostly adapted and those, as you said before, who were both strong and strong, uncles and so on, who were at the trough, were left behind. However, a legal question is being raised, which you yourself have been talking about, the legal framework, what now that there has been such a call and they have made documentation for it, and now the conditions will change. And the third issue today was, I think, three questions to the President of the Government regarding the real estate tax, namely the disaster that was adopted by the coalition and, unfortunately, the government's imported policy, in a fast way rather than in a regular procedure. Of course, there is an immediate question as to whether this call will be made in terms of recoveries, although I have said that I agree with this more, but something has already happened, it was precisely because the government knows that the money from the real estate law will not and will not limit what has been adopted in other segments, that it will also cover the collapse of the real estate law in the economic field as disastrous as it has done in the infrastructure, which is not understandable. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal on Thursday, 6 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be raised by Mr Dragan Bosic to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers present, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, my question is a logical consequence of the debate that I had last in Parliament at the time of the adoption of the intervention law. We have talked about the measures needed to remedy the consequences of the disaster, which we have called a natural disaster. I have supported all these measures and I strongly wish that this should not ever happen again. One of the measures is to seek the assistance of the European Solidarity Fund set up by the European Union in 2002 following the catastrophic floods of that time. My question goes in the following direction, if this natural disaster is caused, it seems to be catalysed or indicated if I use this term, with global climate change, I am interested: What is our position on the orientation of the Warsaw International Fund or, as was popularly called in Warsaw, a compensation fund that would also address the consequences of climate change-related disasters? It's time-consuming. Last week, Chinese citizen Li Guixin sued his own country or government for failing to implement their fairly clear legislation on the prevention of environmental pollution, which makes normal life impossible for him as a citizen. Why am I talking about China? Because China, together with India, has responded very negatively to the Compensation Fund itself, explaining that this fund and, in general, the limitation of greenhouse gas emissions, although they could talk even more about many things, is hampering their economic development. This means that, on the one hand, we have citizens who are suing their own country, but on the other hand we, who suffer some of the consequences of this global population, are caused somewhere. I want to know: What is our position on this fund or on the assistance that might be required from this title? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have a chance to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Member, thank you for the question. Slovenia supported the Warsaw International Agreement, which is, to be said, intended for the underdeveloped countries, does not tange Slovenia or the European countries, i.e. the European Union countries. We have somehow committed ourselves to gathering solidarity in the event of new natural disasters in these third countries. So this is a collection mechanism, it's not a fund that has pre-detected money. Here's what I'd like to say. Europe and thus Slovenia are following the objective at this time. And this goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 % and 85% in Europe by 2050, as we are following that there should not be an increase in temperature by more than 2 degrees. I believe we're going the right way right now. But what causes us discomfort in Europe is as follows. At this point, it is estimated that the European Union is, therefore, producing 10% of global greenhouse gases somewhere in the European Union. In 2050, if we follow this stage of development, we will only produce 5% more. So Europe cannot solve climate change on its own, which is why international action is so important and why Europe is so active in this international work. Allow me, however, to tell you one piece of information that you are probably familiar with, which is that the current assessment is that climate change at the annual and European Union level is already causing us 80 to 90 billion euros of damage per year. If we are not sufficiently effective in action by 2050, it is the European Union's assessment that the annual cost will be already €250 billion at European Union level. It is not direct to Slovenia's calculation, but if we go to this 0.4%, as far as we represent within GDP, then we might be able to project a little harshly that up to €400 million in Slovenia is already causing damage due to climate change, which we are witnessing, if we are not effective by 2050, this damage will be expected up to €1 billion per year. From the back, however, the cost of prevention or adaptation is six times lower. Where are we right now in Slovenia? At the moment, we do not yet have a strategy for adapting to climate change. She was working years ago. It was done by that famous office that was later abolished. At this point, our ambition this year is such that we reach at least an action programme to adapt to climate change, which will double. One is adaptation, the other is prevention. On the inside, we are already funding €10 million of climate fund measures already this year, which are directly intended to reduce contamination with small dust particles. However, the effect of these measures is also on greenhouse gases. 25% of this money will be invested in transport, 75% in efficient energy use, i.e. in green energy rehabilitation or what is so important, better isolation both in public and private buildings. Here is also relatively good news that the competent ministry, this is the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space currently planning within the new cohesion, I think, 200 million euros. However, when I say that we have €10 million of the climate fund available this year, I would like to say that this is a multiplier. Through the Climate Fund, the country is only part of those who finance or co-finance a similar amount of money that attracts local communities and then doubles those who have an interest, these are citizens and citizens. So the investment capacity is probably €40 million this year. However, we expect this money to increase rapidly as the climate fund is filled with the remaining CO2 coupons at European level. This remainder is because the economy is still, if it is not in recession, because it is not in any large activity, these CO2 coupons are too low at this point and the price is low. However, in a very timely time, these coupons, their price can be increased by four or six times or possibly even eight times, and then the amount of money we have available in Slovenia will be significantly higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Bosic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u96	Yes, Vice President, supplemental. I'm happy with what I hear, and there's nothing to argue with. The information you gave holds. It is also true that the fund is intended for the so-called underdeveloped. But I am interested in some of our pro-activities in this sense of the culprit and then in compensation. Because, look, the ones I talked about earlier, they avoided responsibilities in Warsaw. Wherever they felt responsible, they replaced that word with words, contributions or contributions. I looked at the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, it is a wonderful expression: obey. So you're just giving in to the one that you're actually sort of climateically destroying. I'm not just talking about Slovenia. Remember the first refugees from Kiribati. It's a new term. That is why I am interested in our position, in fact our view of some of the activities below. So that's what these attitudes are. You mentioned your own show coupons. And here I found another expression: discharge. It's just forgiveness for someone who has the money to forgive if we know how much these coupons are worth. You can also be bought by the polluter. It bothers me that this is then offered advice. I'm talking about the underdeveloped. Then they are offered advice in terms of the green breakthrough of this, this and this. So I'm not helping you, but I'm teaching you to pollute even less, which you don't do in the first place, and I'm gonna be very cheap on your coupons. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] That's what I'm interested in. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to complete your response? Here you go, Minister Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you for the additional question, Mr Member. I am also aware of occasional hypocrisy to teach third countries that are fundamentally poor, ecologically. At this point and so little pollution is being achieved, and then it is these countries that are also receiving industrialisation from developed parts of Europe with technologies that are already banned here. I must say that even in this area, at least part of the trend is changing. France may be an example of this. France's burned. Unlike Germany, France has gone into deindustrialisation and has moved companies abroad and is now moving them back as far as possible because they represent jobs in the final stage. In general, when dealing with third countries, we must demand the same or the same standards as we do. This is not what we are doing right now, and discussions are ongoing, but they are not very intense at this point. However, I fully agree that when we observe harmful phenomena in nature protection, the principle must always apply that the polluter pays what he has polluted. I'm afraid that's not the case at this point. That is also why we have so many old burdens in this country and also in other countries of old or new Europe, and we will have to remedy this in the next period. But there's something else you need to be aware of. Such behaviour also means the expression of green tax reform. When we think about green tax reform, however, the competent ministry always encounters other interests. These interests are why you are now raising taxes because the green tax reform is taxing and then there will be fewer jobs. But the opposite is the next answer. Even when we look at new investments, we don't have the right to this cost, the collateral cost, which is the damage to the nature that needs to be saved, to the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We continue with the next question raised by Mr Robert Hrovat. on behalf of Minister of Defence Roman Jakić, which is today an excusable percentage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want the best possible results for Minister Jakić as the leader of the Paralympic team in Sochi. But I do wish that when he comes back to answer my question today, he will answer me orally. In recent weeks, volunteer firefighters have collected the status of heroes throughout Slovenia. In general, all the opinions we read and hear about all the paramedics who have contributed in any way to the last capture are marked by heroes, and I think that's the right thing to do. Their sacrificial work remains undetected, and it is time for us who adopt legislation to finally regulate their status. I'm talking about the status of volunteer paramedics of all kinds who could arrange for them to go to interventions where they need them. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, there was a desire to include the Fire Action Act in the proposal for an intervention law. Unfortunately, we have encountered disapproval from the coalition and, at the latest, it has been shown in practice that the status of a volunteer firefighter has not been sufficiently regulated. They also point out that the absence of voluntary firefighters from work is a common problem. Several developments have been made in the past, and this has to be acknowledged, and this has changed several times in this area. But right now, the employer can only make 20% of the payback for the loss of income, and this is the main stumbling block in the very absence of work. I don't think that's enough. The amendment of the legislation must go in the direction of the motivational moment for the employer. Since a number of other voluntary rescue services are included in the protection and rescue system, and not only voluntary firefighters, I suggest that the status or relationship between the employer and the lifeguard should also be arranged for mountain rescue workers, rescue workers, cave rescue workers, rescue guides and others. Firefighters and other paramedics help in the event of fires, traffic accidents, accidents in the workplace and in the home, especially in the event of natural disasters. And it's all voluntary. Therefore, Minister, I ask: When and how will you prepare an amendment to the Fire and Protection Laws against Natural and Other Accidents, by which we will be able to definitively regulate the status of volunteer firefighters and other rescue workers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much for your question. However, we continue with Mrs Ivo Dimic, who will raise the question to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. To give to the Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary, mag. Dejan Židan, legislation on the regulation and disposal of waste water among other obligations imposes on households the primary obligation to connect to a public sewage network linked to a central treatment plant. In the absence of a public sewage network, households must collect waste water in an unprecise tridirectional well or biological cleaning plant of an appropriate size. For the time being, it is possible to clean waste water even through streaming wells, but in the future it will be necessary to replace them or to install appropriate cleaning appliances in them. In most cases these will be small cleaning plants that will clean the waste water of one household. The costs of purchasing and installing small cleaning facilities will be borne by the owners of existing residential, agricultural and production facilities and will amount to between a few hundred and several thousand euros for each household. The costs of maintenance and cleaning of cleaning facilities will also be borne by the owners of the facilities. In the face of the current economic crisis and social distress, a host of all these costs will simply not be able to manage. In addition, owners of facilities that are obliged to install cleaning facilities will be significantly more burdened in financial terms than owners of facilities that have the possibility of connecting to a public sewage network. In this way, citizens will also be in a fundamentally unequal situation in the area of the cost of decommissioning of waste water. Mr. Minister, I ask you: Is the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment already preparing measures to provide and enable owners of facilities that do not have the possibility of joining the public sewage network, buying and installing cleaning facilities such as state subsidies or any other type of financial assistance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment currently does not provide for subsidisation of small municipal cleaning plants at national level, but rather, in line with the fact that the separation and cleaning of municipal waste water is a compulsory public service, leaving the implementation of such measures to individual municipalities. As part of the operational programme for the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also published on the Internet, recommendations on technologically appropriate and economically acceptable solutions for the removal and treatment of waste water on small municipal treatment plants have also been made and published, which clearly provide guidance for municipalities on the active role in this area. One of the proposed activities for municipalities is also the provision of financial assistance or subsidies on their part to promote the operation of small municipal cleaning plants in areas not equipped with public sewage. The Annex to the Recommendation is also a sample of the invitation to tender for the co-financing of small municipal cleaning plants. Some congregations have already taken an active approach to subsidizing the construction of small utility cleaning facilities, according to our conduct. The Eco Fund also credits investment in the purchase and construction of small municipal cleaning facilities in the context of the favourable lending of citizens' environmental investments. Currently, there is a public call for crediting the environmental investments of citizens 49OB13, one of the purposes for which favourable credit is available for investments to be made in the Republic of Slovenia, including investments for the purchase and construction of small ones, i.e. individual or group sewage treatment plants for municipal waste water up to 25 population units, as well as for investments to connect existing facilities to the public sewage network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thanks again. Mr. Minister, I ask you: How can the purchase of a small cleaning plant or the payment of a connection to a public sewage network be required from the owners of facilities with disabilities, are pensioners with the lowest pension or are unemployed, receive cash social assistance, and families who barely provide child support and education? All of these actually live below the poverty threshold and do not have the money for the most urgent cost of living. Where should these taxpayers receive the necessary money for the expenditure imposed by the legislation of the State or the local community? We need to know that it costs between EUR 1,000 and EUR 3 000, an individual trailer, depending on the municipality and the number of trailers, and that the cleaning equipment costs more than EUR 3 000. In fact, people live below the threshold of poverty and practically with their income from hand to mouth. At 400 or 500 euros, I don't think they'll be able to afford that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have a chance to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u108	Your Honor, I share your concern. It is true that, at this point, the country is running major drinking water projects and dirty water treatment projects across the country, with its own and, in particular, the European Environment Cohesion Fund. The fact is that in the next financial perspective there will also be an absolute advantage of money, which will be significantly less than it is now, to build missing water systems in Slovenia and to build as many cleaning plants as possible where they are lacking. However, so far these small cleaning plants have not been built from environmental cohesion, but, so I understand, this has also been one of the original tasks of the municipalities, the local communities, which sometimes can do it, but sometimes not, and it is possible to find other ways. The path that could still be discussed is so-called regional cohesion, and perhaps this is the right way to seek solutions for those local communities that may not be able to co-finance or finance individual cleaning facilities due to poverty or under-income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mr Samo Bevk, Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! On Monday, after a long-term regular procedure, and with the branch of the State Council, we were not spared, we passed an energy law. With the adoption of the Energy Law, energy cards have become a fact and a necessity for citizens who sell or sell their properties. However, in the third reading, we have adopted a one-year moratorium on sanctions. I wonder whether, during this period, you are planning any legal change that will be more favourable for real estate owners, but still in accordance with European legislation that we need to transpose into our legal order. We are not critical in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats to the Institute of Energy Cards. We are also looking at the energy card from the point of view of the consumer, i.e. the buyer or tenant of the apartment, who will be able to know before the deal is concluded how much real estate costs he will have from an energy point of view, and there is no rational energy use aspect here. However, I am concerned that the implementation of the energy card itself will be problematic mainly from a cost perspective for citizens. I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a decision establishing the highest price for the issue of an energy card. However, let's be honest, this does not set a price, as indirect costs for the production of an energy card such as travel costs, additional work due to incomplete documentation and the cost of obtaining documents for the production of an energy card are not necessarily necessary. However, we all know that the indirect costs listed are those that will be able to instill the cost of producing an energy card. That's why I'm asking Minister Sam Omerzel: Does the Government plan any legal change in 2014 regarding energy cards, which will be more favourable for real estate owners? In advance, Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, please, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u112	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Mr Member, thank you for the question. The energy marriage really finally experienced what it was meant to do. I must also say by the profession that we have received quite some feedback to be satisfied with the work done. And from just over 500 articles, one important chapter is also the energy card, which in some ways received very high media attention. It should be stressed that the energy card itself is not new in Slovenia. We have known the energy card in Slovenia since 2006. It is true, however, that we are introducing some novelty with the new energy law on this subject. First of all, I would like to highlight those non-realitys or manipulations that have occurred in the energy card media. The biggest manipulation of the non-reality was that the price of the energy card would be EUR 500. That's not true. I'll also explain these last steps of the government later. Then one of the major manipulations occurring in the public was also linked to the obligation of an energy card. You yourself have mentioned that the energy card is not mandatory for everyone, and I stress this once again, it is important because there was information in the public that everyone would now have to have an energy card. In fact, an energy card is needed when we sell property or rent it for more than a year. For the energy card itself, it is particularly important to stress from the point of view of Europe's energy policy that I personally, as well as as as the secretary and also as my team at the Directorate, believe in the content and purpose of the energy card. Effective energy use is one of the most important areas of European energy. I am convinced that awareness in this area, not just Slovenia, is of paramount importance to the whole of Europe. The Energy Card is one of the mechanisms where we want to gradually regulate this area, because, according to some estimates at Europe's level, around one third of the energy used for heating is released without the need for air, which is from the point of view of wastefulness or, on the other hand, of efficient energy use and from the ecological point of view, something that Europe does not want in the long term. When we look at the numbers themselves, there's a huge, huge amount of energy that could actually be saved and used for other purposes because of the efficient use of energy. In this view, the purpose of the Energy Card is to raise awareness, both in the field of energy efficiency and in the environmental field. I think it's a good story, I believe in it, and sooner or later we have to bite the Slovenians in this apple. Virtually the whole of Europe knows the energy card, uses it, and I think it is right that we use it in Slovenia as well. As far as prices are concerned, the prices were those that were the most upsetting to the Slovenian public and the costs that were incurred were manipulations around this. That is why we have decided to act quickly on the Government. In a way, what you are asking is what we have already done, so with the conclusion that you mentioned, we actually wanted to prevent, especially in this initial turbulent time, when this actual business in the field of energy cards and this market is starting to be set up. It is always so when a new matter comes to market, we have turbulence at the beginning and, of course, prices are also fluctuating. In particular, we wanted to prevent the manipulation and exploitation of this initial fluctuation on the market, so that we actually defined the prices with these conclusions. If we look at the average number that Slovenians are most interested in. We wanted to achieve that we actually set the top price of the energy card. If we go specifically to numbers, we have a table that actually defines in detail, given how many apartments are located in the apartment building, then the price that is set is also the price. If we go to one average, we wanted to achieve that the actual price of the energy card would not exceed one euro per square. If we look at an apartment of 60 square meters, on average this would mean that this price will be 60 euro or less after the apartment, which we are assessing in some way that, given the value of the property and in some ways, this as a real estate investment would be positive and thus would be acceptable to the owners of the apartments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr Bevk's answer? Here you go, Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you, too, Mr Minister, for his reply. In its request for re-decision on the energy law, the National Council stated, inter alia, that the price of the energy card, for example in the UK, is 10 times lower than the price of the energy card in Slovenia. That's why I want to know: Do you perhaps have an overview of individual European Union countries and energy card prices? The price is not set anywhere. The price of the energy card, as it is said, determines the market. On the basis of supply and demand, it is logical that, if a low supply or number of licensed, independent professionals, and a high demand for services, the price of the energy card will also be higher, of course, because there will be no competition. I want to know: Does the Government intend to increase the issue of licences to independent experts and thus make the market adjust the price of the energy card and thus lower the price? At the same time, I am also wondering what it will be like to negotiate licensed experts secretly. Such an arrangement is not lawful. So I wonder: Will the government control this and prevent any negotiations? And also about the price of not being higher than one euro per square meter, I'm interested in: If he wants only one owner of an energy card in one apartment block, then what will be the price per square meter, assuming that, say, the apartment is 50 square meters? Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u116	Dear Member, thank you very much for the additional question. This energy card is a really interesting area, and I can see that there are quite a few that are interesting. With EZ-1, the energy law was in the stage when it was written, we wanted to achieve just that we have an open market and that the market should do its job. At that time, we had about 150 legal stakeholders who showed interest in certification for the issue of energy cards. The Ministry’s assessment of the profession was that 150 legal persons in the Republic of Slovenia are critical mass, which should ensure the normal functioning of the market and thus ensure that what is best for the consumer is the best price. On the other hand, we wanted to see that the energy card is a document that is not a bureaucratic paper that is not a bureaucratic dead letter on paper, but that this energy card is really one quality indicator and that the right parameters are how we have an energy-efficient object. I still believe that this will also happen, that this market will define its own and that we will come into the ranking of prices that the Government has actually defined last Thursday with the decision you are mentioning. We also made a comparison as far as the outside world is concerned. What the State Council mentioned was, in fact, referring to the average price of England at 40 pounds, 42 pounds, if I recall correctly, was a number that was in the ranking of what we in fact accepted in the Government if we look at the average apartment in Slovenia. However, when they mentioned differences in factors, they actually compared wrong values. It was still manipulated by numbers between 300 and 500 euros, which is not true. As far as the market is concerned, regardless of the fact that we have now defined the ceilings on energy cards with this regulation in the Government, I still believe that the market will do its part in relation to travel costs. I am sure that those who will need an energy card, for example, if an apartment in Ljubljana, would rather decide for an operator in Ljubljana where there will be no travel costs than for someone from Prekmur to come and make this energy card in Ljubljana. In residential, multi-housing buildings, if we have a case of selling an apartment or renting it, here we have actually taken the view that the energy card is effective and gives the right parameters from each other if we are looking at the entire facility. And then it's interesting that the entire facility has an energy card. In this case, resources will be drawn from the housing fund to produce this energy card for the entire building, so that this cost does not fall to just one apartment and then we come back to this rank, which we talked about not to exceed one euro after [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] a square metre. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Minister of Culture of Dr Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I will, of course, ask about the current topic today, whether archival material or in conjunction with the novel adopted, and the referendum initiative that we have tabled in our Group. It is known that much documentary and archival material was destroyed before and shortly after the election of the first democratically elected government. That's why I'm asking you: Do you have any estimate of how much of this archive has been destroyed or how much has been preserved? Let me also read the position of Master Igor Omarze, who estimates that most of the Slovenian udbov material has been destroyed, and no one was responsible for this genocide over the archival documentation. He adds that on 7 March 1990, Ivan Eržen, the last chief of the Slovenian secret political police and one of the main organizers of the JBTZ process, recalled this, ordered the mass destruction of the udbov material. The deadline was until 1 April 1990, which is important if we know it was the April 8th elections. On 7 May 1990, the team of the weekly Mladina captured one of the many destructive documentation convoys before entering the Kolitcheva Paperhouse. I would like to ask you, in view of the discussion in our parliamentary group, before we invited you or suggested that you initiate proceedings against the culprits for destruction: Did you do it or are you planning to do it?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u120	Dear Member, honourable Members, thank you very much for your question and very much welcome! It is interesting that in all the current debates on the amendment of the law and on the construction of the former State Security Service, which was created before 17 May 1990, we are always reopening so many strangers. We do not know how much material is actually preserved to answer such fundamental questions as that which, honourable Member, have been asked. And we really don't know how much materials have been destroyed today. But we do know – also thanks to the referendum initiative – today a number of things more. The fact is, of course, that the archive of the Republic of Slovenia today holds 80,000 running metres of the entire archive material. Food of this kind is 403.1 meters of liquid material from the State Security Service, which relates to various areas. Three quarters of this material relates to the operation of the secret service of the single-partner system, as you know, it brought together elements of the secret political police and the intelligence and security service. In a study of the destruction of this material, we can find two. This job seemed very autonomous. In this regard, for example, we have come to the conclusion that this material has been destroyed periodically. Of course, we are speaking today in the context of, above all, the self-sustaining processes and what was destroyed at that time. However, I must say the information provided by the excellent acquaintance of this area, Mrs Ljuba Dornik Šubej, that, for example, in 1967, as many as two thirds of the archive material was destroyed in the Republic State Security Service. So, 1967. However, the second destruction took place at the end of 1989 and at the beginning of 1990. Why does this question puzzle me in some way? How has the fact that no government, not the left and the right, despite the fact that the archives were several times a political theme, raised a clear question of responsibility for this destruction? In fact, thanks to the referendum initiative, we will do this very seriously. We have taken seriously the first step on Friday, when some very specific documents were published that provide the basic records, what the archives of the Republic of Slovenia include regarding the State Security Service. What am I talking about? To a certain extent, the reconstruction of the archival material of the former State Security Service is, however, possible mainly on the basis of preserved original records such as records, records of material archives and records of registered ongoing cases. These records exist, so I believe that in a very short time we will reach not only estimates, but enough accurate data as to how much material has been destroyed. Apparently, material from the internal problem was destroyed in 1989, 1990. So the material related to the opposition in the single-partner system. Of these, about four-fifths of all open records of supervised persons and records of employees, employees and resources of the State Security Service, which was largely produced between 1975 and 1990, are certainly included. This allows us to find out something on the website of the published records: of the approximately 17,000 controlled files, only 4 thousand files have been kept in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia today. This shows you and shows us publicly published material. I believe that most of this material is not destroyed or, I will say, I believe it is not lost. According to the nature of the materials, copies are certainly also related to the operation of the Federal Secret Service held in the Belgrade archive, to which the Republic of Slovenia is also entitled under an agreement on matters of succession after the former SFRJ. I'll tell you more about it and answer your last question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you. Since the law or law now in force and in force since 2006, a great deal of material, a great deal of books, a lot of debates and debates have actually been published on this subject. Books that talked about the Udba, the way it works and so on, also about the privileges of former officials of the former system and so on. Without an open archive, it would be impossible for such books to be produced. If that actually happened at the beginning of this country, but I say, anytime, because it's not too late, it's better once than never. And our government, you can't tell us that, we tried to keep these things open, so we also adopted a law in 2006. If we had this, we might not have had the first and then the second shame, when the president of our country gave a high medal to a widower who had been persecuting priests for 15 years after the war, and the next president of the Republic again gave a medal to the last head of the Slovenian Udba. If we had this information that researchers are coming to, that is, the documents that clearly show what specific people have done, who have ordered something, and who has done something directly, these things probably wouldn't happen to us. You have already mentioned that the text of the Judgment is now being published. That's right. Let us leave these documents to learn new things or even hear more criticisms than are the praises of this publication. It's like the victims and the executioners and stuff. You publish this on the basis of the law in force in 2006. What would that mean if the amendment to the law you drafted and adopted were already in force? Would it be possible to publish documents as you now publish them?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much for the additional question. I have to say one thing about this first. I believe we'll be able to clear up our half-time history. You know that attempts have already been made to allow employees of the Archives of Slovenia, as well as a police officer who is a member of the archival commission, Mr Paul Jamnik, to have access to archives held by the Belgrade archive in 2013 and this role has been rejected. I have to make it very clear that we have renewed the role and that in June of this year six experts from the Slovenian archive will visit the Belgrade archives and try to construct key documents, find out which ones are being fed, that we will know what we can count on and where our history can also be properly explored and also presented to the public. Personally, I must make it very public that, on the basis of the material already published, and also on the basis of some other indications, we are considering the possibility of criminalising the destruction of archival materials in 1990, to which no government team has joined in the past 25 years. In the coming days, certainly before the signature and the signatures collected for the referendum, we will transmit the information to the criminal authorities responsible for this and ask them to give priority to the matter and to keep us informed of how their work is going. Of course, we want to inform the public about this. Your question of whether the novel would make it more difficult to publish archival material on the Internet can be said to be the opposite. By publishing on the Internet we only have significant problems under the 2006 law, because the set of sensitive personal data is larger because among sensitive personal data is also the political belief of party membership, the philosophical belief of union membership. This information after the novel is no longer available than that which would allow for the closure of the material, and by anonymisation it is suddenly available to us for public publication a much wider range of materials. We believe that when the novel comes into force, we will be able to systematically publish the works of the Udba on the website. But we're taking her in a systematic fashion right now. So at the weekly level, new materials will be added. Here, of course, you must be aware that at this time we are limited to materials that do not have sensitive personal data, but we are confident that by publishing some basic documents, such as records that have not been relevant to date. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Here you go. You have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a debate on the Minister's response. While I would very much like to believe that this publication is not only a pyar action now before the referendum campaign or in fear of what will happen at the referendum. Public opinion polls also show that archives must be open and most people in this country support this, which is right. Therefore, I think that the debate on the Minister's response can only benefit us.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided on Thursday, 6. Marca, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be raised by Dr. Vinko Gorenak to the Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I'll just tie myself to the forerunner, Mrs. Jeraeva. And if I go from good to bad, Minister, then I can commend what you said you were sending to Belgrade a group of people, six or as many as could bring useful information from there. All I want is for this group to be balanced. I wouldn't be interested in anything else. Otherwise, I can wish you and this group a successful job for a fundamental reason, because so far we have not had the data to bring about any destruction in Belgrade. And you are right here that this is probably the point where we could get a lot of things, and it would be a lot of clarification in Slovenia if we could get to these archives. But with those people who were there, I was already talking, and I know that this group is going to have a hard time. That's for sure. Now for what I don't agree with. Look, Mr. Minister, it doesn't make any sense, I've also got an answer to the question today – and what can I find out, actually? Regardless of governments, left or right, the 2006 law is not respected to date. I don't know if we're aware of that. We still have one liquid meter of material that's on Owl and not accessible to the public. I'm sorry. I can't blame your government or your government right now, and the fact is that someone is extremely, extremely opposed to the fact that the material is coming to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. What I do not agree with you, of course, and I do not agree with you, but what you are saying is that the archives will now be more open if this law is passed. Look, you're right, Minister, but let's step in front of the camera for once and tell the whole truth: And that's for five or six restrictions. Today there are 11 restrictions, after the new one there will be 5. Now, this is six restrictions you've lifted, but you've removed minor restrictions and eliminated them for whom? That's what we have to ask ourselves. For those less important things, you've removed those restrictions, as we said, but you've imposed six restrictions on those you should never have imposed. You've imposed six restrictions on criminals, let's say, domestically. Today, officials of the State Security Service or the Udba are not protected by anything. That's what the 2006 law says. But you have introduced — and I will add up these limits — six restrictions and therefore you have done nothing for the victims. You really got the victims away, those six restrictions, but for, say, the bad guys or the criminals, you imposed six restrictions. That's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Here you are. You have a chance to answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u130	Mr Gorenak had a nice discussion, but he didn't ask the question. In a way, what he asked me in writing was that the documentary material of the former State Security Service was made before 17. 5. 1990, completely dedicated to the archive, and he said it was one meter. I didn't see any other questions. There have been allegations, some have been praised, so it is difficult for me to comment very specifically. We know that since 2008, there have been agreements, several versions of these agreements between the Owl and the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia on the transfer of this material. The first of 2008 was signed by Archiva Matevž Košir and Andrej Rupnik, and this is, of course, some very unfortunate arrangement. We will not argue that it was created in the time of Janša's first government and that this government does not want to have anything to do with it. However, the unfortunate stage in which this material was closed until 2044 and was marked "secret", which is, of course, inconsistent with the then applicable law. The second agreement signed by Dr Dragan Matič and Deputy Director Stana Štemberger has put into effect the end of the 2008 agreement as regards confidentiality. The 2013 Agreement, signed by Jože Dežman and Dr Damir Črnčec, regulates the transfer of the individual documents remaining in the case. It should be noted that the last major acquisition of this material was carried out 7. 2. 2013 At that time, four different documents, a total of 3.3 running meters and 8.2 running meters of various publications from the former State Security Service Library, were handed over to the archive of the Republic of Slovenia. The written agreement between the Director of the Archives and the Director of the Owl states that it must be no later than 30. 6. 2014 The archive of the Republic of Slovenia is completely dedicated to all the material, that is also the one running meter that is still on Owl. The oral agreement with which the two directors introduced me is that this material will be delivered by 15 March this year. And, of course, I am in some way very grateful to the initiators of the referendum for this initiative, if nothing else, although it obviously does not correspond to some of the facts brought by the novels and which speak of the fact that the archives are opening up and that they are actually more open than ever, that citizens today can go to the website and find out from some key documents how the State Security Service once worked, and that this will also be possible in the future on a weekly basis, then of course I must also thank the initiators for triggering some of the things that we did in the past. One is that Owl will hand over all the material that he still keeps. Secondly, what is very important is the access of our experts to the Belgrade archives. The third, which is very important, is, however, the systematic research of the historical history of this archive, of this part of our history, with key documents to determine how those key truths about the functioning of the State Security Service, which are important for the functioning of this country today and the understanding of our past history, are the task that awaits us. I am confident that also by publicly publishing these materials, by not having a veil of mystery here and that there will be no longer any Orwell assumption of who can own an interpretation of our history, we will achieve that we will also encourage researchers in the future to do this work systematically, to do this work thoroughly, and to finally present to all the Slovenians some basic truths about our half-time history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u132	Yeah, you know, I'm just gonna say those things. Look, it was said earlier that Mr. Ivan Erzen, I know him, ordered the destruction of the archives. He was a national security officer. And for him, this law, which is now in force, does not provide for any restriction. Because he was an official of the State Security Service. But you've introduced six restrictions, say a medical condition. So if this file says he had the flu, we're done. If this document says he had a mistress, we're done. If this document says he committed a traffic violation, he drove across the red light, we're done. If this document says he didn't go to church, we're done. These are all the restrictions you have just imposed. And in this is the problem and the problem is that you are imposing restrictions on officials of the State Security Service. Let's go to that famous publication of your archive. Look, Minister, why did you publish the annual reports on the work of the Ministry of the Interior from 1945 to 1974? I don't care. I want to know who ordered the murders, who killed them, and who planned them. You have published, see, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ministry of the Interior in 1968, 1970, even the Rules of the 1975 Judgment. I don't care. The rules of the Judgment didn't say anything about murder. I want to know who killed him. You published organizational schematics and systematization from 1945 to 1965. I don't care about that either. I want to know who killed and who planned the murders. You have published the history of the internal affairs bodies of the VOS, from 1941 to 1951, as many as 12 parts. I don't care about Lejak, and Omarze doesn't. I want to know who planned the murders. Look, you publish things that are completely irrelevant to hide important things. We have a problem here. That's the problem. And I'm sure when the referendum is over, with one or the other outcome, it's over. We can bet that on lunch today if you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The gentleman's asking another question, or I didn't see it, but we'll say so. Where you mentioned that the story ends for officials, of course, it doesn't end anywhere or anywhere. We're talking about which categories of archive material are freely available. And the first thing she did in comparison to the 2006 law was to introduce and delete any unreachable material. According to the novel, there is no longer any material that would be unreachable. We are talking about three levels of accessibility: freedom of access where anyone who comes to the Archives of Slovenia may require material and see it. This is a material that does not have sensitive personal data, this is a material that does not have those basic, now significantly smaller set of restrictions that concern sensitive personal data and are also clear. Anyone who wants to get to this material has two chances after the novel. Firstly, request material on nomation if he is not interested in such sensitive personal data. If he doesn't care if someone had a mistress or not, like you said, he'll get a piece of paper that'll be branded. However, if he is interested in this information, he will have access to this material through the archival commission just as he is now. To inform and to say that the archives are closing is, of course, a serious misdirection that is far from any facts. Of course, I understand your client that she is disturbed by the principle equation of the authors of archival material, depending on whether they were monitored, whether they were victims or suspected bloodstains. But, listen, whoever was the executioner can determine the judicial authorities, the criminal authorities, your parliamentary commission just by walking into the archives because there are no restrictions on accessibility. It is indeed a matter of great deceiving and equating a symbolic role when we speak, but it is important to be aware of where the problem of the 2006 law has been, both in terms of the Ombudsman and the Information Commissioner at the point, when the greatest intimacy of every human being is, whether it is a prisoner or an intellectual, whether it is a victim, whether it is a bloodhound or anything, it is protected. Basic intimacy. Here we must make it very clear that no archive material is defined as unavailable in any way. And here no argument of yours has to hold. However, we want this material to be examined by the most transparent procedures. The 2006 archiving commission is operating in the same way, clearly handcuffed, and this seems to me the most transparent way that you can't, forgive me, talk about archives closing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u136	Yes, I just need to make a procedural proposal because I don't want to get you, Madam President, into a confusing but just one sentence. I regret if someone is equal to the victims. This is totally unacceptable to me. This is exactly the same as comparing the killer to the victim and protecting both of them equally. It's not acceptable and it'll never be for me, no matter what else. But given the situation we are in, according to both Mrs Jeraj and me, I propose that we hold a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 6 March, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be posed by the mag. Ms Katarina Hočevar to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected government team, colleagues and colleagues have a nice greeting on my part too! The power plant with the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is closed and the Thermoelectric Trbovlje is faced with many problems during this period. Today, too, a warning line is being made by the Sauvage miners. Although last week the government confirmed the amendment of the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, which extended the completion of the closures by three years and thus made it possible to consolidate the operation of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. Many miners have lost their jobs. The loss of jobs in Termoelectrica Trbovlje would be a new social bomb for Zasavje. The company HSE or Holding of Slovenian power plants is the owner of the Termoelectrica Trbovlje. The 2013 business plan already stated that they wanted to sell this share. The fact is also that Block 4 of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje is spent and experts point out that after 2016, Block 4 will only be able to operate to a limited extent. That is why both ecological recovery and technological reconstruction of Block 4 are necessary, which requires as much as €60 million. Thus, the HSE group, when it envisages the divestment of the share, has actually committed itself or this recovery, puts this burden on the potential new owner. I hope that all stakeholders in this story will have the same objective: to ensure the social security of employees and to maintain energy activities at the Termoelectric Trbovlje site. Question for you as Minister for this area: When can we expect the final sale of the thermoelectric power plant to a strategic partner? To this day, why has this been done, or what are the reservations that the sale has not yet been made? As a member and representative of the Sava region, I would also like an answer from you on behalf of the employees of the thermoelectric power plant: When can we expect a final decision, or why, in this story of suction energy, at least from the point of view of the mammals, is everything taking so long or in our opinion too long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u140	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. The suction energy, I'm going to touch the suction energy, which was one of the first topics I've faced as a district minister. At the beginning of the term of office, the management and representatives of the union were at my disposal with the problem of closing the mine and the mine in connection with Thermoelectric Trbovlje. The very history of RTH dates back to 2000, in fact only the closure of the mine began. You probably also know the law on progressive closure of RTH. I have to say that what I did at some point in time was the best thing I did to the management, which led the RTH and the closure, that after all these years, so we are talking from 2000 to 2014, when I faced this problem, in the first stage they had no scenario and completely clearly worked out what will happen in 2015 when the mine was actually closed, the rehabilitation of all surfaces and the closure of the cave. The meeting with me made it quite clear that this scenario was not ready for the only scenario prepared by the management to be extended by the closure of the mine. I must say that at that time my position was clear that 2015 is the year in which the mine must be closed. If we look at the period 2000 to 2015, I still believe that this should be the period during which this mine should also be closed. Notwithstanding this situation, the only thing we can consider to be the mitigating situation of RTH in closure is Zujf, who has collected two-thirds of RTH funds from the budget for closure and recovery of areas that have been usurped by RTH. However, this still does not solve the problem that, in fact, throughout this closing phase and in the closure programme, it has not been clearly presented and the programme has not been drawn up, what, whether in 2015 or some year later, what to do with jobs or in which to restructure these jobs so that miners employed in the RTH will not lose their jobs. And a similar story is with the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. If I come back to RTH for a moment. In the last period, in view of the situation and the situation in the RTH, I supported the solution and the extension of the mine closure until 2018, mainly for two reasons. First, we save the surfaces and then the pits that have to be closed. Regardless of the situation, the country will eventually have to take care of it, and that is why I supported it. We have also foreseen some 15 million euros per year for the closure of RTH in the draft law, so we are talking by 2016. When we talk about the Termoelectric power plant Trbovlje, which, as you mentioned, is owned by the holding of the Slovenian power plants, it is the management of the holding of the Slovenian power plants that is responsible for this, how and how the ownership structure of the Termoelectrica Trbovlje will change. In this regard, I had a meeting with all the participants in the process to get first-hand information on what is happening with the sale of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, where, in fact, what has been presented to me is a solution to the issue not only of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, but in fact of some part of the power supply. As far as sales are concerned, we need to be perfectly clear. The sale of the Termoelectric power plant Trbovlje is under the full jurisdiction of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding. If we look at the decision guidance, the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants has a Supervisory Board set by the Court, which manages state assets. So here, when we talk about business itself, only the ministry and the government at operational level are not involved anywhere. As a government, we have also given our opinion to the Administration of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, where we have clearly written that this is entirely within their competence. This is exactly what the Court did as a national asset manager. However, I must say that, even at my meeting and whenever there has been communication on the sale of TET, we absolutely support the sale of TET, but subject to the development of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje and the preservation of jobs. And here we were perfectly clear. So investment in technology equipment itself and social security in the Thermoelectric Trbovlje.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you, Minister, for that part of the answer. When I asked you a lot about this sale in the first part, that is because it is also clear that HSE obviously does not have the money to make its own investment in the reconstruction of Block 4 TET. And that's what I say more than once, all the money goes to TEC, so there's no money for TET. But you know, Minister, we, whenever we meet, also with informal parliamentary questions, I always remind you of the problem of suction energy. To ask this in public today is also the reason why, for example, one of the many answers or calls I have received from your office on 17 September 2013 the following message: "The HSEs claim that they are very far away in the negotiations and are just ahead of the agreement." And today it is on the threshold of March 2014, so I am calling here once again, whether it is the HSE or the Court of Justice, after all it appoints or at least the thirsty from behind or from the front to give to those people who run it to the government or the state. I really urge them to bow quickly and to work well, so that at least these jobs in Zasavje are preserved. Like you said, it's important to be careful about it, but if there's no money to rebuild it, there's a strategic partner to do what's right and what's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Minister. You have a chance to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you for your word and thank you for your time. I still owe part of the answer to the first part. It is true that we have many debates about suction energy, both about TET and about RTH. Above all, it is important to stress what I wanted with the decision-making direction of the Soda, the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Power Plants, which is the majority owner of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. The question was also about deadlines, and of course time is what is not on our side. We do have a time bomb on jobs. In fact, when something will happen, there is something that we, as a government and as a department minister, cannot give an answer to. Direct jurisdiction and decision-making of the sale of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje is located on the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants and on the Administration of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants and, of course, on the Supervisory Board. They are the ones who need to set timetables and also respect the situation that we have in energy in Zasavje, that perhaps with late decisions and not sufficiently tracking time components are actually jeopardising jobs in Zasavje. Once again, this authority is not in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is not in the Minister of State, but it is directly on the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. There's no extra wish. We continue with Mr Ljub Žnidar, who will question the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, unemployment is rising from day to day, and we are up to 130 000 unemployed in our country. If I look further at some of the statistics provided by the media, I can see the following. It is clear from the surveys that 97% of Slovenians believe that the situation in the field of employment is extremely poor. 58% believe that the employment situation in the future will be even worse. And only 7% of Slovenians believe that the current government's direction is going in the right direction. I believe that, according to the forecast, including negative growth in the economy, because only Slovenia and Cyprus are forecast to have negative economic growth and the result of negative growth is also an increase in the number of unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia in the future. For this reason, Madam Secretary, I ask you: What will your actions be in the next three months in the area of job creation and thus the reduction of the number of unemployed in our country?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. And a nice greeting from my fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, the numbers you mentioned are alarming, which is what I always say. However, the fact is that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and I, as responsible at this Ministry, do not have direct leverage to create jobs, but above all our competence is active employment policy measures. Active employment policy measures were one of the objectives immediately in last year's year following the launch of the mandate to intensify them. I think that data, when compared to 2012, show that about once more people are more involved in active employment policies. Even if you look at this year, we have changed the plan of action of the active employment policy adopted in 2012 by adding 44.3 million euros so that 104.6 million euros will be fully provided. This will ensure that around 38 000 600 people are included in active employment policies. Within active employment policies, the main focus at this time is on young people within the framework of the guarantee scheme adopted, but it is also with legislative changes in last year's legislation, for example in the area of long-term unemployed people, and there must be a focus on active employment policies, especially on the most vulnerable categories of unemployed people, and they are long-term unemployed, so we are trying to focus measures on these and young people. €43 million is available for public works this year, in which we plan to include 9,000 unemployed, more than once more than last year. At the same time, it is also important that you passed an intervention law last week to remedy the consequences of the acorn, where about 1,000 people are expected to be involved in public works. The provisions of integration into public works have also been amended. We have a job subsidy as a job training measure, a job subsidy. me, Business in the world of entrepreneurship, mentoring for young people, apprenticeship for young people, working test for young people. But this is about active employment policy measures, which gives certain results in cooperation with the economy by shifting jobs. Of course, the competent ministry can do public works, and we have also tried to ensure greater sustainability within the framework of social entrepreneurship, because public works, we know that these jobs last as long as they are subsidised, so paid by the State, but when the measure is completed, these jobs are no longer available. That is why we have tried to carry out a third of these public works this year through social entrepreneurship, with the desire to ensure that some longer-term jobs are also available in the future. Certainly in active employment policy, we are doing what we can, but in recent times it has been pointed out that the number of unemployed between the ages of 30 and 39 is also increasing, who ask me many times, "What are the measures for us?" In fact, at 130 thousand unemployed people, everyone is becoming vulnerable, but of course with the resources we have, we are still trying to target those groups that are most vulnerable. The active employment policy is thus, irrespective of crisis or non-crisis, primarily in place to enable vulnerable groups to be integrated into the labour market. I believe that by the measures that they are, we also achieve this. Without economic growth, which will prove to be, it must show up in quality jobs with a higher added value, and this figure of 130 000 will be very difficult to reduce significantly. Some are training and education active employment policy measures, some are job subsidies, some are public works, and we have added something to the available resources and will see results. However, given that we have about 800 jobs in the employment office, the issue between supply and demand is, of course, so difficult in this way with the Ministry of Labour's actions to say from this payphone that we will solve this problem because it would be unrealistic to expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u150	Dear Minister, in my view, these measures of active employment policy are in practice not sufficiently noticeable and do not improve certain indicators of trend improvement. Maybe you'd open up your own perspective that I see. This time in Slovenia we spend quite a lot of time working in black. In my opinion, it is not a solution to the black work only, for example, a repressive measure with the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment, where we tighten the matter, impose penalties and so on. In my opinion, it is a better way to actually analyse all these works in black and to create conditions and opportunities for those doing them legally. For example, if I mention just one specific example, for example, someone is looking out for a preschool kid at home, black. Let us create conditions so that this work can be done legally. And I know very well what standards and criteria are in kindergartens and so on. But only Slovenia has such criteria and standards. Let us create the conditions that today those who do black work, of course, by moderate taxation, can do this work legally. It's actually about creating conditions, and I think it's also your department's job. Perhaps a reflection in this direction to create the conditions for additional employment here as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you for this initiative, Mr Member. In the first reading, you have already addressed the law on prevention of work and employment in black, where I have made it very clear that it is not the primary objective that we only increase penalties, but that we, on the other hand, allow people to legally carry out certain forms of work. And such a case of home protection is now a new arrangement of personal supplemental work, where by introducing the voucher system we give these people the opportunity to do it legally while at the same time giving them encouragement because the contracting authority will pay for this activity or this service and the pension period will be recognized. So I hope that, from this point of view, you and your client will also support this law, which brings real novelty and allows people today who provide services in the dark in our homes to have some leverage, to report it in an administratively rather burdensome way, to be recognized by their contributions and to bring it into the formal sphere and that we will all have something of it, people doing it, a recognized retirement period, and more of it from the pension system, from our treasury. We must take into account the logic that each work counts and that everyone who works contributes to these common cash registers, because, given demographic trends, we will simply not be able to guarantee rights from these systems in the future. Therefore, I am pleased and we are trying to act in this way and certainly it is not a basic objective only to punish people, I agree that the different options in the system need to be given that people can in a fairly simple way also provide these services legally. This law will be before you in second reading and is next week on the parental committee and then in the national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u154	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I would be very happy if these measures of yours, which I have not quite understood today, are actually some things already covered in the budget itself and these new laws, which are intended to come into consideration or already are. Of course, I will be satisfied when the unemployment trend at least stops or turns in a positive direction. However, as the unemployment trend is increasing from day to day, I propose that the debate be held in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you very much for this proposal. It will be decided on Thursday, 6 March, in the framework of the vote. The following question will be raised by Mr Andrej Cuz, Minister of Infrastructure and Space to Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, the ministers and all the colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly! Mr Minister, at the November meeting of the National Assembly, I have asked you an oral question in connection with the National Housing Programme. The draft itself was published by the previous government, I think on 20 March 2013, that is almost one year ago, and even then I asked you what is going on with this document, how far is preparation. You said yourself that you still need to coordinate, you also have a meeting at the Housing Fund and so on. However, you said that the document itself was to be dealt with by the Government sometime by the end of January. The document was based on some general developmental orientations of our country and on the findings of analyses of the existing housing situation, while also trying to ensure conditions for improving the housing situation of the various target groups. I was talking about young people myself at the time. As I have already said, in November I received your reply that by the end of January the strategy or programme itself will be ready to be addressed by the Government. As the last point for the first part of the debate, however, I would also say that the state has huge amounts of housing, which are unfortunately empty today, and consequently poorly maintained and in a truly poor state. If we were smart enough to tackle these problems, I think that all the apartments would be very useful, and a lot of young people would be able to make it easier to make their own way, given that only the housing fund has 8,000 apartments. If I refer to the isolation of young people, I would like to say that we are in Slovenia at the very top of the European Union by the proportion of young people who are at home. Thus, between the ages of 18 and 34, we have as many as two thirds of the young people who are at home with their parents, and this is an alarming situation. I think we're even among the first in Europe. That's why I want to know: Why was there a delay? Is there also a known final version of the strategy? That's what you're talking about in the coalition contract. If you already have specific plans: What do you do with these empty apartments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u158	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Mr Member, thank you for the question. Above all, I am pleased that you are closely monitoring the work of the Government both in the field of the National Housing Programme and I also recall the vigilant monitoring of our work in the area of construction, the construction of motorways. Indeed, all that we discussed in November has also been done. We also made that visit to the Housing Fund so that we could hear their views. Above all, it is important for us all to be aware that the preparation of the National Housing Programme is an extremely difficult and responsible task, especially from this point of view, because the actual constitution provides for an essential task, an essential right for citizens to have an adequate housing. In these turbulent times, it is very important to take into account all the factors affecting such an important document as the National Housing Programme. It is important to realise that in these difficult economic times, the real estate market itself has been crippled, and very few transactions are taking place on the market. Similarly, the transfer of housing management from banks to DUTB has had an extremely important impact on the work on this content alone and, of course, the real estate tax itself is also one part that has an extremely important impact on the content of the National Housing Programme itself. Last but not least, when we look at all these factors that affect the content itself, it is important to take into account that when coordinating the programme itself, it is necessary to harmonise and reach consensus both with the professional public, with non-governmental organisations and also among the departments themselves in terms of changing circumstances and all these important factors, because we really want a quality document, especially from the views of young people, which you mention yourself. Above all, we want this consensus to be achieved and indeed when we accept that this is a quality content document, which will then also draw all the guidelines that we want in this area. These two months of actual delay or additional work certainly do not mean that there was no work done during these two months. On the contrary, due to a change in circumstances, the National Housing Programme has been further coordinated. Once again, the programme itself is inter-resortmental coordination, and given all the new factors, we hope that with the new housing programme, taking into account all the factors – of course, we expect that all of what we have now actually integrated into this very content, that it will not then go to major, important turbulence and change – somehow by summer or before summer, we want the National Housing Programme to be harmonised and that it will then go into normal procedure and actually be dealt with in the Assembly this fall.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Here, you have a chance to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. If I understood the coalition contract correctly, I'd have the question: Are you going to prepare a completely new document, or will you build on this basis, which was transferred last March? Of course I'd like to ask you for an answer. As far as dialogue with civil society and experts is concerned, I don't know, maybe we can go hand in hand in this area, convene a thematic meeting of the working bodies responsible for this. Of course, I'm also interested in: Will the objectives, such as creating conditions for making it easier for young people to adopt themselves, be among the priorities of the document mentioned? A specific question: How many empty apartments are currently owned by the state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you for your word and thank you for the additional question. If we are looking at the National Housing Programme itself, of course, it works for the Directorate for Space at our Ministry, and in substance, and all the circumstances that I have cited, they actually put this document completely into a new light, so that this is a completely new document. Regarding your proposed hand and cooperation – we talked about this in November, even then I invited you to attend a meeting or meeting at the Housing Fund and we are happy to be open to all good suggestions, for all positive initiatives. Such absolute anything, additional proposals and substantive debates, is welcome and the Ministry's doors are always open. About the exact number of apartments that are currently empty. I don't know the exact numbers right now, I know they're always changing, and I promise you that I'm going to make sure that I get all the exact data from the Fund today, just like from the DUTB, and I'm going to give you the exact number.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mr Franz Jurša, Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister, a large number of people in both the Government and the National Assembly and various experts have been working on capital investment management legislation for some time, as well as legislation on the Slovenian State Holding. According to some information, the Ministry of Finance is expected to conclude one or more advisory contracts. Here I am referring to labour contracts and copyright contracts with regard to the creation of new legislation on the Slovenian State holding company. Since this is a topical issue, both in terms of the fact that the bill is already under consideration in the National Assembly and in terms of savings, I ask you the following questions: Does it bear in mind that the Ministry of Finance has cooperated or cooperated with external experts, co-workers, on the text of the new proposal of the Slovenian State Holding Act? If the answer is yes, I would like to know: How many contracts have been concluded and with whom have they been concluded? On the contrary, I ask for specific information with the name and surname of the legal person, type or description of the works, the duration of the contract. What is the total value, net and gross amount of these contracts? What is the value of individual contracts, net and gross amounts? How much money has been paid online and gross to individuals in connection with cooperation with the Ministry? What was the work done? I'm asking for a more detailed definition. How many public servants have the Ministry of Finance been active, substantive or working on this bill and since when? Thanks in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member. We have been working on this law since June, July of last year. We have already had a lot of joint meetings and coordination, so you have probably noticed that Mr Podbevšek, an external associate, is also working with us. We signed a contract with him last July. The total value of the contract is EUR 13 000 970 gross, which nets around EUR 10 000 800. He's the only outside co-worker involved in this story. The other co-workers from the Ministry of Finance, who are also involved, have also had the opportunity to meet at our coordination meetings. That's how I think you know them by name, so you know about three, four.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you for that brief answer. However, I would like to ask you another additional question concerning the basic law of 2012. The then coalition and opposition have actually formed working groups with representatives of coalition parties, opposition parties. I want to know: Do you have any information on how much external work was involved at the time, and what price or payment was paid for that work?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u170	Yeah. Perhaps I would mention this: when we looked at how many different proposals have already been prepared at the Ministry of Finance in the last ten years, as regards the area of capital investment management, I think there have been many, many proposals, and many have not gone through, but it would be good to have some going through in the past. Thus many things have already been done in this area. We haven't made a real breakthrough in this story. The law, as it is now written, I think it's good. I'm not sure if I'm going to like the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We continue with the next question. It will be stopped by Mrs Romana Tomc, Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Method Dragonji. Here you go, Mrs. Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! In your opening presentation as a minister's candidate, you pointed out at that time that one of your planned actions is also the establishment of a so-called subordinate capital fund to help Slovenian companies with inadequate capital composition to a better composition and thus to a greater potential for their development. I also agree with your conclusion when you somehow said that the Slovenian economy is in poor shape. The only ones that are actually saving us right now are our exporters, while the numbers shown by statistics in all other companies operating in Slovenia are getting worse from year to year. In particular, in this place, I would point out one number that we can all be concerned about, in addition to having 130 000 unemployed today, but more than that, that concerns the economy in the private sector from 2008 to 2013, these are the data from December each year for 83 thousand jobs. It is said that the Slovenian economy urgently needs some new impetus and, of course, all the help of the state in doing so. My assessment, as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party's assessment, is that with the measures implemented last year by the government of Alenka Bratušek, with all the tax hikes, with all the additional bureaucratic obstacles it has imposed on them, this will not be possible. We believe that the path should go in the opposite direction, in decommissioning the economy and in facilitating these circumstances that affect their operations. In doing so, I think it is important that these measures be as horizontal as possible, that these measures should apply to the whole economy, since the measures so far have not worked out well by encouraging, subsidising or favouring certain groups of companies or even some individual companies. I'm asking you specifically: How do you want to help the Slovenian economy with the subordinate capital fund? Who's this fund going to be for? As specific as possible! What is the time horizon in which you want to create it? Where will you get the money?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Thank you for asking. The subordinate capital fund that I have earmarked in my presentation as a candidate for a minister is an idea that I have been born on the basis of knowledge of economic problems in the various segments of the economy, for the first time in my practice in the real economy and for the last few years also in banking. The idea is based on subordinated capital, which could be one of the instruments that could help companies acquire a long-term funding source. Despite the measures taken so far to recapitalise the three banks in the majority state ownership, to establish a bad bank and to transfer bad claims to that bank in the banking system, according to data from the Bank of Slovenia, some EUR 6 billion of poor claims remain and, as a result, the banks will continue to be very conservative in lending businesses. In addition, sub-capitalisation of the business sector and over-indebtedness will contribute to this conservation. The subordinated capital fund is a possible solution which will temporarily, for a limited period of 5 to 7 years, establish in companies with different financial arrangements the possibility of acquiring capital, improving the company's capital adequacy and providing financial resources for both the assets and the investments. I would not like to explain in more detail right now because the idea has not yet been fully developed so that it can be more operationally represented by the solutions that I have imagined. In general, subordinate capital would have this property in order not to have voting rights, as usual in the world, and would not in fact be actively involved in the company's business strategy. In principle, the fund could enter companies by means of a repurchase option or by subsequent refinancing of this share when companies were trained to access bank resources. How and when the fund will be organised can be somewhat difficult to speak at this time or too quickly. Certainly my goal is to establish this fund within no more than six months. However, a number of other aspects, particularly those relating to the granting of State aid, should also be examined. The fund should be based on at least 50 % on private market sources and the rest would be participated by the State. There are several possible combinations and if the project is well placed, banks themselves could contribute to the fund. In addition, we hope for the participation of international financial institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. They will also in themselves set clear conditions under which this Fund will be managed and, in general, ensure its effectiveness. I also have to add that I do not want a new financial institution that has a legal personality, but we are thinking in this direction that the management of this fund should be handed over to one of the existing financial institutions, such as Sid Bank, in order to further rationalise the business. However, as regards issues related to the decommissioning of the economy and further economic policy measures to accelerate economic growth, this issue will certainly also need to be opened in an existing coalition to reach certain agreements and compromises [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The economic momentum will be simple, and the growth momentum will be too slow. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u176	Even in terms of commenting first, I would like to say that I personally very much agree with this way of helping Slovenian companies, but in today's situation this does not seem likely. You yourself have now mentioned in your reply that you are expecting about, say, a six-month deadline, mentioning that half of the required capital would be missing by the state. This is still the financial year of EUR 500 million, as far as the fund is supposed to be heavy, which means EUR 250 million. I'm afraid the finance minister or the government didn't see it coming before your performance when we confirmed the budget. So I don't think there are any really great real possibilities for setting up this fund, at least not in the way you said. But I have another thought, of course. Look, it's very important which companies, if the fund is already set up, will be entitled to these funds. In fact, if it is only companies that are sub-capitalised, this does not mean that they are companies that also have good business plans. Because only those companies that have good business plans and a development perspective are worth funding. However, if these are companies that are promising and have new products, services and potential growth to offer on the market, then of course there are no obstacles to not getting this money from the bank. But banks, now that they are recapitalised, when they have a lot of money available to lend to the economy, choose – I hope – those projects that are worth it [[sign for the end of the debate]] Incentives. So there shouldn't be any obstacles. Six months from now, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to ask you again what it's like to realize this idea of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Ambition is not an easy idea, it's not easy, I'm aware of it. But I'm not going to stop at the first problems, so it's going to be a process. Nor is it realistic that the fund, in its entirety, should be made fully operational at the same time and that this capital should be raised in the first year. It'll probably stretch out, stretch out for a longer period. You are also right here that companies with good products and good programmes should normally get money from banks, but that is not always the case. In any event, it will be necessary to cooperate very actively and also work with banks, as they would in particular leave banks to assess the risks of these companies in order to meet both bank criteria and aid criteria in the form of this subordinated capital. Only in this way could the risks associated with such a subordinated capital fund in some way be objectively covered. In any case, it would be in this direction without guards, I would say, insufficiently responsible to establish such activity and such a scheme. I will try to find these solutions and gradually test them on pilot cases first and then, if they prove to be good, then we will further develop them to the extent that they prove to be necessary and useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič, Minister for Defence, will raise the next question, Mr Roman Jakić, which is today a fair percentage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you. Your Honor! In recent years, when we have experienced many natural disasters, such as fires, floods, reptiles and the last stomach, we can see how important the protection and rescue system is in Slovenia, which is largely based on a voluntary base, on firefighters. The normalisation of the situation in the country was made possible to the greatest extent by thousands of voluntary operatives from various voluntary fire companies. Now that we are pleased to see how well Slovenia is organised in such cases with the help of a voluntary base of people, the problems that these same people face in their daily work are also revealed in the background. This has been particularly well revealed in the last accident, since interventions have lasted for days, weeks, and some are still taking place today. New questions have been raised regarding the social protection of firefighters as well as protection in the event of possible injuries. Again, problems with employers have been raised, which is perfectly understandable, as it is difficult to replace the absence of workers while waiting on the country for a trifle in this title. Once again, it turns out that voluntary operational firefighters are the fences of the entire system and do not have exactly any status. That's why I want to know: What concrete measures do you plan to take at your Ministry on this subject not only from the point of view of the roof law but also in other legislation that can provide certain reliefs and reliefs? Are you preparing changes to the law and when will we be able to decide on them in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia? How will you further strengthen a system of voluntary firefighting that has not broken even in the last major test, even though it faces major problems? I'm also interested in: What do you think of the establishment of a special firefighter fund set up by the State? What do you think of the exemption from value added tax for all the necessary fire extinguishers equipment, not just for certain selected articles? What do you think about more concrete reliefs and less administrations for employers who employ volunteer firefighters and thus contribute in some way to the functioning of the system? Because it doesn't matter whether you have 5, 10 operative firefighters in your company or none. I would like oral answers to all these questions at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič will answer your questions orally at the next meeting, as you wish. The following question will be asked by Mr Branko Ficko to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Agriculture and Economics! Of course, I will ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, and I welcome both of you! With 1. 1. A new Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Safe Food, by law of the former Government, has been established with the status form of the body in the composition of the IKO. As many as 396 public servants are employed in the administration, of course, it is intended to be established to provide consumers with safe food. In January this year, the administration in Gorenjska and in central Slovenia issued a ban on the sale of milk for farms, where investigations also showed the presence of aflatoxin in milk and on all farms there were feed maize with which milk was infected, purchased in the Cranian Agricultural Association and this cooperative had to destroy the disputed maize. One of her plants was closed because he wasn't registered. It is evident that farms used Croatian origin maize for cow feed or that the cooperative sold Croatian origin feed, in which the maximum value of aflatoxin was exceeded by 4 times. Personally, I do not believe that farmers who have already suffered economic damage cannot assume the latter's responsibilities. Mr. Secretary, this is my question: Are you assessing that in this case everything has been done that consumer health has not been compromised and that official controls of the administration in the food or feed chain, including monitoring of risks, are appropriate? Of course, I'm most interested: Why did the Administration fail to detect or suspend the supply of infected maize and thus have to take responsibility for the farmer? This has caused him economic damage not to talk about distrust among consumers. In this case, what is the control of other types of goods in relation to the free movement of goods on the European Union market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Member, for the question. As you yourself said, we were dealing with aflatoxin in milk in January. It is important to know that the control system in Slovenia has been different since we were in the European Union than it was before. At the time, the country was responsible for health adequacy, which it confirmed with appropriate stamps. Since we have been in the European Union, the health or safety relevance has been the responsibility of all those who create food, including food raw materials, and the country only controls or implements the prescribed measures, and through monitoring whether these measures are also successful. In this particular case, as soon as the sample of aflatoxin was detected in one of the samples, sampling of individual milk lines across Slovenia as well as raw materials was carried out. In fact, it was found that part of the raw material, but not all, came from one of the neighbouring countries and that the seller of the raw material did not adhere to the principle of a good host and that what was required by law was that the raw material sold must be safe. It also follows that it is clear who is liable for compensation to the farmer who suffered the damage. As the representatives of the cooperatives informed me at the meeting in Benedict, they are aware of their roles and will be aware of this compensation, at least I hope and I believe that they will also pay it to the Slovenian farmer. Three measures were taken as soon as aflatoxin appeared. The first measure was to impose enhanced implementation of internal controls. This increased implementation of internal controls, which many in Slovenia have considered possible excessive, has led to the fact that every milk that came within two weeks until it was determined where the cause of the affair was and was not removed – it took two weeks. I think it is right here to move forward with the steps prescribed for the protection of Slovenian consumers. On the basis of the facts, I can identify which reports have been reported to me and which I know that the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection has acted responsibly, in accordance with the legislation and its mission and in a way that protects consumer health. I would also like to say the following as a conclusion. The administration monitored the withdrawal and recall of the contested maize as a source of aflatoxins, so that it was not detected in milk. It is true, however, that most of the maize at issue was transmitted to farmers through cooperatives and the administration also ordered daily milk checks on the presence of aflatoxins to all dairy farms in Slovenia from 3 February to 17 February. Since 17 February, there has also been accelerated monitoring on the basis of a risk assessment. I would also like to say that the levels of aflatoxins detected by dairy products were low, but it is all right to react. A specific affair means that the risk assessment for a specific substance in Slovenia has changed, to practically two results. The first result is that the management, which oversees the implementation of internal controls, requires additional measures from the holders of responsibility. These are primary and secondary producers. Secondly, monitoring in this area is increasing. At this point, however, I would also like to say that Slovenia is characterised by a relatively greater contribution to monitoring compared to competing or other European Union countries. We have three times as much monitoring as we do in neighbouring countries, and I think that is correct. However, monitoring and other controls are carried out in two ways. The first is the annual work programme resulting from the findings of previous years and the risk assessment. On the other hand, there are action measures, which are carried out over the year, according to the situation observed in Slovenia. The Administration has also cooperated with the Institute of Public Health in areas where it is necessary and, as far as I am aware, this Institute has also assessed the functioning of the Administration in this particular area as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Do you have a request to complete your response, Mr. Ficko? Here you go, Mr. Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you. Thanks for the answer. While my opinion is that the management of its services should have acted at the beginning of the chain, not in the end, and because my question was related to the effect of the new administration on safe food with that objective, which, of course, should have been achieved, it was not, in my opinion, and then, in the final user, the farmer, it occurred that the administration had, in one way, swept under the carpet, the responsibility and the consequences had proved to be in the final – says the farmer. I mean, the administration should act preventively throughout the supply chain, irrespective of the free movement of goods, not only at the end of the article, says the farmer, because the maize came from Croatia. It is true that there is no longer a limit to the lack of customs and import controls, but by sampling errors we should have detected earlier. My personal opinion was already before the adoption of the Administration Act, and, of course, these cases prove that the new administration has not brought progress or rationalisation, regardless of the number of employees. That is how my proposal is and will be that the legal basis for that body or administration is properly checked or corrected, if necessary, so that we do not wait again for the necessary amendment of European legislation. As I said before, it is unacceptable that individual laws adapt to subjective needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Minister of Master Dejan Jidan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u188	Perhaps, Mr. Member, just as an information. The fact is that the control system works from field to field, not only with the final manufacturer. It also works where maize is grown, works where corn is made from such, different feeds, operates in the trading chain and also works in the farmer and in the shop. The fact is, there will never be an affair. This is because essentially all products are not subject to monitoring or other analysis; the analysis is based on a risk assessment. The risk assessment for aflatoxins is slightly lower in Slovenia than in neighbouring countries, I assume, because in previous years, when these severe outbreaks were completely different from now, when actual high concentrations – i.e., these specific concentrations found in Slovenia were mostly only a little above the detection limit, in no case anywhere where acute poisoning is possible, but it is right that it has reacted severely. There were no such cases in Slovenia at the time. That's what I'm trying to say. Food security is the responsibility of the food manufacturer. If this is an industry, it is the responsibility of the industry, if it is a craftsman, if it is a farmer, if it is a merchant, that is the task of the trader. So all these controls have to be carried out in each of them, and the state controls two things. The first thing is whether checks, as necessary, are actually carried out, are inspections and are sampled occasionally there, and then, as a final test, food is analysed at the end of the food chain all the time. In fact, the end of the food chain then via annual monitoring shows whether the whole chain is under control. I'd like to say the following. There's been a change in the veterinary service, the surveillance services, the food service. You must also remember that when there was a change, my personal proposal was to wait until Europe changes the whole European system. However, I must also say that when I became the minister responsible for nutrition, one of the first meetings was with the European Commissioner for Safe Food. We had quite a few subjects, and I also presented to him a new way of organising safe food, and he did not have any comments on this system of organisation of safe food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will ask Mr Method Dragonji the next question. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Hello, Mr. Secretary! I am convinced that the economic and economic situation in Slovenia is extremely problematic. Therefore, I think it is appropriate for us to do more in this area than has been done so far. It is also right that now that we have a new minister, we hope that the situation in this area will improve. That is why I am also asking a broader oral question to the Minister: we are all aware that the Slovenian economy is in very poor shape. Most of the problems the economy has with funding, i.e. credit crunches, payment indiscipline and illiquidity, which too often ends in bankruptcy or forcible settlement. The poor economic situation also causes the rigidity of labour law and administrative burdens mainly in the area of spatial legislation; the emergence of the current government, namely Alenka Bratušek, as well as the continuous introduction of new tax burdens and an increase in existing ones. Today I read a very interesting sentence, author Winston Churchill, who said, "Taxes to achieve prosperity are the same as raising a bucket of water in which you stand." I think this sentence should read this current government a hundred times. He made it very clear that in such a way as this government does, when it places an additional burden on the economy over and over again with new taxes, it is certainly not to expect positive movements in the economic field, without which the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is only a godly desire or an unfulfilled dream. I would expect to look for and propose measures to relieve the economy in this way to create the conditions for new employment, which would result in more money in the pension register, health and more money in the state budget. If you have more income, you can share more. Not to mention record unemployment, which reached a record record of 129 000 843 unemployed in January this year. The country's indebtedness has also exceeded all limits and is already approaching 75% of the gross domestic product. How, then, can this government allow itself to speak for the better? That's why I'm asking Mr. Minister: What measures do you intend to take to improve the economic situation? When do you intend to finally propose at least one measure to relieve the economy?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Dragonja Method, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. Your question is quite complex, extensive. At the time of the term of office, it is clear that there are still open things here that I do not have all the answers to. Something has already been done by the Government, I think that I have been invited to the Government in particular to bring new ideas, and in particular the experience with which, in particular, the business environment in the economy would make it easier and with improvements in the business environment, to ensure that companies are able to re-energise their activities, that they will be willing to take on some greater risks, and that then, in this way, all other social subsystems can work more effectively. While the government has already implemented measures to ensure a better regulatory and business environment. However, it is very topical to coordinate and work between the departments at this time, so that after the bank rehabilitation is completed, we facilitate and improve access to funding, as Mr Uroš Cufer has already said. With regard to the measures I will propose as Minister for Economic Development and Technology, I have presented earlier this subordinate capital fund, which is a slightly longer-term measure, but we are working on a strategy or measures to start an economy where I intend to give the highest priority to short-term measures to promote exports, because I think that exports can actually improve the dynamics of economic movements and also improve employment. In this context, I am referring not only to commodity exports as an important component, but also to the export of services and with great emphasis on measures to promote tourism and other service activities, where Slovenia certainly has a lot of untapped potential and where it is also possible to ensure an increase in employment in the short term. In these processes it will also be very important to cooperate with the Bank's Claims Management Agency and with some other institutions that take on a new role primarily in the management of the economy, state-owned enterprises and through which they would also try to create conditions for a more competitive environment in which economic operators operate. This includes measures to promote investment, both foreign direct investment and to facilitate conditions for domestic investors. This also leads to an increase in investment demand, which is an important component of economic growth. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will, however, implement measures based on European cohesion policy from 2014 to 2020, in particular in the area of strengthening research, technological development, innovation, promoting entrepreneurship, internationalisation, the development of new business models, this is all in the part where SMEs, start-ups, make it easier for them to access the markets and thus increase their potential for success in a modern competitive fight. That would be just a few major directions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Request to complete the response. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, I only hope that one moment will come, that we will not work on the strategy, waste time and make great promises. Why am I saying this? Today a very important article is written in the Evening, where it is very clear how quality work is done by this government and how this government is responsible to its citizens and citizens. Ms Nina Ambrož wrote an excellent article pointing out the extremely irresponsible conduct of the current government. In this article she also wrote an important sentence: "June 2011 Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek and then Minister of Economy, Technology and Development Stanko Stepišnik visited Maribor. The words fell: we will give the money very quickly. It's essential seed capital." In Maribor, the registered unemployment rate was 18,1%. Now 18.7%, and from then on, eight months after that, nothing happened in Maribor. Mr Minister, I do not blame you for this situation, but I must say - and here it is, I think, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Židan - that such information should be imagined. How long will this government and its team go around Slovenia and say one thing and do something completely different? And I completely forgot about Styria, Pomurje, Prekmurje and that environment! I totally forgot! Ljubljana is developing in its own direction and all other parts of Slovenia are virtually very far behind. People in those environments have been struggling to survive and it is right, for the last time, that something should also be done for Maribor and for Styria.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I've always acted as a practitioner, not as a theorist, so I'm not going to agree to some big documents, strategies and so on, but I'm going to act very pragmatically. As far as Maribor is concerned, I am in Maribor this week, March 10, at a start-up meeting of the initiative, where in the world of the region we would present activities and ways to ensure and how the government has earmarked the funds to promote economic development and growth in Maribor, then to put them into circulation as quickly as possible. However, as regards the measures taken to relieve the economy, I have a meeting with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia tomorrow, and on the basis of this meeting I also think that I will come up with certain initiatives to encourage this segment of the economy not only further, but also burdensome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal I presume. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u198	Yes, Madam Vice President. I think that the economic issue or situation in which this country is in this area is so important that I think that no one can sit in the National Assembly who would not, if necessary, discuss this issue for three, four days after 24 hours and seek solutions from this situation. I am therefore convinced that this is such an important issue which concerns every single individual in this country that we are going to have a broader discussion on this issue in the National Assembly. Dear Minister, please, these words of yours, which you have spoken here today, I will remember very well. I believe and hope that you will do what is expected of the Minister, for Styria and for other environments, not only for Ljubljana. And I'm not going to ask you again in a year if this unemployment would increase by over 18%. I hope that something will happen in this area, for the benefit of everyone and everyone. Mr Minister, thank you for your reply, but I think there is an urgent need for a broader hearing in the National Assembly on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 6 March 2014 in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the next question raised by Mr Zvonko Lah to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Diane Jedhan. I inform you that Member Zvonko Lah has announced an oral question to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. However, I was informed that the answer to this question was not within my power, so I cannot or will not answer this question. I propose, Mr Zvonko Lah, that you ask this question, as I have also received from the written reply of the Minister of Mags. Dejana Jedhan to ask this question to the competent Minister for Finance Resources. We're moving on to the next one. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You can't ask the question, and you were informed on February 28th, so you can't ask this question right now. [[…]] I propose, that is why I am explaining to you, Mr Zvonko Lah, that you ask this question either in writing or orally at the next meeting of the competent minister. Do you have any procedural suggestions? Here you go, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Look, the cadastral income of the affected farmers. Catastrophe income is flat-rate income on agricultural and forest land. In 2005, the Minister of Agriculture issued a directive on how to identify and valorise cadastral income. Minister of Agriculture. With the new marriage, it all came to GURS. GURS is not an expert organisation, it does not have in its kind of people who could give or calculate the basis for the calculation of cadastral income. I asked the Minister of Finance this question and today he answered the question from last month. I can't ask him why such a calculation basis. Because he doesn't know. I understand he doesn't know. GURS, too, if I ask – no. At that time, on the Committee on Agriculture, not Agriculture, the Committee on Economics and Finance, when we discussed cadastral income, GURS said that the data were from the Statistical Office. There was no statistical office on the Committee at the time. That is said, so far we have not been able to ask anyone a professional question about the basis for calculating cadastral income. We have some basics here. When we go to the GURS website, where calculations should be published by law, a regulation adopted by the Government in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. Then who's in charge? This is where calculations have been published since last May, with an estimated cadastral income of 300 million per year. Then the law was passed, which accounted for only 10% more, the Minister of Agriculture promised the vineyards at the Upper Radgon Fair that only 10% would be paid for next year. We are now published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia by the end of June or 30 June of the current year. We are in March – what will happen in 2014? Who do you want me to ask? The Minister of Finance just said thank you for reminding me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u201	Dear Mr Zvonko Lah, thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I would like to introduce you to the proposal concerning the written reply of the Minister to which you have addressed the question, i.e. to the Minister of Mag. Diana jeedan, who said, "Honored! On 28 February 2014, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment received your letter to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment on the written application of Mr Zvonk Lah's oral question concerning the calculations of the cadastral income. We inform you that this question does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, but rather of the Ministry of Finance, which we are prepared to assist in preparing the answer." Therefore, I recommend that you ask again a written or oral question regarding your question, and I am sure that you will come up with the answer you wanted. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Dragutin Mate will raise an oral question to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, who is absent today. Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u202	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to point out that I want the Minister's oral reply, so I will also briefly present the question. But it seems strange to me, Madam Vice President, by the way, to read the Ministry's reply while the Minister is sitting in the Chamber and he could say so himself. Thus, it is obvious that ministers prefer to avoid the answers that Members make. I'm asking Mr Virant the following question. In the media of public information, we could see an extremely unusual relationship between the Municipal Inspectorate of the Municipality of Koper and the police or Police Administration, namely, the CAP Koper. In fact, the Municipal Inspectorate carried out his duties, carried out his work, carried out field control, according to the application he received, which led him to receive an information interview with the Head of Inspectorate within a few days. Because of all this, he called him — very unusual! — Head of the Department of Terrorism and Extreme Violence at the Police Administration of Koper for an information interview and asked him why and what he was doing, how he was painting and where these pictures of objects located in the area were subject to inspection. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Is it true that the Police Administration of Koper in this way exercised control over other authorities within the framework of public administration? Does the Minister approve of such a way of working the Slovenian police? Did he order internal control and determine what was going on that day and on what basis did the criminals conduct an informative interview and deal with the inspectorate in an unusual way? In this regard, the minister has already received some written questions from the Municipality of Koper. As far as I know, we have reached their conclusions in the National Assembly, and I expect the Minister to answer these questions at the next meeting, as I have already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Mate. In accordance with your request, the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, will give an oral answer to your question at the next meeting. With regard to your consideration of the procedural proposal on the question of Mr Zvonk Lah, let me tell you that the representative of the Government or the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Mags are present. Mr Lach's procedural proposal cannot be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so I also read their written reply. We are moving on to the next question put by Mr Tomaž Lisec to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u204	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Both ministers present, colleagues, colleagues! I would like to present to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment the issue of concessions in state forests. The fact is, 14 days ago, Slovenia was hit by a strong impression, whether it is private or state forests. Unfortunately, however, the Slovenian countryside has also been affected by the forests law, where we introduced a carrier – with one exception; this is, we have excluded from this problem the traceability of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. So I want to know: Why? Dear Minister, I would like to remind you of a coalition contract, which I must say is quite well equipped in the area of concessions and state forests, but of course there is always a theory and another practice. You probably don't have to read your coalition contracts on concession contracts and all the management of state forests. However, in practice, there is a lot of conflicting information about the real situation in Slovenian state forests; both individuals or individual stakeholders, such as the Ministry, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, the Institute of Forests and other institutions and, of course, concessionaires on this side, on the other hand, various comments, both in the form of petitions and in the form of anonymity, which should be the real situation in Slovenian state forests. And maybe for the introduction, I'm wondering: What's the real number of concessionaires? I have to say, when we check the websites, we found that there are different numbers, from 10, 14, 17. I want to know: What's the status? What is the quantity of wood cut in the state forests, the quantity of exports of this cut wood? The key question is: What's the price? The price, according to many who own private forests as well as private saws or other systems within the timber and forestry chain, is a key problem or a key moment. We know roughly what the prices of concessionaires are, what are the prices in Slovenia, and what are the prices abroad. So I want to know: Do you think the price of concessions is real? What role do intermediaries play in this area, and what role does the foreign play in this area? Years ago there was also the possibility of obtaining a concession contract for private persons and mountain, hill farmers, and I am interested in: How has this been done, or how has this been done? Above all, for the conclusion of this first part, despite what is stated in your coalition contract: How will you implement the future of Slovenian state-owned forests after these concession contracts have expired or which variant do you tend to in practice? So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Mag. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you, Madam President, for this question. You touched on the law that talked about the carrier; that's the law that you had and coordinated coalition January of last year. The members of the coalition who were then present will also be able to tell you this. It is true that we have now made a withdrawal from this law. I must also say that because of this we have had some discussions with the Commission, but I hope that we will be able to convince it that for a period of one year the departure from traceability due to other urgent matters will not be unduly problematic. You are probably not informed, otherwise the question would be different if we had a step forward in the state forest, and this is electronic traceability. By saying that electronic traceability can also lead to a private forest, there is one problem. This problem is that we have, I think, 480 thousand owners. This is why a system has been made that is in a way easier to drive, it is a system through supplies that currently have the name of the carrier. As far as organising in the state forest is concerned, at this point there are 26 concessionaires, when I say 26, I mean from the end of 2013 to the time of this reply. At the end of 2012, there were 23 of them, as a result of the invitation to tender when the new concessionaires appeared. The concessions expire in 2018, i.e. they were 20 years old. I don't know, but you probably don't either, because neither of us was present at the time, why the state economic service was then disbanded and it seemed to be a private partnership – in some way a concession – because the neighbouring countries and the other countries of the European Union tend to have different arrangements in the state forest. Concessions are growing slowly. When I was a minister for the first time, we actually started to raise them. Concession, 2013 was such that 15.8 million euros were raised. That's actually, I'm speaking to you a little bit now, about 14 euros per cubicle. This year's concession fee before the calculated accident and calculated by the Fund was significantly higher. I think we went to 16.8, and now I'm talking a little bit about it, but I can say the exact number, that's 17.4 million euros, and in the meantime there's an acorn. Whether this concession will remain or will be amended will be known after the recovery plan has been drawn up and the concession is likely to have to be recalculated. Therefore, the concession increases all the time according to what is also written in the concession contract. We have a purpose — or else I will say. Do we get enough money from the concession? Yes, as a representative of the country, of course, I want to get more or more from the operation, especially because the money we receive cannot, unfortunately, use it for what we want, so that we invest it in the forest, to spread the forest within the forest, but it goes more or less, and the huge debts are, in order to pay the denationalising beneficiaries – and at least the forest is doing so, in my opinion, harm. Do we have comparable data from abroad? They generally work differently abroad. They have state-owned companies to care for the state forest, otherwise they give some tasks as outsourcing to do to others. For example, if we compare the neighbouring country; the neighbouring country, I think, manages more than 400 thousand hectares and expects profits from this company, which then goes to the budget of the ministry, which is responsible for this, although it is not entirely comparable, but this is the only information that is available to me right now, somewhere around 20 million this year. Let's say they have a system of concessions, although in very small part, they also have a system of concessions in Finland. If I recall the minister who was last here, the Finnish minister, who is also responsible for the forest, said, I think he said that the concession there is about 12 euros per cubic meter or so in the state budget from the cubic of the sold wood. What's the plan right now? You have seen that the coalition has taken a decision on the basis of a coalition agreement that you, honourable Member, have read correctly. It says in there that we increase our concession annually, and a new management system will go through a single company. You have also seen a decision in which we are going through the intervention law, where we have given additional tasks in the state forest directly to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. However, what I am aware of must be given – by the middle of this year we intend to give to the Government a starting point for the drafting of a new law that will talk about governance of the state forest, so that there will be no unjustified expectations that can be disputable. This is the order of things, and I think it's very reasonable and it also has support in the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Do you have a request to complete the response? Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u208	Yes, thank you. Above all, I would like to give the minister a chance in the second part to talk about prices and this state or state forest management through a single company, but perhaps a little more to say: How will they increase their income? Will they press directly against the concessionaire, or in cooperation with the Fund, or something else? How do you, in practice, imagine managing the state forest through a single company? At least it's a little provocative: we know you've been thinking at least three ways; one was also a public company, and one was about certain consortia. What makes you think your approach is the best? I'm just asking the simplest question that we'll understand. How will you prevent certain forestry lobbyists from writing laws, regulations, or other acts to their measure when you do so? So I'm also interested in: What are the legal changes? Perhaps some time dynamic of these changes in marriage, because we know that 2016 is rapidly approaching. Above all, there is another area of damage to the Slovenian state budget. I hope or believe that you have read all the reports from both the KPC and the Court of Auditors, which have also said themselves that in fact there is no problem in increasing the revenue from concession fees, only the good will or little power of those who supervise it would be necessary. And to conclude: Do you think it's black-and-black in the state forests? Some even say that the country is robbing Slovenian forests with the help of state concessionaires, which also robs or harms the state budget. I want to know: Do you agree with this claim or do you have evidence that this is not true? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you for the important question, Mr Member. You're afraid you've got two things mixed up, mixed up. One thing that has been publicly presented, a company that will enter the market as a spare buyer for surpluses, which will stabilise the market, is potentially, although I must say that the announcement itself that the state has decided to intervene, which, under legislation for a certain period, has brought some stabilisation. The second is how it will be regulated in 2018 and later. It can be similar, but it's not necessary. Which path will the Government choose, you will be informed in due time by the conclusions it will adopt by the end of the year. What are we doing right now? We are doing this by essentially analysing comparable practices for us. We are analysing the practice in Austria, which is somewhat specific, but also proved to be good in Austria. It has been introduced for more than 10 years, and we also discussed this practice with the competent minister and his associates on Saturday. We are examining in very detail two other practices from Germany: Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria. They also have interesting practice in Switzerland and Finland. So, what would be the Ministry's proposal and then the Government, which it will adopt and partially correct, will be known by the middle of this year. The fact is that we do not cut enough in Slovenia. Many people speak — and I agree with that — that it is a great shame that the raw material goes abroad. Even greater damage is that an important part of the raw material in Slovenia remains in the forest. In fact, at this point we have an increase of up to 8 million or 9 million cubic metres gross; the annual section can also be 6, perhaps even more, up to 7 million, and usually does not exceed 4 million cubic meters. The forest, which remains in the forest, unfortunately falls and even then we have CO2 problems. Why is this happening? This is not happening because the wood remains in the state forest. There is essentially a splinter such as these plans that the expert approves through the Institute of Forests. We have a real problem with inherent fragmentation – 480 000. Those who are large owners, of course, use the forest as an economic activity. But we have a problem because we have these little owners who often don't even know where their parcels are. It is clear, therefore, that we will also invest state money in the integration of owners, but that state's inherent fragmentation with some direct act cannot in some way prevent or force people. Do we have any information that there are also things that shouldn't be happening in the state forest? Yes, we do. And where we have it, we react. You are probably aware that at some point at what important part of Slovenian forests the sale took over the Fund directly and also at this point some procedures are under way. I also wish that any procedure would have come so far as to result in the withdrawal of the concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question posed by the Magi. Majda Potrat to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, distinguished Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Not for the first time will I be interested in what it's like to invest in science and investing in human resources. All those countries that are successful in overcoming the crisis have increased funding for higher education, science and technology. We have also had such a policy for some time that it also wanted to reduce funds here drastically. In addition to this different development paradigm that I perceive in Europe, I would also point out that the Barcelona objectives are ahead of us, which, in addition to other strategic orientations of the European Union, encourage investment in science and higher education because they alone have ensured greater developmental orientation and better impacts. Recently, on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, we discussed the report of the Slovenian Research and Innovation Strategy 2011 to 2020 for 2011 and 2012. When I talk about human resources, about strengthening human resources, there are young researchers mentioned there, strengthening development departments in companies, for which 11 million were earmarked in 2012, there is also talk about the development centres of the Slovenian economy, and this is where the direction of integration of young researchers from research institutions and their transition to the economy or from large economic units into smaller economic units is particularly indicated. I, Mr. Secretary, am interested in the matter of origin. So this is how we take care of young researchers in the higher education system, and my question is: What measures does the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport provide support for the activities of young researchers at universities or scientific research institutions? Why do I ask that? Published data: in 2009, there were 300 young researchers; in 2014 there were 166. So, five years apart. It's a matter of concern. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Dr. Jernej Picalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, let me thank you for the question, Madam Member, and first of all, let me say some purely general things. As you have found - and I think that our paradigms are not different here - the development of human potential is one of the most crucial tasks of the ministry that I am currently in charge of. Without this, without developing this most – and I think so – economic development, not only for economic development, but for the whole development of Slovenia, the most crucial potential will not work. Therefore, it is my idea from the very beginning to develop not only with young researchers but, in fact, at all levels, the potential of each individual or individual to the excess of his or her abilities. I think it is our duty and everyone who deals with this area in one way or another must look forward to it. This is our most important source for the future and this is our responsibility for this future. As far as the Barcelona objectives you are mentioning are concerned, I am pleased to note that the latest information we have shows that we are approaching what the Barcelona objectives somehow command or anticipate. So, 3% of gross social income, of course from public and private sources, for research and development. We are close to this, and if we continue at this pace, because this year, let's say, we have, at least as far as this public money is concerned, a 104.6% index, if we continue at this rate, then we will achieve these Barcelona goals very quickly. Of course, this does not mean that we can already be very pleased with the state of Slovenian science or the whole sector in general. If I go to your specific question about young researchers. I think we need to look a little bit wider than just and just the Young Researchers Program. Young researchers have been a programme that has been under way since 1985 and is probably one of the most successful programmes that this country has had for the development of those resources that we talked about before. It is true, however, that today, alongside the Programme, young researchers have at least a few complementary other projects and programmes, both before their doctorate and according to their doctorate, which also strengthen this human potential. As for the pre-doc program, so we're talking about people after graduation, about people enrolled in doctoral studies, I've already told you. In short, young researchers — you are right to say that the number has dropped, but it must also be said that it is to some extent, but not entirely, the fault of demography, but something else. We are certainly trying to bring this number back within the Programme, perhaps not up to 300, but certainly over 200, to bring this number back. The second program before the doctorate is called the Innovative Doctoral Scheme. It's about funding young doctors, in short, young people studying for a doctoral address. As you know, in this perspective we had a so-called variant A and variant B; variant A slightly less money; variant B slightly more money; and in any case, with an innovative doctoral scheme, we are strengthening the development and potential of these resources. And the third thing that's inside of this is, let's say, before the doctorate, funding for doctoral students in projects, programs and so on. Here, national projects and programmes and, on the other hand, mostly European projects must continue to be distributed. As far as this funding goes to the doctorate, these are, in principle, these options, and I think we're making relatively good use of them. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Impairment, request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. These were purely concrete three measures, and in fact I have been monitoring the young researchers' project from the very beginning. And just as it once happened that young, qualified researchers, when they achieved the goal and also the prescribed level of education, have found it difficult to accept the fact that there was no possibility for them to continue their research career in the environment where they found themselves, I will say that, with research teams, there is also today among young researchers – and now I am not thinking about the project by young researchers, but I am thinking about the age structure – very much of the evidence at the expense of unfair jobs. Even in the National Assembly, it can be seen from individual debates that they do not understand that a project co-financed by public funds is also co-financed so that a young researcher can get a job in it. And these may be different skills, such directly after graduation or even undergraduate students, but in any case this potential and this knowledge should be used to ensure that knowledge is not outdated because we know how it is with its sustainability. Here I would ask you, Mr. Secretary, about this other part of the problem: How, however, will it be possible to ensure greater employability of young qualified scientists, knowing that there is always no means for all sectors? When I was looking at the numbers, where we're most lagging, let's say, according to directions, they're, interestingly, humanities and art where we're most lagging behind. Thank you for that part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary Jerney Picalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you very much for this part of the question. If I may, just like before. We are now talking about those who have already completed their education and who want to continue their career in the scientific sphere. As soon as we arrived at the Ministry, we started with a project we named Researchers at the beginning of our careers. In short, I'm talking about those who have already completed their doctorate. To this end, we have earmarked around €6 million from the European Structural Funds in order to bring together these young people who have PhDed, with the economy and, of course, also the strengthening of the research groups that we have at universities and at the institutes. The call was made and today I can report that we currently have 76 such projects involving sub-doctor researchers. This was from the so-called – we call it an ugly – over-commitment or the rights of additional spending rights that we had from European funds. Another issue relating to these so-called sub-doctor projects is the question of sub-doctor projects within the framework of the Public Research Agency, ARRS. You know that we are signing projects there, and this year I can say that the Agency will, as far as I am aware, call on these sub-doctor projects. It is the projects of all those who are from doctorate to 3 years of age and within which individuals who are PhD students will be able to study. Part of the answer, part of the problem that you put forward at the end, namely with regard to humanities and art, lies in the fact that for humanities and art, due to the operational programme and also to the European Social Fund, we were unable to include such projects in what I explained earlier. So, into the project Researchers at the beginning of a career. One of the requirements is to cooperate with the economy, which is a little more difficult in humanities and art. And if I can do it in the end: there are also, and there is a lot of interest, there was already one successful application from Slovenia, and this is what they call the ERC starting grand, as they say in the Brussels language. So sub-doctor projects in the framework of the European Research Area [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] . [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the next question put by Mr Jožef Kavtičnik to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, distinguished minister, two ministers, a colleague and a colleague! That the third developmental axis was much written, said that the matter was as long as perhaps the beard of an elderly man in Koroška could be said by King Matjaž, every Slovenian and Slovene man already knows. About 12 years ago, this third development axis has been placed in space. Comrade Jakob Presecnik was the minister, and at that time he began to grapple with this problem, which we have not yet solved today. During this time, businesses are falling apart, while people from Koroška, Savinja-Salejska and Zasavje are also looking for their bread elsewhere, even abroad. Korošci have even closer to Celovac and come to Celovec faster than in Velenje, Maribor or Ljubljana. That's why this axis, this road connection, is so important. Minister, I've already said or asked you in the middle of a conversation, and now I'm asking you publicly: How are the activities carried out on the third development axis project, what is the progress and what work is planned for this year? The Savinij-Shale Chamber of Commerce met, not only Savinij-Shaleška, but also the Chamber of Commerce Celje, the Regional Chamber of Posavije, the Chamber of Commerce of Dolenjska and Bele Krajina, the mayors sat down, the locals talk about it – the roads are not yet. Every promise or promise made by all the candidates or those in the elections promised this to their electorate and electorate. It's in every political party's programme, and now I'm really interested: How far are you with this project? Please and thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u222	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question! Indeed, several times in the National Assembly, when we met, we discussed the third development axis, especially the issue and history — including those long before my time. When I staged or ran for minister, one of the most important topics at the hearing was the third development axis, and I also believed this story about the importance of investing in the third development axis. Above all, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity today, as well as the mistake that I had at that time, and I will take advantage of it — you, I believe you know it well — and a little more to the public. In fact, in the third development axis, when it comes to its investment, it is seen as a single package; so I speak everything from Koroška to White Krajina, but we know that we have several stages within this development axis, a few sections, which are actually specific both by nature, what actual road infrastructure we need, as well as, of course, the problem that is being followed from place to place and, of course, the investment itself at the end. I have a table with me and a graphical overview of the entire third development axis, so we will also provide you with this in digital form. In particular, I wanted the graphic form to be prepared at the Ministry, because then it's much easier to imagine which sections are, where and at what stage, what kind of problem we have in a particular section. If we go to look in particular at the sections themselves, but first because you come from this part of Slovenia, I will go from Koroška to the southern part. So, the Otis Summit, the Holmec Short Border Pass and the Austrian border. Here we have the actual standstill of the project due to the government's decision 25. Ten. 2012, so we are talking about state spatial plans themselves. In fact, a new transport study is currently under way, which will then be the basis for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan. When we talk about the section of Slovenj Gradec south to Dravograd with the bypasses, we have the biggest problem of opposition to local communities and we also have a decision by the Government in peace, dated 25. Ten. 2012. This section also provides a new transport study at this time, which will also be the basis for the preparation and production of the State Spatial Plan. Majority of the South to Slovenia Gradec South – Here was the State Spatial Plan Regulation adopted on 29 August 2013 and, as far as the VAT is concerned, the matter is closed, but of course now the next step to be taken, the preparation of documentation for the construction permit and the financial structure itself, how we will implement this investment or close only the financial structure. Connection to AC-A2 at the Foundation to Velenje south – here we have a need or we need to make a supplement to the study variants and make proposals for feasibility variants. We have the biggest problem here that, in fact, on one route proposed, we have opposition due to agricultural land and, on the other hand, for the other route proposed, we have a problem in planning for interference with nature and nature protection. However, I believe that, together with the Ministry of the Environment within these protected areas, we will find a solution, relief measures that will allow the route to be placed in space. In the middle part, so the part between the A1 Celje Lopata motorway and the A2 motorway, that is to say, towards the New Town, here we are actually the longest from the realisation of the project. Due to the lack of resources, the public classification of the variant study was postponed to 2016. In fact, all the studies that have been done so far have shown that non-economics are actually the main argument, which makes it difficult to justify this part of the implementation of the third development axis – of course, we speak in due course. Then we're left with the southern part, and here's the situation when we talk about the A2 motorway at the New Town until the Malina connection, the VAT regulation was adopted. 12. 2012 and we are also in the stage of the need to start [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and the installation or closure of the financial structure. [[…]] To the south, to the Vineyard, we still have a piece of the D.N.N. and the last part at Vinica is still in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u224	Thank you very much for your answer. Look, country, we know that, you know, because you come directly from the economy. The state does — just as a businessman does his business plan or action plan and if he wants and wants to do something, he will do it. I am sure that you will sit in the government, that the ministries will talk to each other and agree that this road must be made a priority right away and that it will start working. Look from Gorenje goes every minute one truck. Every minute he drives and if this logistics is not as it should be, then something will happen that we don't want to start producing moving to those places or away from the non-trading links. That's what we're talking about for BSH. We know that Gorenje is the biggest Slovenian exporter. BSH Nazarje is the largest manufacturer of small household appliances in Europe. It's the flower of Siemens. If it happens here, if it happens to us that the road connection will be to blame for Siemens moving elsewhere, then we're out of help. That is why, of course, I expect you to approach this project immediately, start the action plan and, of course, invite you and expect you to keep your promise – you promised me that you would come to the Savinja-Shales region in February and that you would tell them and face them and give them the right answers. I expect you to keep this promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u226	Thank you for further clarifications and an invitation, which I have already received and will gladly come to visit. I hope you understand my last occupation: I led a group that dealt with the intervention law and the consequences of my desire, and I have been a little involved in this property tax lately. Anyway, I'd love to come visit. Above all, I would like to add that, as the minister responsible for infrastructure, I hope that we have also become a little more aware – and also because of the consequences that we have suffered with the acorn we have experienced in these moments – how important the infrastructure is for the Slovenian economy. And here I'm talking a little bit wider, not just about roads, but also about railways. In fact, when this infrastructure is untransportable, inaccessible, destroyed, we are only beginning to realize the importance it has for the economy. At one point, I may even have felt that this infrastructure, which we have to take care of in our ministry and maintain, was regarded as non-distant. However, at the moment we saw what it means, if this infrastructure is not available, and what it has to do with the economy, then we actually get exactly what you touched: what will happen if there is no infrastructure, how their products will be removed from Gorenje, how will we service Luka Koper? That is when we actually come to the foundation that a healthy economy without healthy infrastructure in Slovenia will have virtually serious problems. Therefore, the development of the economy, on the other hand, must go hand in hand with the development of infrastructure. Above all, as far as state roads and railways are concerned, now is the time when we will have to make serious decisions on these investments. I will come up with proposals, especially as regards this work, which is related to funding. Here I also hope that these words of yours will be heard more widely, including among your colleagues, and that we will get support to make these investments in infrastructure as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We turn to the next question put by Mr Ivan Grill to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer. Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u228	Thank you very much. What a lovely greeting to all, distinguished ministers and ministers! Beekeeping is one of the important agricultural areas, and it is also right that this important part is trying to be regulated. Above all, we are all aware that this can or must be in the public interest. The beekeeping association as a umbrella organization strives to ensure that this area is as regulated as it is legally and that other areas are regulated — that this is comparable. A recent initiative has been sent by the Beekeeping Union to regulate the transport of bees to pastures in order to restore part of the excise duty to all transporters, as is the case for another area in the field of agricultural and forestry activities. Given that an answer has been sent or has already been received by the Directorate for Tax, Customs and Other Public Revenue in terms of negative understanding or support for this initiative, I ask the distinguished Minister: What is your opinion or opinion of the Ministry of Finance in order to find a way to recover this part of the excise duty? Let me point out that this is a minor amount, so this is more of a principled equality, to show, after all, good will. All the reasons that this department here gives don't actually drink water if I can put it that way. For whoever transports or transports bees, this is recorded, this is a record or list that is always available, verifiable, means that abuse, which, as one of the reasons for not going into such introduction, is mentioned here in this letter – this is essentially not sustainable. It means that we cannot take this as one of the excuses. It is also an excuse that the National Assembly has adopted a recommendation to try – or to limit any additional emissions to the environment. As I have already mentioned, transporting bees to pasture once, twice a year, this will be some beekeepers, this is not one of such arguments as to be able to refer to environmental pollution and, above all, to the inability to control. I'd ask if you'd tell me: Is your position the same or is there any possibility that this area will also be regulated at principle level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u229	Here you go, Mr. Secretary Dr. Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u230	Thank you very much for your question. My principle opinion is: I hope that the reasons for eliminating excise relief are as low as possible and that we have as few reimbursements as possible. I think you know that, too, given that we are in a phase of fiscal consolidation. So: yes, my opinion is the same as the opinion of the institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Here's a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u232	In fact, I would also like to express my protest in response. I think it's a shame, Minister, that you're sitting here trying or listening to our questions with such answers. Let everyone who sits there do something to finally get Slovenia out of the situation as it is! Beekeeping is also one of these areas, which offers a number of jobs in the field of tourism, not least in the area of the production of all bee crops for Slovenia and, of course, for abroad. And that it does not show a little good will to equalize this area, I think it actually goes beyond the understanding of everyone who watches and listens. Indeed, there is no understanding here and, as I have already mentioned, this will not in fact deprive the state budget of virtually nothing, it will gain more than to lose. Once again, I urge you to try to study this matter, and not least, we will be able to draw up the excise law ourselves, where this matter would be settled, but it will also have to be discussed in the National Assembly in the future, and it will be difficult to find the arguments that you have just mentioned. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u233	Complementing the answer, Minister Chufer – there is no need. Thank you. We are moving on to the next question put by Mrs Sonja Ramšak to the Minister of Health, Dr Alenka Trop Skaza.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Minister of Health! Today, I am not going to ask you any questions about the reform of health care, but about the problem they face in the Public Institute of Psychiatric Hospital Celje. We all know and probably you, given that you come from this environment, that last year we experienced that a new Section D was dedicated to the Psychiatric Hospital of Vojnik and that after this takeover there was also an agreement between the Ministry of Health itself and the Public Institute itself, that the properties that until then belonged to the Psychiatric Hospital of Vojnik, related to the facilities in Ravne pri Šostanje – would be a sanatorium where until then a programme in the field of psychiatry – that these properties and all the property belonging to the Ministry of Health – would be handed over to the Ministry of Health. Indeed, all these real estates are burdened by the budget resources of the Public Institute and would prefer to allocate these funds for their programmes in the Public Office itself. On the occasion of the visit of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I also promised to refer the question to the Ministry as a candidate in this environment. I wanted to raise this same question at the previous regular meeting of the National Assembly to Minister Erjavac, who was then acting as Minister of Health, but asked me to withdraw this issue, given that he had other obligations. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: When can the Psychiatric Hospital of Vojnik expect the Ministry to take over these properties? In spite of the fact that activities or services are no longer being carried out there, the public service still burdens both on its management obligations and on its material costs and, of course, on its last resort, on the use of financial resources. That's why, of course, I'm asking you, Your Honor, When can they expect the Ministry of Real Estate to take over? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u236	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Mrs Sonja Ramšak and honourable Members! I am pleased that you have asked this question because I am also coming from this environment. In fact, I am the direct neighbour of the Psychiatric Hospital Vojnik, and I also know that last year, when this dislocated unit was also moved to the parent unit, they were able to take very good care of the infrastructure to move patients to the home institution, even in the local environment, there was a lot of dust and in the first phase there was a lot of mistrust or questions about why this move was even necessary. In fact, in connection with your question, these are properties consisting of both parcels and buildings of this Gutenbichl castle, as you yourself have mentioned, which are recorded in the cadastral municipality of Ravne pri Šostanje. However, these actions or management of these properties are included in the Regulation on the planning of the real estate of the State for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2014, which is implemented in the "... Buildings and Buildings and Lands Management Plan foreseen for all these activities for 2014 and therefore all disposal procedures may already be carried out by the real estate manager." I am sorry to read from this record, but this is a matter of proper laws of law, so let me point out that, in accordance with the Law on Real Estate of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, the management procedures of the property of the State are carried out by the administrator, in our case the Psychiatric Hospital of Vojnik, which will also have to bear all the costs which are and are also linked to the "business" of the vacant property prior to the disposal of the vacant property. Let me just say that we've acquired data or I've intervened in terms of the value of the estimated properties at this location. The data is a few days old, so the estimated value of the Gutenbichl Castle complex is EUR 640 000. I also have information that matters in the procedure prior to the publication of the public auction are being stepped up and assured me, or I will make sure that this matter is carried out in accordance with the already cited Decision on the State's real estate management plan in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Do you have a request to complete the response? Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u238	Thank you, Your Honor. I also know that these properties are covered by this decision on the management of the real estate of the State or public institutions, however. Mr Erjavac and I have also spoken in person for the last time, without asking questions, that there has actually been an agreement that, while the relocation of activities will take place in the new premises in Vojnik, this dislocated unit and the change of plan will be carried out so that the real estate will be transferred to the Ministry of Health and thus the automatic unloading. All sales procedures are to be handled by the Ministry of Health, not by the Public Institute, and that is why this is my question. I don't think Minister Erjavec knew anything about this deal either, so I would appeal to you - given that you know this situation and know what additional costs mean to some public institution and that this sale can actually take place. If the property tax is still applied, this is an additional cost which on the one hand imposes a burden on the public office and on the other hand a health treasury. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u239	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mrs Ramšak, for further enlightenment on your already withdrawn question to Minister Erjavac. Let me just light up the clocks in this place. The emptiness of this castle took place last October. As you know, the handover with Minister Erjavac was last Tuesday. However, I must point out that in accordance with the Real Property Act, which I mentioned earlier, the financial burden is on the part of the manager, namely the Psychiatric Hospital Vojnik. However, I pledge to take an intense interest in the matter and to do everything possible to speed up the matter, including with the already announced public auction and with the burden of the controller, who is still the legal hospital of Vojnik in our case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question he will ask – I see that he is not in the hall – mag. Ivan Vogrin to Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac, who is officially absent today. I suppose he'll ask the question at the next sitting or in writing. We turn to the next question put by Mr Borut Ambrožič to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Greetings to all present! I will ask the question, however, even though in this interim period, when I conceived it at the beginning of the month and so far, some information has already been published in public. Nevertheless, I think that with the question raised, it is possible to raise the awareness of both fellow Members and the interested public with a content that is relatively fresh, as it relates to the award of athletes who participated specifically in the Sochi Olympics. On the website of the Olympic Committee Slovenia we can read that Slovenian athletes took part in the Olympic Games for the first time under the Slovenian flag in the 16th Olympic Games in Albertville, France, and then at the 25th Olympic Games in Barcelona, Spain, where they won the first Olympic medals in the independent country. That same year, the first patron contracts were signed, but I certainly cannot go past the great Olympics and athletes and Mariborians, unfortunately the late Leon Stuklja, who won even 6 collages at the Olympics and now joined our Tina Maze with her record. On 20 February, on the basis of the Regulation on the criteria for co-financing the implementation of the State-level annual sport programme, issued pursuant to Article 9 of the Sports Act, and in accordance with the applicable decision setting out the value of a point in the area of excellence of 5.95 euros, the Ministry of State determined the value of the awards for the winners of the collages at the 22nd Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, where 66 Slovenian athletes and athletes competed for Slovenia. Now we can see that it was the record winter Olympics that brought Slovenia 8 colossals – 2 gold, 2 silver and 4 bronze – due to the sacrifice, renouncing and superhuman efforts of athletes and athletes, and thus exceeded the record of previous Beijing Olympics, where our athletes won 5 medals. The rule, which I quoted earlier, sets out 4 thousand points for first place, 23 thousand 800 euros, for second place 3,000 points, 17 thousand 850 euros, and for third place 2,000, that is 11 thousand 900 euros. In the end, allow me to give a few words to 4, 5, 7 and other cities, as we usually celebrate only the winners, while the other contestants are often unfairly media, sponsoring and otherwise unrestrained or neglected. I ask Dr. Jernej Pikala, Minister for Education, Science and Sport: Does and from what source and in what amount – although I have already stated this in explanation – the Ministry of State have the resources available to pay the prize money for the prizes won? Now, as a sublime question: Is the ministry considering a new evaluation or higher awards for athletes who would certainly deserve it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Dr. Pikalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much too, Mr Member, for this question. I won't say it again, I don't think it would be right, and the public has been informed repeatedly about the rewards on our part. However, it must be said that there are some details that the public may not know. All those who are winners of the medals will also receive the prize by the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. So this prize you mentioned, $23,000 800 for the gold medal, 17 thousand 850 for the silver medal and 11 thousand 900 for the bronze medal, is not all the money these athletes will receive; it is still part of the Olympic Committee award. The second part, another detail that needs to be said, is that the trainers of these athletes also receive a 50% prize. This is all in this Regulation, which you have already mentioned, which has been adopted and has been in force for all these years, so that there are no changes in this regard. What we do every year and what you mentioned correctly is just to determine the value of the point, but given the money we have at our disposal, this is not just a medal. but it is an evaluation of all programs that are in sport, because all programs are evaluated with points. We have this money prepared on budget item 710010, a game for a top athlete programme, and then on account of 4119 – in short, it is other transfers to an individual. It is true, but it is certainly a joy to see that with these medals these athletes will pick up a large part of what we have planned in the budget and what is also foreseen in the annual sport programme. But what we have promised will also be fulfilled, and we have said that immediately, because the old Slovenian proverb says: "Whoever quickly does, twice does." That's how we're gonna do it. The athletes will be given decisions based on these decisions and, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, will send a request and, after the application has come to our house, the prizes will be paid on the 15th day following the application. That's what the rule book says, and that's what's right. Otherwise, if I may: I have already said many times, not only that we are a super power, which we are, but that this monetary part of the prize is actually a small part of the story of all that is behind, because there are no coincidences in top sports and just clearly systematic work is stability, is behavior about what you're doing and where you're going, and that's what we've been doing in the last 20 years, and I think that in Slovenian top sports, we have really succeeded. If I may also come from this city: once again congratulations to all those who have won medals in one way or another, as well as to all fourths, fifths, sevenths and so on cities to all those who are behind; in short, all professional support, repairers and all that, because without them there is no story of Slovenian sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Ambrožič, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u246	Thank you. Allow me to express my great satisfaction at the response of the minister. That is exactly what I expected, and I believe that this is what the interested public wanted, given some cynical statements made by some both political and other stakeholders in this regard. After all, it is interesting to me, too, how the procedures are in place with regard to the award, because, as you know, unfortunately we cannot compare ourselves with Kazakhstan, which gives a million-euro gold medals, or with Russia, which shares Mercedes with deserving athletes. Nevertheless, I think it is important to stress – depending on the smallness – that demographic or statistically viewed smallness, if you want – that, as you have probably noticed by the media, the Bloomberg agency has put us in second place in terms of the number of inhabitants after winning medals and even after the social gross product. At the end, it must also be said that even with the means that are intended for these purposes, it may be a little easier to think about athletes than the quote Teja Gregorin, which I took off the Internet when she explains that the new four-year period would be too much for her, but she does not want to think about how much longer she will compete, because her thoughts are completely at the Olympic Games – that was at the time – followed by the continuation of the world Cup. "But when the season is over, I will ask myself how to proceed. I don't rule out retirement." This is also related to the status of an athlete in our country at all, but requires an in-depth discussion once in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Would you like a reply, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. You have mentioned awards in some other countries, and I will not mention different countries, but I must say that I have also had a few conversations with my colleagues or our awards now, after you take both parts of the prize together, are comparable to some EU Member States, so we do not need to be ashamed of any of these awards. Of course, as in some countries, we do not have such rewards. I want to emphasize. Of course, money is what matters, but I think it is even more important that we have all the drive behind us so that someday, at the next Olympics, new Olympic champions and, at least for me, we can be as important as top sports on the other hand as we are more recreationals. Because if you look today at some of the dimensions of public opinion or public opinion polls, what is currently considered a sport-active, about 64% of the population, we are talking about a million two hundred thousand people. But this is a million two hundred thousand people who may have a prescription or a lot of prescriptions for medicines less, that's a million two hundred thousand people who not only feel physically, but sometimes also in terms of ethics, mental well-being, and that's how it works much better than maybe someone else who's not so physically or mentally active. Don't forget about mental activity in terms of chess and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u249	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next Member issue and we are also moving on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. The next question will be raised by Mr Janez Ribič to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! At the time of the previous government, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, or Dars, started remodeling toll stations on Slovenian highways. By summer, concrete blocks were removed at the front stations of Log, Videž, Torovo, Age, Compols and Warming, costing about 1.4m euros. The work at the remaining two toll stations of the Stajer motorway, according to Pesnica and Vranska, is also expected to start last summer and the completion was foreseen in September 2013. Work has not yet begun until today, and the reason should be in disagreement between your ministry and Dars on how to remove the Vransko toll station, which was envisaged for demolition in its entirety. But in your ministry, we're not supposed to agree to this, which is why we're still working until today. That's why I'm asking: At what stage is the process of removing the toll stations of Pesnica and Vransko and how much work is envisaged? How much were the total costs of removing toll stations Log, Videž, Torovo, Age, Comples and Beating? What are the estimated costs for the removal of the remaining two toll stations, called Poem and Vransko? Has the Ministry begun to prepare a proposal for the Tolling Act? If the bill is already in preparation, of course I would like to know: What are the key solutions envisaged in the proposal? Are you also thinking about introducing the so-called petrol cent? Its title would make it easier to finance the ongoing maintenance of roads, road infrastructure, that is, state roads, highways. Finally, I would like to ask: How is the construction of the Ptuj-Macen motorway to the state border with Croatia, more specifically Drazenci-Gruškovje? I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Minister Just Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u252	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question! First of all, before we go to the substantive part of the question, I would like to highlight – and I would like to make this clear – that Dars is a separate legal entity with his supervisory board and is fully independent in managing and investing on the motorways and, as far as operational management of the company is concerned, the Ministry has no influence and is not going to be involved in the operational management of Dars itself. Thus, in removing the toll stations itself – for those you mentioned, they are partly held to have been removed, for these two, for whom you specifically ask me, namely for the toll station Posnica, this was remodeled in 2013, when we are talking about the Vransko toll station, and again I repeat that it is under Dars' jurisdiction, but in substance why Vransko was not remodeled, there are actually two technical sets of arguments why this part of the reconstruction did not take place. The first part is mainly related to the technical reasons for construction because, in fact, there are technical reasons because of the spatial constraints, why it did not begin by removing this station. However, the second reason is more related to to tolling itself, so the technical solution itself would in fact allow the free movement of traffic and non-roading of a certain part of transport, which is of course not in the interests of Dars. As a result, this part of the removal of the toll station itself in Vransk has not yet been carried out, but, as it is said, it is entirely within Dars' jurisdiction and not within the competence of the ministry and they are the ones who operate the highway for this part. With regard to the issue relating to the costs of the removal of toll stations. To date, all the decommissioned toll stations on Dars cost 2 million 197 000 euros. On the proposal for a new tolling law, I can say that the proposal itself is in final preparation. So, actually, most of the law is concluded and we're actually going to go into inter-sectoral coordination. In this context, you are also asking me in ways of financing state roads and motorways. Here we must also be very precise and separate; one is highways operated by Dars and the other are state roads operated by the Roads Directorate, which is the body of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. They are also completely separate from each other from each other. Gifts and financing of all operations, investments are fueled by tolling and state roads under the competence of the DRSC, and on the one hand we drive the investment from the integral part of the budget and from European resources, and maintenance alone guarantees directly from the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space or the State Budget. When we talk about aspects and options for financing state roads, we are not talking about Dars here, but we are talking about state roads. From the point of view of state roads – you probably know very well the structure of the budget and the funds we have for 2014 for state roads. At this point, I will have a little over €120 million, and we have now faced additional costs of €9 million, which is why we are intensively considering options at the Ministry, how to provide more resources for state roads. I have already talked about presenting solutions or proposals first to the Government and then to the National Assembly, if supported by the Government. The petrol cent that you ask me about is also one of the options that we are already dividing, and we also want to present it as one of the options in which Slovenians and Slovenes would provide a source of funding for state roads, to which we are end-users. In the case of the technical solution of the law itself, I can say that tolling is written or written in this direction, that some technical guidance will not be defined in advance. So the technical solutions remain open, and we follow what trends are within the European Union and where tolling in the European Union is also going.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Do you want a supplement or a request to complete the answer? You do, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u254	Yeah, thanks for the answers in this part. I have to say that I separate the work of Dars and the ministry, but it's all in our country, and the ministry is kind of watching over this and doing Darsa's work, and that's why I was interested and I got some answers – thank you. As for the reconstruction of the republican roads, especially those that were severely damaged in the construction of motorways, as well as some others, which were neglected by the construction of highways at that time. Here I would like to say another problem that I am reminded of by those responsible for the Duplek Congregation. It refers to the problem of reconstruction of the state road R3-710 1292, according to Lower Duplek – Dvorjane, whose investment value is EUR 1 million 169 000. In 2013, the Municipality of Duplek already signed a contract with the Slovenian Directorate for Roads and Operators of Vod Celje for the reconstruction of that road section, under which part was established for September last year and part for this year 30. 6. Of course, due to the drastic reduction in state budget resources for investments in road infrastructure and the consequent inability to implement the projects already started, the Municipality of Duplek was given by Darsa or the State Road Company to sign an annex to that contract, with which the deadline for the completion of the project was postponed by 6 months to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Of course, the work to this day has not yet begun. I want to know: When will the work on this Duplek – Dvorjane State Road begin and are the financial resources of the investment clearly provided? I must say that 18 years of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads is slightly over 3 kilometers. I've been there alone five mayors and I've been working on every [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u256	Thank you for your word! Dear Member, thank you for the additional question! The budget and the funds we have adopted for 2014, in particular as regards state roads, i.e. DRSC as manager, are, of course, limited to these good €120 million. We are aware that if we want to move investment forward, we would need more resources from the integrated budget somewhere in the range of €40 million. We have put all the investments co-financed by European funds at the top of the agenda, and we are also taking them on state roads. One such investment is the outskirts of Škofja Loka. However, what we have is funded directly from the integrated budget and is currently being stopped due to limited resources. And it is true that at the section on R3-710, that is, the Lower Duple – Dvorjane, at the moment it has not actually started, but I would like to point out that this investment does not mean that this investment is stopping, but is only being moved to the time when we have the resources and we will be able to continue with this investment. Of course, it is conditional on the provision of funds for this part, and this is, of course, within the competence of the Directorate for Roads. As far as the section Drazenci-Gruškovje is concerned: This is the part that runs under the jurisdiction and the investment itself within Dars as the manager of Slovenian motorways. This part actually takes place within the set spatial plans, so it is in the stage of obtaining the building permit. Most of the land is purchased and according to what the deadlines were, Darsa's own investment in this part of the link to the Croatian border in the deadlines set forward is also taking place in these frameworks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mrs Alenka Jeraj to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Good-bye! I have already asked you about the matter, as regards the implementation of European cohesion policy, the Minister who replaced you, Mr Chufer, and also Mr Virant, the Minister of Public Administration. My question, however, concerns the appointment of a new leader or acting director-general of the Directorate-General for European Cohesion Policy. On the contrary, I asked whether it was all right in this appointment, given that the Minister had delegated a new name to Mrs Katja Špur, who had been assessed as not meeting the conditions, and that was why the inspection was carried out and Mrs Špurov were then deprived of those powers, but was then re-appointed. The Minister explained to me that he met the conditions, although I did not get an explanation about what the inspection had found, so I will ask Minister Virant further. In response, the Minister also wrote to me, or to my question, who will answer me if something goes wrong when EU funds are drawn up, whether we lose funds from the current 2007-2013 programming period or too late in the 2014-2020 strategy papers and consequently lost funds. The Ministry explained that it is not too late to prepare programme documents that will be the basis for drawing up European cohesion policy funds in the 2014-2020 programme rejection, as the preparation is in line with the European Union timetable and the agreed timetable. We have read that this material should be poorly prepared, that we have also been ridden by the European Commission and that things are not as good as the Minister has provided me. In addition, in the coalition agreement, in chapter two, under point 2, you wrote "We will accelerate the absorption of funds from the new financial perspective" or it follows from this: "With the preparation of implementing and other documents as a basis for drawing financial perspectives 2014-2020 we are late and the quality of materials does not correspond to high development ambitions..." So, I'm asking you the same question as I asked the minister a month and a half ago, or two months ago: How's the quality? Do we have things ready? Are we late or are we not late? Two months ago, he said we're not late, and you're writing in a coalition agreement that we're late.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u259	Here you are, Mr. Minister, Mr. Dronja Method.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in cooperation with ministries and other stakeholders, shall prepare the Partnership Agreement as a strategic document and an Operational Programme as a programme implementing document, which will be the basis for drawing on cohesion funds in the financial perspective 2014-2020. The preparation of documents shall take place in accordance with the timetable agreed between Slovenia and the European Commission. Formal approval of the Partnership Agreement is foreseen in April 2014 and formal approval of the Operational Programme in May 2014. That's a very short answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u262	Look, Mr. Secretary, then I ask you to explain again: What does the coalition agreement mean in the framework of the tasks outlined under point 2 will accelerate the absorption of funds from the new financial perspective, stated: "With the preparation of implementing and other documents as a basis for drawing financial perspectives 2014-2020 we are late and the quality of materials does not correspond to high development ambitions,..."? I don't know if he's holding what you're saying is that everything follows the timeline. We are not just talking now about whether we are going to catch the deadlines we need to give to the European Commission, which is then to be confirmed by the European Commission by May 2014. I ask you what the European Commission has already told us that the material is poorly prepared. This is probably why it was in the coalition contract, because I doubt that things are going as they should, as they would have been from your response, but if we read somewhere that we were requisitioned, that we were poorly prepared and, on the other hand, you even write this in a coalition agreement, that we are late and the quality of the materials does not correspond to high development ambitions. Are we aware of what we are doing again? We will lose billions because we have not prepared ourselves in the way we should, and because the lady who obviously controlled it most in spite of everything, because in 2012 there was an example of pumping, unlike in 2013, was suspended, and instead a lady who does not meet the conditions – and let us leave, perhaps even capable. But here is the Secretary of State, who has been involved in this and has guided matters. Look, with this answer, I'm just not happy that everything is okay if you write it down for yourself that everything is not okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u263	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Well, you asked if the timeline was expected to be met. I replied that we were assessing that this timeline would be met. But I can also give you even more detailed milestones when activities are envisaged. In return, I find it difficult to assess what was good, what was bad, because I did not participate in these definitions myself in the agreement between the coalition partners. It is obvious, however, that the coalition has set higher targets as regards the flow dynamics and also as regards strategic documents themselves. You may not be satisfied with the answer, but it is our job to hunt this clock and not to miss the deadlines agreed with the European Commission. The government has taken additional measures, has set up a special government service that can work even more closely to ensure that the preparation of all documents is quality guaranteed that all documents will be harmonised not only inter-resourced but also with the other stakeholders in this process and that we can sign this partnership agreement within the deadlines set out in the agreement with the European Commission. We are open to all suggestions on how to improve the process, how to do better and how to be as effective as possible in drawing on cohesion funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u265	Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u266	Thank you very much. So, Minister, you were only responsible for the deadlines. I say that not everything is in the dates to which we will prepare something, but it is also about the quality of things being prepared if we really want to draw as much as possible at least in the second period; let's say that we have learned something from the first, but in the light of all the reorganisations and changes, we might not. I was also interested in the quality of the materials, what the European Commission has actually said about what we have prepared, because we have already given one part. I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a discussion on your reply, but I suggest that you ask yourself who contributed the text contained in the coalition agreement. Apparently, someone was from your ministry covering this area, which found that we were late and that the quality of the materials was not high enough. I think this is a thing that we should be very concerned about, because it is practically the only money available for investment in this country, and we should probably take this a little bit more seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jeraj. We will vote on your proposal in the framework of the votes. He now has the opportunity to ask Mr Andrej Cuz, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u268	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all colleagues and both ministers! Today we face severe unemployment in our country, numbers go up to over 130 000, of which almost 33,000 are already young by the age of 29. If we think about it, agriculture is certainly one of the branches where we could do much more than we have done today. This would improve self-sustainment, reduce unemployment and also ensure the future of the Slovenian countryside. They are also somehow aware of this in Brussels, as they have also developed in the new financial perspective some new programmes for, say, accelerating or increasing the involvement of young people in agriculture. It is true, however, that Slovenian agriculture and those young people who want to devote themselves to or work in agriculture today have such status, great problems. They're bureaucratic barriers to the education system. While some point to a lack of land, if we go to another contrast, the problem may also be that the number of young people willing to take over farms is very small. Probably because of the outlook or the situation in agriculture today, too. At one of the round tables a few days ago or weeks ago, on which you yourself participated, at my end, you said that only 4% of all farms are run by young farmers. It's an alarming and very bad information. I am not exactly an expert, but I think we are probably more at the bottom of the scale after this share, and we can probably recognize the great potential, the potential for new jobs, rural development and, of course, to improve the situation in agriculture. I want to know: Are any concrete measures already in place to improve the employment situation of young people in agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u270	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, thank you for asking. I really participated at the round table, or I think that as an associate member of the Union of Young Farmers of Slovenia. Maybe as general information: in agriculture, the years are more people-friendly, the farmer is a young farmer up to the age of 40, not just until 28, 29. At this point, when I look at the agricultural area, we have at least five measures, which I hope will increase this time the proportion of young farmers in the agricultural population that manages the service. The first measure is Aid for the start-up of activities for young farmers. This is a measure that will be better than previous farm takeovers, because so far, that a young farmer has come to this money, which has been moving on average between €20 and €23 000 as a one-time aid, he had to – or Mom – essentially transfer the farm to it. That was the reason that probably a lot of people didn't want to do it. The new measure will be based on the fact that only such part of the farm has to be copied or at least leased to provide income in the size of the minimum gross wage. So, Dad and Mom can continue to own, only one part of the agricultural production will start doing young farmers. This money is at the disposal of 62 million. The second measure is also important and this is a measure of investment in agriculture, which is EUR 116.2 million envisaged for technological updates at this time. This is where the young farmer will have his preference points. So, a young farmer who will become a young farmer through the Youth Farmer's Home Aid Programme will have a preferential point here to make it easier for him to get the money on the call. The third measure is also financial aid to a young farmer, namely, if we say simply that a farmer who is up to 40 years old, when a targeted agricultural policy is no longer implemented, that is with 1. 1. 2015, it receives – and any payment per hectare – an allowance of 25% for five years to 90 hectares. This is a measure that actually allows a young farmer to do something with it, to also implement his own idea into life. On the other hand, it also enables him to make a business mistake and to survive on business. Allow me to mention two more measures at this time, which I think are generally important for young people and also for all farmers. The first measure is the timely payment of payments from the Slovenian and European budgets. We've been following this for years now, and whatever government it is, I have to say it. This year we managed to pay more or less all direct payments by 28 February. This means that we have paid direct payments a little over 57,000 farms, only a few more than 500 farms have not received them, and these are farms where there was some error in the transaction account, this is some error found, and we will also try to close these errors as soon as possible in cooperation with the farms and then pay them back. Here, too, I would like to publicly thank the finance ministry, which has also provided liquidity for us in these difficult months. Indeed, in agriculture we have paid some over 140 million euro of liquid money in the first two months. However, the second measure is actually before you, honourable Members and Members, and this is a change to the Agriculture Act, which this time interferes with the agrisystem as a whole. Since it has been found that agriculture and all food production are severely damaged by payment deadlines, which are further extended and become uncontrollable, we have reached agreement in the Government – I believe that we will also be unanimous in Parliament at this point – that we are essentially prescribing mandatory payment deadlines for perishable goods and other food. Second, in Slovenia we prescribe or make a list of illegal business practices in the food chain for the first time and ban them. At the same time, I would like to say that we are very much involved with the cooperative system, as I am aware that it is not enough for the State to implement liquidity-related measures to transfer the rule of law to Slovenia. Business operators must also act well. However, it is only necessary to say that within business entities the responsibility of the Ministry is lower than it sometimes seems at first sight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Hear, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u272	Thank you so much for the first part of the answer. As we have seen, we can be pleased that bureaucracy in Brussels has also begun to deal with the issue of agriculture, particularly with the fact that the demographic picture is much worse – so Mrs Potrata – and obviously a lot of measures stem from the new financial perspective. I'd be very interested here: When is the first invitations to tender scheduled to be issued? I think every day he's late, he'll be thrown away. However, with European money, we often feel that money is lying on the ground, but we simply do not know how to collect it. Well, in some cases it's not, but I still urge you to put all your efforts into it. Of course, I welcome the proposed changes, such as the incentive to add 25% to normal insolvent payments per hectare, to new incentives for young takers and also for those who will hire them. I also very much welcome that it will be possible to rent a farm after all, so that someone can try it out for a while, if they show up and, of course, I hope that the results will be as good as possible. However, I am interested in the fact that there is also a great deal of integration between young people and agriculture and the educational system: Do you also have any concrete plans to improve or increase the promotion of agriculture among young people? How many new jobs or new young farmers do you expect at the expense of these measures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like a supplement? Here you go, Minister Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u274	Thank you, Mr Member, for the additional question. The plan for this acorn disaster was as follows. As the first in the European Union, I think, or among the first to send a draft Rural Development Programme, which is the basis for the payment of the measures. As soon as the country's papers are signed, this will also become an official draft, which can then be harmonised within two, three weeks, as informal negotiations are under way. We anticipated that the programme would be adopted sometime in June, July, possibly in August. But the catastrophe caused a delay, maybe in a month or two, because we're implementing a new program, that's basically aid in a forest that hasn't been around. This in practice means that we have collected 2% of the money for the forest from all items. This change in the program actually means two months. In practice, however, there will still be calls from the old programme this year, and it is anticipated that by the end of April, a €10 million new call for young takers will be made. I think we're gonna have enough money from the old source this year so we can make a call for repairs on irrigation systems. In fact, it turns out that a number of existing irrigation systems have simply been out of operation for a long time and we are building new ones in advance, it is good to fix this. However, new calls from the new programming scheme worth billions and 100 I think we will be able to implement the end of this year or at the beginning of the next. However, there will be new developments here, and this news is that for technological tenders we have to make a refund, half of the refund by the end of 2018. Which is about a bad billion technology calls, means that there will be a lot of technological calls for agriculture somewhere in early 2015. This means, in practice, that we are already teaching farmers and farmers that they should have projects ready at the time, because then anyone with a good programme will be able to get the money at their disposal. As far as education is concerned, we are not unduly responsible for this area, but we are still implementing two measures. The first step is to co-finance practical education in schools that are also engaged in farming and to try to transfer as many state agricultural land or state forests as possible to school management, free of charge, so that young people have a place to learn. I must say that we have now succeeded a few months ago, that for the first time in the history of Slovenia we have moved to a secondary forestry school, in this particular case in Postojna, the first 50 hectares of state forest to teach children how to work in the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u275	Thank you very much. For the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mag. Mr Dragutin Mate also has a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Minister. I have a very simple question for you, but I'd start with that. You have often talked publicly, in the media, in public performances, as well as in the National Assembly at the competent working bodies about how special it is for you to provide drinking water or to provide funds and to carry out all projects related to cohesion funds, is said to be money from the European Union, with a partial participation of funds from Slovenian municipalities in order to bring drinking water to as many Slovenian homes as possible. Unfortunately, we still have several households that do not have drinking water, as we think in Slovenia, that we all have it. When we look at the realisation of these projects, we can find that we have confirmed projects in 2013 for about 114 million. I want to know: Have you had any meetings at the Ministry where the municipalities would be asked to ensure that these projects are actually implemented within the necessary time to be carried out by November 2015, so that the 114 million euros already provided in the various projects within your ministry can be drawn up? I'm also interested in: What about these projects that are ready to be stocked, as it's called? These projects are also for 113 million and are waiting for some waiting list, but at the same time we have a lot of other projects, which are also within your ministry's competence, which do not run as you might like. I want to know: Do you have a review of this? Do you know how many such projects are either stalling or not being implemented? In this regard, of course, I am interested: What will you do to provide within your ministry money, this 113 million, for projects that are already ready? Where the municipalities already have bank guarantees ready, where they have selected contractors and projects that are practically fully prepared and could perhaps jump into those projects that will not be implemented, or if they could be given some new money that could be redistributed at the Ministry. In my opinion, now is the time to ensure, as I have asked you in writing: Whether and how you will ensure that as many cohesion funds are drawn up for drinking water supply in the period 2007-2020 Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u278	Thank you, Mr Member, for the current question. As you yourself said, the Ministry technically manages 545 million cohesion money for drinking water, dirty water and other priorities. I have repeatedly publicly praised and will also take advantage of this, the decision of the previous government, which at the end of 2012 took a decision over the summit, worth 180 million. Without this decision, it would be clear that cohesion money could not be used. I must say that 2013 for the Ministry of Cohesion has been difficult, since the ministry or we are ministers, we were two, signed co-financing contracts for 300 million euros in one year. It is also true that last year, let's say only in the last two months, so in November and December, we paid off as much co-financing as in the previous year, which was so and so greatest in the whole year together. So things are moving relatively fast, and there is still a lot to be done this year and next year. The fact is, we now have four types of projects. Those who have the basic decision – and they have the right, most also have signed contracts – we have overcommitment projects – we call this type 1, which are for 180 million, who already have the right to spend, issued by the competent authority, that is, the Ministry of Economy. Then we have an additional 200 million for projects that our ministry has technically looked at and has already sent forward as projects that have everything from our point of view; they also have building permits, including guarantees in the background, costs have been incurred, and let us review about 100 million projects at this point. Suma sumarum from the overcommitment not only got 180 million for projects but 500 million. Meetings with municipalities are often held, sometimes also by the presence of three ministries, not only ours, but also the one with the money, it is financial, and the economic ministry as the competent authority. True, it is likely that this year, when local elections are held, the time is such that the congregations will not voluntarily renounce the decisions they have received. This is a problem at this point, there is no legal possibility that decisions that have been granted any year - or 2006, 2007, 2008 or 2009 - will be taken here somewhere - because decisions of such type are impossible to take. The Mayors in general ask that those who have learned or will realize that projects will not be able to either finish or even begin to recognise this and that, where they are taking place, they will make an extension to new cohesion, where they are not just starting to learn about it and that we will allocate this money to some other projects. So at this point, they are resolved from overcommitment 1 – projects that already have decisions and therefore have money allocated. Overcommitment 2, this 200 million, is not yet saved. At this point, there is a very high probability that these decisions can be made – but not from our ministry, but from the competent, we are technical, we are not [[…]] [[Incomprehensible]] the authority — as soon as cohesion 2014-2020 is adopted, because it is a matter of new rights. [[…]] That is why I, too, want the necessary acts with the European Union to be agreed as soon as possible so that things can then move on. Let me make this simple. At the moment, we have about 300 million projects that have not yet been funded or co-financed. However, I would like to say that most of these projects are projects based on clean water or on the cleaning of dirty water. When we look at Slovenia as a whole, projects are being built all over Slovenia, which are likely to have a share of local communities, worth over €400 million, but at this point we are trying to save, at least for the next perspective, the Coast-Kras project. This was stuck because it was simply not possible to obtain service; and because there was no service, construction permits could not be obtained. If we look at it in general, we also have a Suha Krajina project, which is very important. At the same time, we have some other important projects that are within over-commitment 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u280	Thank you, Minister, for that comprehensive answer. I got most of the answers I was expecting. I also wonder if you could tell me, of course, or if you could consider: How would we approach or find levers for those projects that are already approved and where you see – ministries, even mayors see for municipalities – that projects are standing, stopping? In fact, the problem is not just that money will not be pumped or that it has already been received for part of the projects. If they do not complete the project, they will have to pay it back and return it with interest and then suddenly we will have a problem, I suppose, even in the National Assembly, when these congregations are too indebted and so on. Here, together – not only you, but also the finance ministry – need to find some solutions, leverage to move these matters. At the same time, I am also interested in your position and your opinion on: How can projects that are in preparation, which are made, which have all the permits, start tomorrow, be very topical – you yourself mentioned Dry landscape, such as the water supply in Dry landscape, which I know should be prepared, you mentioned it yourself. How can we ensure a phased pumping, some steps with some levers, however, ministers have some levers in their hands, where these levers would try to move projects that are really necessary – even in Crassus, as you said – and those who do not move would somehow force them to draw this money? However, this is the money we need, which lies on our table, if I say so, but only with the right approach do we have to bring things so far as we can get as many households as possible, especially in some areas that are particularly critical, to healthy drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Master of the Jews, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u282	Thank you, too, for this additional question. Before that, I was trying to say that the work had not yet been done. We also deal with daytime problems in an operational way, and some of them are quickly resolved, and some of them are being tried, and we have not yet addressed them. At the moment, the problem in Slovenia is that simply new spending rights should not be issued by the competent ministry. Formally, this quota is a million that has been made available in the old perspective, exhausted or allocated. Since we had for the first time, this is how I estimate, contact with this new cohesion, simply then – I believe also because of the inexperience – the decisions were not such that if something were not done within the time frame, they could not be taken away. We have all the decisions in this country, more or less, that we simply depend on the good will of local communities, which are mostly investors if they decide to return the decision to us voluntarily or in essence for a phase. These discussions are taking place, but the vast majority of us are talking about hundreds of millions — that is, 200 million is now impossible to solve in this way. Because even there, when we're looking at this moment, let's say we find only 50 million reserves in black scenarios. Therefore, the real possibility of issuing decisions and then concluding with the competent minister of the co-financing agreement is the early signature or adoption of a new cohesion 2014-2020, since otherwise the state cannot issue any new decisions on the allocation of funds until we have a new cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u284	Thank you very much. This debate is actually very good. I would not want to ruin the Minister's life, but I do think that, or in the possibility that we have to continue this debate here in Parliament through whether the Minister may decide, and also in the committee, we continue this debate, which would completely satisfy me, we find some common solutions. Some ideas have been given by the Ministry, some ideas can also be found by Members, who in various ways face these issues on the ground. I think that one of the ways that the Minister has already pointed out in this second part of the answer that contracts that have already been concluded should be a major school for the future to conclude contracts in such a way that we can check how the project is running, that we will not go back into similar difficulties in a few years. The fact is that we need to think about it now and do it and prepare for it, so I think we need to continue this debate. Since I wanted to add this, I have used this lever and the opportunity I have, but I will formally propose that we vote to continue this debate on the Minister's response. Not because his answer was inappropriate, but because he wanted this discussion to continue. I will also be pleased if we find leverage in the end and we will also discuss this in the Committee on Agriculture, where we can together find some solutions that will solve matters in advance, and perhaps even now we can find some solutions how some municipalities can – because it is formally their good will, but I believe that ministers have some adjutants in their hands when they can also talk to the mayors by learning that they are not driving the projects and that they will do harm not only to other projects in the country, but will also harm the congregation. That's the biggest problem, because the money they've already taken will, of course, have to pay it back with interest. That would be the worst scenario we could ever have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u285	Thank you, Mr. Mate. It's Mrs. Sonja Ramshak's turn. He has a question for the Secretary of Defense, who is absent, but still.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! Despite the absence of the Minister of Defence, I will ask my oral question, but I would, of course, firstly, express my surprise at the introduction that the Minister of Defence is in an area where conditions are exacerbated from hour to hour and as the Minister of Defence, who does not have this function at the Russian Federation, would certainly be much more important if he were in the country. The content of my oral question is: How do you respond to the allegations arising from the joint statement of the Unions – the Union of Military, Defence and Protection, the Union of Pilots of the Ministry of Defence and the Union of the Ministry of Defence – on the situation in the Slovenian Army addressed to the President of the Republic of Slovenia and to Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in which they point out a number of irregularities that are to take place within the Slovenian Armed Forces? Unlawful promotions of officers and military personnel into higher pay grade, chronism, nepotism, discrimination of professional and civilian members in the Slovenian Army, subjectivity of service ratings or alert that the military elite has subordinated the entire structure and legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. In the past, we have repeatedly warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there are apparently irregularities in the Ministry of Robbery and even more precisely in the Slovenian Army that need to be resolved. This calls on trade unions to re-emphasize the obvious violations of both defence and protection legislation as well as labour law, and in particular violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In this call to the President as commander-in-chief of the armed forces and to Members and Members of the Unions, representatives of the trade unions of the Ministry of Defence also express their resentment at the fact that Members and Members do not perform their functions. I think it's right that a broader analysis is done on these issues. We have recently had a debate on the social situation of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces on the Defence Committee and more than it is necessary to discuss these matters seriously and find common solutions, as the security situation is not far from changing, it can change overnight, and it is right not to face such problems as these mentioned in this call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u287	Thank you very much, Mrs Ramshak. At first, I didn't hear if you wanted [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u288	I'm sorry. Yes, I would like the Minister to answer this question orally at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u289	Okay, then the minister will answer orally at the next meeting. Now it's mag's turn. Ivan Vogrin, who will ask the Justice Minister Dr. Senk Plitchanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Anyway, I'm sorry that you just had to come in these late hours because of my question, but the reasons are two, not irrelevant. The first is that we talked for a year about the so-called golden fiscal rule, which simply speaks about restoring a little bit for our citizens and citizens, that you can no longer spend more in the long term, and not in the medium term, as you have created. Well, now we're doing something completely different. And the second reason is that I should somehow justify my parliamentary salary. Indeed, now many citizens and citizens have very small salaries, some do not even get them, although my speech will not contribute to this, because no one also respects anything, but I may at least have a feeling – feeling, not actually – that I have done something good. Let me tell you why I asked you a question. As early as February, I asked the President of the Government what was the issue with the incorporation of the Golden Fiscal Rule into the Constitution. The President of the Government or her cabinet acts as a mailbox, which sends it to another office. And from another office, I published an answer on my website www.vogrin.eu, which is some kind of bilateral "blossom". Now I specifically ask you, not maliciously, Mr. Minister: If Company 31. 3. does not issue the balance sheet, get the punishment of the director and the company, it was still so, even in my case when we did not give it up, I got it myself. Not Parliament, nor the Government have fulfilled their commitments and adopted by the end of November of the previous year a constitutional law. Minister, you said here and I believe that you even believe that we are the rule of law. In the country of law, people are responsible for breaking the laws. Tell me, I'm specifically interested in your mouth, you're the Justice Minister, what do you think: Who will answer, and who should answer, and if so? Can those in this country who are the highest do what they want? I paid because I didn't give up my balance sheet and thousands of companies are paying fines if they don't hand over something. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u291	Dr. Lulcanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u292	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Mr. Vogrin! Your question raises a number of questions. I think the main issue is that you are concerned because the government has still not proposed to implement a law to implement a golden fiscal rule – if I understand you correctly. In doing so, you have somehow strung a lot of other things down, which are really a problem in this country when it comes to questions as to whether our country is already legal or not. We all try to be as legal as possible, I think it is, and we have a lot of work to do. When it comes to the issue of the law, which in the law, what has recently been enshrined in the Constitution, and as you know, you have been a member of the National Assembly for some time now, it is a question which I am not responsible for. A colleague, Minister of Finance Dr. Chufer, is responsible for this issue. In fact, his ministry is the one that is responsible for finance, as the name of the ministry already says, and also for such a law and for the question of why it is not yet, or what would be similar questions. I'm so sorry. I can't answer that question alone. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress this once again – although on some occasions I have already highlighted this – once again what are the rules of the game that determine the functioning of the state administration, ministers and, in particular, all those who act for public purpose or with public money for public purposes. When it comes to the functioning of the government, the government and the government, it is a fundamental rule that all of us, all ministers and all the rest of us working in the Government and the government, can and can only do what the law expressly authorizes us to do and that we must work. We are not subject to a rule that applies to citizens, citizens, legal persons from the economy, the private sector, an old rule which states that everything that is not explicitly prohibited is permitted. When it comes to the functioning of public authorities, it is just the opposite: we can only do what we are specifically empowered to do. Now this is just some more detailed explanation of why I cannot answer this question of yours. So, I have to stick to my powers, the powers associated with the ministry that I run, and where the issue of the law relating to the fiscal rule does not belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin, would you like another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u294	Yes, Mr. Minister, in fact, you answered in some way. You said the law authorizes us. So, if I understand correctly, you said that the law empowered the Minister of Finance, then don't be surprised if I'm going to re-write the intervention for the Minister of Finance. Then people will be horrified again, but if we have to answer, Mr. Secretary! Look, you actually answered me! At least that's what I understand, because maybe you'll confirm or reject me. Now maybe just a little controversy. You started it this way: we're all trying. Mr. Secretary, in this hard work, I went bankrupt at the company. He lost 4 million company assets, gave his own guarantee, so they cut my salary and so on — in this effort. In this political effort last year, we have indebted the country for 7 billion or 7 thousand million, this year for 2 thousand 500 million so far, and we are still going to be for 5,000; we are lowering people's salaries, we are lowering people's pensions, 130 000 are unemployed – who will answer, Mr. Minister? Look, there's a difference! And until we come to the personal responsibility of politicians, nothing will change completely. And as long as we write about such Members as Vogrin, we are in a bad voice, it will be wrong; not because of such Members, because we are leading the country to bankruptcy. That's why we're in a bad voice with politicians! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u296	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Vogrin! One more time. I have to dement you. I didn't say what you understood I said about Dr. Chufer's colleague. All I said was, who in this government is responsible for financial issues, and it's not me, and it's just my colleague, Chufer. Thus, all financial issues, including those related to the Golden Fiscal Rule, are issues to be addressed. That's what I said, and now I've said it again. But when it comes to what you are pointing out in the first and second implementation of yours – you point out that it is insufficiently designed for this country to actually be legal, that it is insufficiently designed to not just be a politician, I would say that all public officials are more personally responsible for what they are doing, because we are not just public officials. Public officials are still a whole species, for example, judges are public officials. In short, all those who work with public money, for citizens and citizens, should really be even more aware that we are doing this. So that we do this first with money that is not ours, but with the money of our citizens and citizens, and that we do it for the benefit of citizens and citizens. This awareness and, in particular, the action in this direction is too small in our country, and in this part I agree with you that all of us, including you Members of Parliament and Members, have much work to do in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u297	Thank you very much. We can move on to the next question. Mag. Majda Potter has a question for the Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u298	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleague and colleague! It's not the first time I've asked about a fan activity. Cultural societies are one of the oldest forms of organised civil society in Slovenia, and they also pointed out this at a consultation on 7 February 2014, when they prepared a consultation on the role of amateur culture entitled What Culture Celebrates. One of the facts to be pointed out was the agreement on an alliance for culture. Such agreements on the Alliance for Culture would also be needed at the implementation level, not only at the symbolic and substantive level, because what is lacking is, in fact, money for the functioning of a lover's culture. The consultation drew attention to the fact that over the last three years the area of amateur culture has actually lost more than a quarter of the resources it once had to work, and that the situation may soon deteriorate, but in fact, almost all the reserves that cultural societies could use for their activities are in place. I cannot help but say that when we adopted the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture, we emphasized the importance of the common Slovenian cultural space, where amateur culture plays an invaluable role. Similarly, in this country, cultural societies that do not belong to the associations of members of the Slovenian language are cultural societies of other members of the peoples and nationalities who live in the country of Slovenia. Therefore, the loss of these positions is an extremely sensitive issue, so I ask you, Sir, dear Minister: How will the Ministry of Culture maintain or strengthen the position of a lover's culture and how will it strengthen the position of a lover's culture in the common Slovenian cultural space? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Dr. Grills, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u300	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I thank you for this question. It is true that amateur cultural activity is one of the most important and must be recognised, including one of the most successful cultural networks operating in our area, which is successful also because demographically far ranges to very different places, to very different regions and thus to its network, which is cared for by about 90 employees under the Public Fund for Cultural Activities, covers very diverse cultural offers. 4 thousand 900 cultural societies are registered in the field of amateur cultural activities, bringing together about 100,000 active members. The Public Fund for Cultural Activities itself organises a number of events, together with society, along with the Union of Cultural Organisations, about 2 000 400 a year, and at these events alone gathers about 500 000 visitors. It is therefore a network that operates both at the level of support for production in different areas of activity, at the level of education and, of course, at the level of promotion of cultural activity. The National Programme for Culture has set four very clear objectives for which I can already see that not only the letters are on paper, but they are also being realized. The first objective, while preserving the scope of this further improvement in the quality and visibility of production in the area of amateur culture, is focused on the creation of the so-called cultural activities study centre and is already included in the Youth Guarantee scheme and we already know and can say in the figures that we will allocate 800 000 euros for it in 2014 and 2015. The study centre is extremely important and is a development project because it will educate young mentors for amateur cultural societies. This will, on the one hand, provide new opportunities for career development for young people and, on the other hand, effectively ensure the qualitative growth of the cultural culture throughout Slovenian cultural space. This is also a link to another objective for which we are also looking for real opportunities for funding under those European funds linked to cross-border programmes. In fact, the amateur cultural activity is also extremely diverse in Slovenian Hungarians, especially in the segment where we are talking about congregation activities, and in the segment where we are talking about folklore, and in particular in the development of theatre activities. In the context of the creation of the National Programme for Culture and Visitation in Overseas Communities and in several discussions with them, the Public Fund for Cultural Activities has been empowered to prepare very concrete projects where a rich congregational activity in terms of excellent performers, as well as in terms of excellent mentors and professional staff, would in some way be a creative home for the development of mixed societies. The third objective, which is linked to the National Programme for Culture, is to at least 100 inter-resortary development projects, which will promote amateur culture as an important factor in the creation of a creative society. Here we focus on all those activities that are linked to cultural and artistic education, it is said to be that segment that tries to connect culture with educational processes. In this context, the project implemented by the Public Fund for Cultural Activities, a cultural school which already includes 140 Slovenian primary schools, is an example of good practice, on which we intend to build in advance. Well, the last goal that I have to mention is digitisation, tied again to a very successful and rich congregational heritage. A concrete project ahead of us: 100,000 units, of which 90,000 are congregational units, 5,000 are instrumental music units and 5,000 are from other music areas. This is also in the implementation of the Public Fund for Cultural Activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Master of Prosperity, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u302	Thank you for that part of the answer. Mr Minister, in other words or otherwise, a large majority of these activities have been created, which you are over four objectives, perhaps only the first one, through the Youth Scheme, did not work. Others have already served in some way in the past. But what is concerned is whether this reduction in resources, such as the 3% reduction of employees in the Public Fund for Cultural Activities – we passed a law on this agreement a few years ago and regulated the legal position of the State where it enters into a relationship with the Union of Cultural Associations, which is civil society, but the Alliance has also signed the State Council. But what I'm asking you now is that we can't overlook the problems associated with copyright. It is true that an agreement has been reached with SAZAS, but it is still necessary to set aside money, for example, for an open anthem in the National Assembly, even if it is sung by a primary school choir. Here remains the problem of how to arrange for the financing of large artistic corps for a long time, the most significant are the fate of APZ Tone Tomšič and the French Marolt Academic Folklore Group, as well as the Carmina Slovenica, but it is a group that achieves great success. That's why I want to know: Do you have in mind a systemic legal solution for regulating the area of a lover’s culture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Dr. Grills, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u304	Thank you very much. It is true that in recent years, when we look at the state budget, the funding of the Public Fund for Cultural Activities has been drastically reduced. In 2011, these funds, for example, amounted to almost 5.3m euros, fell to a weak 4.5m euros in 2012, to a good 4m euros in 2013 and 2014 this year, to a minimum of 3.8m euros. Of course, we must say that the draft budget for this area in 2015 or the budget adopted shows a better picture, we are seeing growth again, and it is therefore very important that what I said in the first reply is that the public fund's activity in that area, which is focused on development, in that part where it focuses on young people, in that part of the brief, where the objectives that are aligned with European policy are linked in the next period also very specifically to the acquisition of European funds. In particular, the Youth Guarantee case is an example which, of course, is not included in this state funding budget, where it is only an activity and funding of concrete programmes, but it is already one of those development objectives that we have managed to achieve this year and which will be this year, I hope, also bring results. The combination of European funds and state resources is necessary here. I believe that the Public Fund for Cultural Activities will be successful in this regard. Secondly, of course, it must be said that amateur cultural activity is extremely strongly involved in the cultural activities of local communities. Local communities are also an extremely important funder of this activity. In view of the fact that the new umbrella law on culture has made it clear that local communities need local cultural programmes for the next medium term, I am convinced that in each local community this is also an opportunity to think thoroughly about the way in which amateur cultural activities are involved in their cultural life and their cultural development, and here we are very much encouraged by the communities to take this thought and to place their cultural activities in a diverse environment as a key. In addition to librarianism, this activity is, in fact, the only activity in a wide variety of local environments, according to the number of municipalities we have. Or are we considering special legal arrangements — not yet. If the initiative for a concrete solution comes from below, we will also consider this. However, it is crucial for us, on the basis of the examples of large parade horses, that the policy of the Public Fund for Cultural Activities is profiled in the next period, as is the case in the theatre in the case of the Šentjakob theatre with the transition to multi-annual funding, this should also happen in this year. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Minister. Time's up. And the last question today is for Dr Virant, the absent Minister of the Interior, and Mr Borut Ambrožič will put it on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u306	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Despite the absence of the Minister, I would like to ask a question and, at the outset, I ask for an oral answer at the next meeting. The question relates to the Public Finance Balance Act, which was actually adopted by the previous coalition and somehow hit the current coalition, which is why Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior, who is also in charge of the public sector and the area of local self-government, asks: Does the Ministry have data already collected, and how many public officials in the public sector and local self-government have been retired under Articles 188 and 266 of the Public Finance Balance Act since its entry into force to date? As you are probably aware, Article 188 of the ZUJF regulates the termination of the employment contract and therefore, in accordance with this provision, the employment contract terminates the public servant in the event that he fulfils the conditions for obtaining the right to an old-age pension under Article 36, paragraph 1, in conjunction with Article 54, paragraph 1, and Article 430 paragraph 4, paragraph 4, or Article 402, paragraph 4. Article 188 of the ZUJF also regulates the status of public servants who, under the conditions laid down by the ZUJF for the termination of the contract of employment, shall also fulfil the conditions after its entry into force on the day of the entry into force of the ZUJF. All these articles are intended, as defined by the public, to somehow force the retirement of public servants, so it would be interesting to hear from the analysis of the adopted law: How many public servants have been retired, as already stated in the question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-03-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrožich. We have also taken your oral response initiative. With this we have exhausted all the questions, so I am terminating this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 6 March 2014, when we will also decide on the proposed decisions in the National Assembly as part of the vote. I hereby adjourn the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you all so much for being here and having a good trip home!
