ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Melita Župevc by 12 noon, Mrs Polonca Komar, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Dr. Andreja Črnak Maglic, mag. Barbara Žgajner, Mrs Aleksandra Osterman, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Alenka Pavlič, Mr. Bojan Starman, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Mr. Zvonko Černač, Mr. Roberto Battelli, Dr. László Göncz until 16:00, Mr. Michael Prevc from 13:00 onwards, Mr. Matjaž Han from 12.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is the first defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Call and Vocational Education. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the law, Mateja Pučnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! At the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have tabled an amendment to the Vocational and Vocational Education Act with the aim of linking the educational system as best as possible with the needs of the economy. In recent years, we still face low enrolment in vocational secondary schools. The decline of many companies in recent years has led to a decline in employers' interest in vocational education and has also led to a decline in the reputation of certain professions. At the same time, we are facing a great deal of structural unemployment for young people and, on the other hand, a lack of certain professions that are already disappearing from the region. In order to avoid youth unemployment and at the same time provide technological and craft services, we want to reconnect the education system and the economy. We therefore want to upgrade or supplement existing vocational education legislation in order to allow for a dual system with the existing system. The dual system combines apprenticeship, i.e. practical work in the company, and vocational education in the school, which is a theoretical part and we have already carried out it in Slovenian schools years ago, and today it is the most successful in Germany and Austria. The period in which we already had a dual system was too short to be able to live in its fullness, and one of the reasons that it died is also in the introduction of inter-enterprise education centres. Schools and inter-enterprise educational centres offer a good theoretical and also part of practical knowledge, but it must be acknowledged that certain practical skills will never be offered to the extent that craftsmen and entrepreneurs can do so at any time. Students will be able to resume their work immediately in their industry without needing additional training months, which entail additional costs for both businesses and students. Allow me to present in a few points the essential solutions that we are proposing in the law. We therefore introduce a dual system into secondary vocational education in addition to the current school model, of course where possible. The essence of the dual system is that the employer assumes responsibility for the apprentice and thus establishes a culture of good staff training. The apprentices in the company have at least 60% of the practical education, at least 50% of the pupils in the vocational school and at least 20% of the students in the four-year vocational school, because we believe that as much practical work as possible should be offered to all students during education. The apprentice will also be able to become a new unemployed adult, as additional skills and retraining are essential. The apprentice’s time in practical education is considered during working hours, which will certainly be a good stimulus in deciding on vocational education. We are aware of the need to correct and amend the Labour Relations Act to ensure that contributions are paid. At first, the State would provide for the payment of the contributions by drawing on European funds and after 2020, by its own resources, the State would provide for approximately the same as for the parents. There is plenty of time before the law is in force for these changes to the labour law. We are aware that the law has a major financial impact, so we set its entry into force in 2016. In all of this, the successful use of European funds will, of course, be crucial. The economy is still in a long-term recession and it is difficult to pay the prizes for apprentices and mentors. Therefore, the bulk of this is transferred once and for all to the country. By 2020, the country would have paid the prize to the apprentices in full by using European funds through smart specialisation and then part of it would have been paid by the employer and part of the country. Dear Members and Members! Given that you have coalition partners both in the previous and the current coalition agreements, it is also stated that your goal is to link the education system as closely as possible with the needs of the labour market and that you are also writing about the reinstatement of apprenticeship in vocational education, we obviously all agree on this point and we have the opportunity and the opportunity today for words to move to action. Therefore, we propose to the parliamentary groups that they support the law at first reading and that, if necessary, we correct it together, supplement it and bring it into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you, too. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Mirko Pecarič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u4	Dear President, Members, Members of Parliament, good afternoon! The proposed amendments to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, submitted by the Group of Members, with the first signed Jozet Tank, renew the legal system of apprenticeship by summarizing in almost unchanged content the section on apprenticeship as set out in the Vocational and Vocational Education Act 1996. On the contrary, the implementation of this law in 1996-2005 showed that such regulated apprenticeships had not achieved their objectives, which led to the Ministry's assessment at the time, led by Dr Milan Zver, showing that the appropriate conditions on the part of employers had not been created so that apprenticeships could be successfully developed. It should be noted, however, that the legal solutions at the time were in line with the Labour Relations Act, while this matter was eliminated in 2013 when the new Labour Relations Act entered into force. The introduction of the apprenticeship system means, on the basis of a changed attitude towards practical education, as the basic responsibility for apprentice education is transferred to the employer. Examples of apprenticeship, also known by other comparable countries in the European Union, in particular the dual system known in the German-speaking countries of Central Europe, point out that this is primarily a question of apprentice status, which is equivalent or comparable to the status of worker. This also leads to a legal regulation of an area that is not entirely school legislation. In particular, the Federal Republic of Germany is taking a large-scale initiative in the European Union to make the dual system more widely applicable in other Member States of the European Union, which our country has also joined. The experience we have in Slovenia shows that a consensus between the social partners and large-scale incentives by public funds is needed to ensure the effective functioning of apprenticeships. Discussions with organisations in particular, employers at work carried out by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport have shown that employers are aware of the importance of dual systems or apprenticeships, but that they see, for one time in this system, in particular the new obligations for employers and the costs transferred by the system to them, but not the added value that would justify these costs. They therefore expect large-scale State incentives or incentives from public funds. The proposed law is based on the belief that a change of law can regulate the whole issue of apprenticeship. Contrary to the applicants, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is preparing a proposal for a law or a proposal for amendments to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, which opens up the possibility of introducing apprenticeships only if the conditions for public funding are met and other status relationships and the resulting obligations of employers and the State are fully regulated. This concept was also agreed in the partnership dialogue when a new social agreement was drawn up. The financial implications foreseen by the proposed amendment of the law do not have a real basis either in the state budget or in the European Cohesion Funds. The proposed text of the law remains conceptual in the current framework, as it defines the rights of students and procedures for the expression of educational measures. So this is the second part of this bill. On the contrary, the concept is that educational action and procedures, which are an extremely educational issue, should be regulated at school level. In particular, exclusion from school should be regulated when it comes to limiting the right to education, which is protected by international conventions and by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, of course, the law should define the worst violations which constitute a restriction on the student's right to education. Exclusion procedures and legal protection only need to be regulated. Recently, all levels of the education system have shown signs of an increase in the so-called fictitious entry, not from education, but from the social pressures of young people and their parents. The proposed law does not address these issues in sufficient detail. This is a very sensitive area, as it must not happen that, in order to prevent abuse of status, they restrict freedom to education. A proposal is therefore prepared at the Ministry, which regulates this matter more comprehensively and in detail. In view of the above arguments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education, which has been tabled by the Group of Members in the legislative procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will put its draft law into the legislative process, which will regulate the proposed topic in a broader systemic sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the middle of the last year, the European Commission or both Commissioners responsible for the fields of education and work announced the launch of the European Alliance for apprenticeships. The Alliance is conceived as one of the measures taken by the European Union against youth unemployment and aims to improve the quality and offer of apprenticeships in the European Union through a broad partnership of key stakeholders in the field of employment and education. The aim of the measure is also to change the attitude towards apprenticeship at the same time to define the most successful apprenticeship programmes in the European Union and to develop an appropriate solution for individual Member States. Christian Democrats at all levels of our work point out that there is a need for closer integration of theory and practice in education, especially in secondary, vocational and higher education. Professional, vocational and secondary education play an important role in the development of staff for the development of municipalities, regions and countries. We advocate linking theory with practice and achieving higher levels of knowledge. We are particularly aware of this in a tight economic situation when the last doubters realize that the Slovenian education system does not know and cannot respond to the needs of the Slovenian economy. According to our assessment, it is too strong and self-sufficient and is not sufficiently targeted to respond to the needs of the economy. That is why, in our programme, Christian Democrats propose the development of various vocational education programmes and the integration of the school system with employers. The bill before us is aimed at introducing a system of apprenticeships when the employer is carrying out education together with the school. The apprentice and the school shall be prepared by the employer with a personal educational plan that supports both the standards of knowledge and competence and the apprentice's strong learning qualities. The apprentice will thus acquire competence in practical education. It is also important to us that the social partnership remains the foundation of vocational and vocational education. In countries with established vocational education and training systems such as Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria, youth unemployment is lower. This finding is confirmed by the Commission in its employment and social situation reviews in Europe, which show that apprenticeships and traineeships are often a jumping board for permanent employment. When we read the opinions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposed law of colleagues from the SDS, we see that Slovenia is unfortunately still in stone age in this area. Although the European Commission has identified apprenticeships as a key element of the Youth Guarantee proposed by the Commission in December 2012 as part of the Youth Employment Package, it rejects and considers them unfit for Slovenia in its opinion. Given the unacceptable level of youth unemployment, it is essential that those responsible for education and employment work together to facilitate the transition of young Europeans from school to work life, European Commissioners also say. That sounds so familiar, but unfortunately the current government does not hear that call. Members and Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the proposal to amend the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you. Magistress Lejla Hercegovac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Act on Vocational and Vocational Education in Regular Procedure in First reading was presented by the SDS Group of Members. In the debate we had at the coordination meeting and with representatives of the government, we agreed that this law is certainly one step forward in vocational and professional education, but, you know, we are all in fact aware and we want every law to be made in a systematic way. As a result, Positive Slovenia will not be able to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u10	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! In Slovenia today, when you listen to young people, you usually no longer hear the wishes that have been throughout all generations and are common in all other European countries when young people set their goals to be a doctor, to be a good mechanic, to be anything. Young people talk like this: "And you will go to Austria, but then you will go to Germany?, You will go to New Zealand, Australia..." And so on. No one thinks about the perspectives at home. And you will not believe, in a very similar way the Slovenian entrepreneurs also think. When they talk about whether already opened accounts and additional companies or just transferred business headquarters at least to Austria, they are usually already in Germany, some of them much longer. And that's how it goes, what the future of every country represents. This is where the long-standing governments of the Transitional Left brought this country. And one way to overcome this problem is to step out of the educational paleosoics, which is so typical of Slovenia, where new and new mountains of young people are always deciding on high schools, then go to social studies and then enrich the unemployed at the employment institution. So it looks like an average Slovenian study. With us, the proportion of those involved in high school and the proportion of those attending higher education is uncomparably higher than in neighbouring Austria. There, however, the employment of young people is incomparably higher than in Slovenia. And there's obviously something really wrong here. And in Slovenia, however, there is a time when we could stop discovering hot water and blind ourselves that Slovenia is a brilliant, world-class specialty that can be regulated in its own way, just as the transition left has always proved beautiful to Slovenia and the Slovenes, so that it retains its monopolies, because in fact it is all game, so that some universities, some secondary schools, are strengthened, everything else that would represent healthy competition, but should be destroyed in advance. Just like in the area of entrepreneurship. What the current Prime Minister has put at the heart of her work must be strengthened by public administration. And I've asked her ten times to tell me one country in the world where they solved the economic crisis by strengthening the public administration, and I still haven't received an answer, and maybe that Friday Congress was the answer to that question, but another time. Once she's gone, she'll probably be able to tell us what it's like to leave. Linking the economy and those who are educated is a model that is established in Austria, which is known there by more than 40% of young people who are simply educated as apprentices in companies, are familiar with the life, actual activity of businesses, are also familiar with entrepreneurship as such and, on the other hand, acquire the appropriate knowledge that they can then successfully sell on the labour market, which they can live with normally. In Slovenia, mountains of money are used to serve some deserving professors in some very well-known universities, and I will not list them to produce students and then graduates who simply do not have any employment anywhere. Even for some professions that have no comparison in the world and cannot be employed elsewhere. And when we put in the SDS a proposal for a law that does, however, solves this in a European comparable way, Europe as a whole is also committed to the enforcement of the dual system, to the exercise of apprenticeship, the government is committed to that common position, which is only a reflection of political prestige, that this law is not well prepared for the government to one day draw up a comprehensive law. Yeah, good morning. What have you been doing? We only prepared this law because we were waiting for the government to come with this law, but it wasn't there. But time shows that things are not only burning, but that Slovenia is ahead of the national disaster. Once again, what you have done with this debt, because you have literally destroyed every perspective in people, because you have destroyed the perspective of entrepreneurship and now everyone is running out, young, young families, entrepreneurs, everything that represents in the most positive sense the word of the nation's elite, and at the same time rounding up political prestige, that is something that may say very much about you, but unfortunately also tells what the future of this country will be, if something is not substantially changed. And that's why we need to introduce a dual system, not what we refuse, because one day we'll prepare. Today's law is here, this law can be a foundation, this law could be amended, it just needs to be given the opportunity to go through the legislative process at all. Because time is gone, ladies and gentlemen! 28.8 billion reasons to tell you that this time is gone. This is 28.8 billion euros in debt that you have accumulated on the head of Slovenia. Of this, about 20 billion net reach is the two governments of the transition left, Borut Pahorje and Alenka Bratušek. And so don't say there's no money. Money is for everything possible and impossible nonsense that you have done, and obviously it is not for what the future of the country represents – for the introduction of such an education that will be European comparable, and which is essential, which will connect the economy and the education and youth system into a unit that will then give professions, knowledge, and skills to encourage in young people those qualities that then enable them to work, best in businesses where they would also acquire this education. This is a model that Austria uses usefully, so Austria is much more developed than Slovenia. That's one of those reasons, too. This is a model known by Germany. According to the constitutional system, Slovenia belongs to the Roman-German constitutional space. And it is clear that Austria, Germany, should be our example. But the old question comes up again. Yeah, what works there isn't suitable for Slovenia, maybe we'll work something out in one piece, something different. That's not an argument, ladies and gentlemen! Time is running out and time is running out. This is why it is high time to put in place a dual education system and to redirect a large proportion of young people, those who have these qualities, who have these abilities to help them develop them, and to gain the education that will then actually benefit them in life, with which they will be able to build their well-being and well-being of the country as a whole. To produce an enormous number of highly educated people who then have nowhere to go, some even with such an education that is not at all comparable to that in any Western country and are simply not employable there, it makes no sense, it costs tremendously. I also believe that this allows those deserving professors at those three universities that you claim are enough for all of Slovenia to have a very, very comfortable and very, very good life. But it doesn't make it possible for this country to have a good life. This country needs a dual education system so that young people can see the perspective in it again, so that we can educate people for the professions the country needs, which Slovenian entrepreneurship and the economy needs, so that entrepreneurship can also see the perspective here and now. Not that everywhere we go to the field when we're dating a group of MPs, entrepreneurs say, "You know, then we get university-educated engineers, and we don't know what to do with these people. They come from high school, they may be of some use, but most of what they give them as knowledge is completely irrelevant to us. We need two, three years to re-educate them, it costs a terrible deal." This is what the education system looks like in practice when an educator comes from the Slovenian so-glorified education system into a company. And what we just heard was a laugh. Just before that in words, now direct, on the part of those who can't think otherwise. Take your own time and ask entrepreneurs what they think of those who come as a direct product from the Slovenian system of education in secondary or higher education. What entrepreneurship needs is people who, as soon as they finish their education, can become fully involved in their process, because only in this way can they see the interest there to devote themselves to these people. Not knowing if he's going to find someone on the labour market, he's going to spend a few more years training him to be able to work normally at the company. It's just a doubling of costs, and then the only point is that it's well established in a way that's obviously already working in practice. What does two, three years of additional education in the company mean? This is exactly what is in Austria or Germany's apprenticeship. Only that there is a contribution from the State, one part of which is then in the part that the company cannot do is the school, and finally, when it completes its education, usually such a student or apprentice stays in the company where he has completed his education. If it turns out there, if it turns out to be a good component of the team — and in many, many cases it is. This system works and is productive and this system of Slovenia is urgently needed. Therefore, the proposal we have put forward in the SDS is more than justifiable and time-consuming for its implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr State Secretary with co-workers and co-workers, Members and Members. Before I mention in eight points the reasons why the Social Democrats of this law will not support me to raise an introductory, very important question. In the introductory chapter, which sets out the text reasons for the SDS proposing the law, this is a literal transcript of the material presented to us by the Ministry of Education at the time of Mr Turk's ministry. Here is the question of whose property are the proposals of the law. Are these some political options or are they government-owned? Six pages of the text is literally a copy of the law I'm talking about. I am now taking on another fundamental consideration; national legislation is left to how it will regulate the field of education. Indeed, education as an important priority is also recorded by the European Union. The European Union's demand to connect education and the labour market cannot be overlooked. However, it does not show that the objectives set by the European Union as a percentage of those to achieve secondary education as well as higher education do not appear to be overlooked. It is impossible to agree to the thesis that a solution can be seen in a dual system, because apprenticeship does not lead to complete secondary education. Therefore, in terms of what education and the level of education young people should attain, weigh and establish a vision. This must be linked to the national consensus. One cannot offer some hypnotic solutions as a universally saving solution. Otherwise, how is it that in Austria and elsewhere our graduates are so pleased, whether they are graduates of vocational education, vocational education, or higher education? Only we claim that our education is of no value. That's a very interesting position. And especially interesting because it comes from the kind of parliamentary group that has already twice had a school minister. And now let me state why the Social Democrats' Group will not support the SDS proposal on amendments and additions to the Vocational and Professional Education Act. Firstly, because this proposal is the result of a confused and hypnotic school policy of SDS. The Law on Vocational and Vocational Education proposes changes that once existed in marriage. It's about apprenticeship. These were part of the law from 1996 to 2006, when these provisions were deleted from the law by a completely new law of Milan Zveda. In addition to the apprenticeship provisions, several other corrections were included in the proposal. The preliminary provisions of the 2006 draft law state, inter alia,: "The dual system introduced by the 1996 law implies a special apprenticeship relationship which is not entirely comparable to those of comparable countries where it is a specific form of employment." Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia were critical of these legal solutions shortly after the entry into force of the law, expecting budgetary resources or other incentives, such as tax reliefs or other forms of incentives for those who practice apprentice training. The inadequate exercise of apprentice status was highlighted by evaluation studies carried out by foreign experts under the Phare Mocca programme. These studies have also shown that there is a need to modernise education programmes more thoroughly to obtain secondary and secondary vocational education. The explanation for the new Article 5, which provided for the joint implementation of education between schools and businesses, stated that "when the dual system is abandoned as a specific programme form of vocational education with the special status of apprentice, the participation of the school and the employer is established as a compulsory means of education which can successfully provide vocational and professional education aimed at ensuring professional capacity". In May 2006, the National Assembly held a debate on the new Act on Vocational and Professional Education, which introduced these provisions, which the SDS wanted to reactivate by means of this proposal, and were then transported. Let me quote from Minister Milan Zvero's reasoning on what the current law is bringing, "We particularly want our schools to be more responsive to the needs of the economy. [[…]] We also want more cooperation from the social partners or greater involvement of the social partners in the field of vocational and vocational education, not just the two chambers which need to participate in both planning, design and implementation of the programme. In short, this response or cooperation with the social partners must be as close as possible if the school system or our offer is to satisfy the economy." And where is the coordination with the social partners now? Well, I could also quote to you, for example, Mr Michael Prevc, what he said in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group and Mr Grims, what he said in the opinion of the SDS Group. It is therefore simply a matter of enforcing something that the SDS has deleted from the 2006 law. The second reason is because it's old solutions because they didn't work out. It is recalled that the proposed solutions were in law between 1996 and 2006 and proved inadequate. It also states in the White Paper that in the field of vocational and professional education, there are two types of vocational education in Finland, school and apprenticeship, while in France, Austria and Germany there are three types of vocational education, the school and apprenticeship forms that prepare for entry into the labour market and the school form that prepares for entry into tertiary education. In Slovenia we can compare two types of general education with Austria and Germany, but not in terms of types of vocational and vocational education, since apprenticeship in Slovenia has not been established. In the school year 2009-2010 we had only 56 enrolled apprentices. In Germany, the state and federal countries encourage employers to open training places for apprentices. In 2009, €14 million was earmarked for the subsidy. Well, it is interesting that the applicants themselves mentioned 20,000 potential apprentices, in our proposal, and in this proposal, which we are considering today, the SDS mentions 10,000 apprentices. The comparison of the population is negligible, I believe, according to this. Nor can it be overlooked that apprenticeship in Finland, which has one of the most successful school models, is intended as an alternative form of adult education. And let me just add what the proponents have also ignored, we have one of the lowest percentages of impoverishment in European education systems in Slovenia. Only a few percent of primary schoolchildren do not continue secondary education. This should also be borne in mind when dealing with changes in the school system. The third reason is that, in coalition coordination, there is already a draft amendment to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. The apprentice status provision lays down the legal basis for the apprenticeship to be placed in the system. In addition, the Ministry's proposal summarises the vast majority of the solutions that were prepared during the ministerial period of Žiga Turka and were presented just before the end of the second Janša government to our parliamentary group. While some of them are also part of the SDS proposal, they are not updated and are therefore rather incomplete. The fourth reason is that apprentice status needs to be regulated in the Labour Relations Act. The legal solutions before 2006 were also in line with the Labour Relations Act, and this material was removed from it in 2013. The introduction of the apprenticeship system means, on the basis of a changed attitude towards vocational education, as the basic responsibility for apprentice education is transferred from school to the employer. Examples of apprenticeships known by other countries in the European Union, in particular the dual system known in the German-speaking countries of Central Europe, such as Austria, Switzerland and Germany, remind us that this is primarily a question of the status of apprentice, which is equivalent or at least comparable to the status of worker. This also leads to a legal regulation of an area which is not primarily school legislation. The fifth reason is that the proposal is not in line with the partners it should be with. The experience we have in Slovenia from the period when apprenticeship was an integral part of the vocational education system in the Republic of Slovenia shows that a consensus between the social partners and large-scale incentives from public funds are needed for the successful functioning of apprenticeship. It appears that employers are aware of the importance of the dual system or apprenticeship at all levels of the educational system, but for the time being they see in this system in particular new obligations for employers, the costs of the system for them, wages or rewards, contributions, other benefits, training equipment, insurance, mentoring and so on, and not the added value to justify these costs. The sixth reason is that the law is not to enter into force until 1 September 2016, which is an additional proof of the lack of seriousness of the proposal. The seventh reason is because they don't even have the basic financial coverage. Every year we would need €70 million, and by 2020 the state budget will be entirely covered. The State would also fully cover the costs of selecting employers by 2020. The financial implications therefore do not have a real basis either in the existing adopted budgets or in the European Cohesion Funds. The fact that they are setting the entry into force in 2016 is a purely banal reason why they should have the resources envisaged in the budget and they are not. Then why not let the regulation of this area be left to the one who will also take care of the provision of financial resources, which is certainly the executive branch of the authority which is also obliged to prepare basic laws of a systemic nature? And the eighth reason for refusing is that the proposal does not fully address certain other solutions, as well as educational concepts in school and fictitious entries, which will also be regulated by the government proposal. The question of educational plans is thus a chapter for itself, which is likely to be under way. These are therefore the reasons why the Group of Social Democrats of this proposal will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Undersecretary, co-worker, co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Professional Education, which was tabled by the largest opposition party, came among the Members just in the period when the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport was also in the final stage of preparing a proposal for amending the same law. According to the data, the draft government proposal is intended to bring about more comprehensive changes in vocational and professional education, in which social, economic and social changes have taken root over the past 20 years, making it unattractive and unfortunately unwarranted. The government proposal was also coordinated with stakeholders during the preparatory phase, and it would therefore make sense to support it and, if necessary, to complement it. Otherwise, the main point of the amendment under consideration is the re-implementation of the apprenticeship system. We support the return of apprenticeship in the National Charter in principle, but we point out the potential problems that may arise in practice, as there is a great deal of question whether there is sufficient number of employers to be prepared for such a system. In addition to teaching cities and expressed interest, they should also have appropriate knowledge. The latter is particularly important in the initial phase of apprenticeship, when the apprentice does not contribute to the work, but can also represent a burden for employers. So until there is enough room for employers, it is also wise to think about teaching workshops or apprenticeships. Such and similar problems would most likely arise in practice in the re-implementation of the apprenticeship system, so we suggest to the Ministry in advance that the law be applied gradually or with a certain transitional period. With regard to the amendment under consideration, we cannot go beyond the views and arguments of the Government, which notes that the proposed amendment to the law almost unchanged summarises the section on apprenticeship in the 1996 Vocational and Vocational Education Act, which is not intended to achieve its objectives precisely because the relevant conditions on the part of employers have not been created so that apprenticeship can be successfully developed. Therefore, the future of the apprenticeship system also depends on the country's agreement with the social partners, and at this point it is not clear at the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have an extremely important topic on the agenda, which should be discussed by both Members and all those responsible in the executive branch of the Authority and education or the scientific research profession and the economy more frequently. This is about the content that is crucial for the development of the Slovenian state, society and the economy in the future, and we must by no means sweep them under carpets or, as the current government does, seal our eyes to the extent that it is in this area, it is according to professional and professional education, everything in its best order. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we claim that this is not yet the case. The fundamental reform of the Slovenian educational system throughout the vertical and from primary school to tertiary education is essential. Finally, we have been reminded of this for some time by the negative trend of falling on the competitiveness scale. In the context of this reform, it is also necessary to check secondary vocational and vocational education, which, in our view, is far from performing its function, and consequently the interest in entering such programmes has been falling for many years. In order to achieve a greater degree of popularity of such education, however, we must first encourage an interest in basic school-based technical and technological content. This will only be achieved when the subjects provide a higher number of or such content and a horizontal link between theoretical subjects in the field of science and technological technical subjects, so that we can link the theory to practice in the elementary school itself and thus encourage students to take an interest in technical content. We need to start to imagine that the future is also in the professions where they will also get their hands dirty, if I can put it that way, or in the professions that will provide them with employment. As a result, entry into vocational and technical education programmes would also be increased, and the economy would gain a great deal. The fact is that on the one hand we have an extremely large number of highly educated people who do not find a job suitable for their education, while on the other hand we hear successful development oriented companies every day, most of them are exporters who lack special skills, knowledge that the Slovenian school system hardly offers anymore because they are not popular. Although employment with these skills and skills is ensured, the demand for them exceeds the supply. Therefore, the introduction of the apprenticeship system into the Slovenian educational system, as regulated by this proposed amendment to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education, is an appropriate response to this current crisis, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We believe that the introduction of a type of dual education system is needed mainly from the point of view of ensuring the long-term stability of certain economic sectors. The positive examples of some countries, such as Austria, Switzerland, Germany, Finland, which have a dual system, clearly show that this is the direction in which our school system should be directed. It probably does not need to be emphasized that these countries are among the most economically successful countries in Europe. As the Government has said in its opinion, a consensus between the social partners and large-scale incentives from public funds is needed for the effective functioning of apprenticeships. Employers are aware of the importance of the dual system or apprenticeship at all levels of the educational system, but the introduction of this is somewhat feared mainly by increasing costs and, of course, also by commitments. They therefore expect large-scale incentives from public funds. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as well as the drafters of the law, we estimate that a public funding solution is possible from the funding perspective 2014-2020, so the social partners should now clearly agree on how apprenticeship is introduced and the inclusion of it in the relevant operational programmes, thus setting out a way of financing from European funds. As it is said, the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be undermined by the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education as appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present! In the party and in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are convinced that the only right thing is that the education system is closely linked to the economy. It also states its situation in the employment institution, which should also be a reason for sound action in the field of all levels of education. That there is a discrepancy between the education of job seekers and the needs of the labour market and that this mismatch needs to be addressed, both educational institutions and employers agree. It is also a fact that, after completion of education, either at vocational, secondary or university levels, the economic sector in particular notes that the acquired knowledge is insufficient and does not meet the needs and requirements of modern work and production processes. Therefore, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are convinced that dialogue with the economy and the economy in the design of educational programmes is essential to identify development trends and needs for staff and to plan such quality of learning outcomes and competences that students will be employed immediately after school or that they can continue to be educated. Employers who practice practical work training have a major impact on the further development of young people and their successful careers and, consequently, on their lives. Connecting education and practical training to work is one of the most important areas in which young people are brought into the work process and their employment. In EU Member States with dual vocational education systems, youth unemployment is also low. In cases of good practices established in EU Member States, we will introduce a vocational education system based on the apprenticeship approach. We have set up coalition partners in an agreement on cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2015. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the reintroduction of dual forms of education in vocational education makes sense. Our country already knows the apprenticeship system, so this would not be a novelty. During the 10 years, somehow between 1996 and 2006, we had this type of education already regulated by law. Lawmakers, the SDS Parliamentary Group, are practically copying the dual system regime in force in the Republic of Slovenia before 2006. That year, this system was abolished by the then government under the leadership of the SDS. As a reason for the abolition of the dual system, it was stated that representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia were critical of legal solutions soon after the law was enacted, as they expected budgetary resources or other incentives, in particular tax reliefs or other forms of incentives for those carrying out practical apprentice training, and that they also pointed out that the apprentice status was not properly enforced and that evaluation studies were also carried out by foreign experts. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we therefore ask whether the proposer of the law in question today considers that, in today's current situation, solutions from 18 years ago are indeed appropriate to bring them into a completely different economic and financial situation in the country than it was in 1996. Of course, we doubt that this solution would be adequately addressed by the current educational system. Finally, it is important to ask how students will be protected in the labour law, as the new law on the working relationship of the apprenticeship institute no longer governs. Members and Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners do not reject the possibility of reintroducing a dual education system in vocational education, but we cannot consider this proposal a suitable one. In the design of such important materials, there is an absolute urgency in the participation of education professionals, employees and employers, since only coordinated solutions can be a good solution in practice. This government has already approached the preparation of this area and the consensus between the social partners will be the basis for the successful operation of apprenticeships. Above all, it is essential that the protection of the apprentice, who is both a worker and a student, be first.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First, she gets the word of her proposaler, Matei Pučnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that again, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Initially, I would like to say that this bill, which is now on your desks, is not identical to that of 2012. If you read your marriage well, you will see that there is not a word for dual education. It is true, however, that the research and theories presented are originally based on some facts and research. And there is no denying it and we do not deny it, because the facts are facts and we now have some new data, some new criteria we cannot invent. Allow me further, given that those introductory five minutes are very short and quickly passed, that it is possible to give a little more detailed and precise reasons for amending the Law on Vocational and Professional Education and also describe the solutions that we are proposing and proposing to amend this law in the parliamentary group. See, in Slovenia we have almost one hundred and thirty thousand unemployed people, more than thirty thousand young unemployed people, and the largest part of them are first-time job seekers. We in Slovenia have been talking mainly about structural unemployment for more than ten years. Because, on the one hand, we face large numbers, large numbers of unemployed people, and on the other hand, young people who do certain jobs and professions simply lack us. For this large unemployment is certainly the fault of the economic crisis, which has plagued Slovenia for several years. One part of the responsibility must also be taken over by the educational system, which in fact produces a very difficult labour force in the last 10, 15 years. It is true that enrolment in secondary and vocational schools has increased slightly in recent years. However, these numbers are still absolutely incomparable and are still too small compared to enrolment in high school. We still have more than 40% of the children enrolled in high school, including those who do not have the capacity to make high school, I will say, easy to produce. And then there's this big, big mental distress and a lot of money invested in various trainings that these young people then make high school to the end. And then it happens that they're not trained for any profession and they don't have anywhere to work and then they sign up for college. In order for some to really finish college, others, as we have already said today, I think the Secretary of State has been talking about the problem of fictitious entries. Thus, in fact, the problem is, on the other hand, probably every single one of us has ever had a chance every so long to find a master when it was necessary to find a man who came home to fix something when you needed it, I do not know when you were adapting the house or anything else, how difficult it was to find such a master and a quality worker. In fact, we are facing structural unemployment when, on the one hand, we have surpluses, especially in socio-economic subjects, of social graduates, where jobs are lacking, and on the other hand, we do not have people who could be employed in certain professions, which we are already running out of in some regions. The problem is that these deficient professions, I'm talking about founders, blacksmiths, carpenters, builders, even chefs and waiters, are not enjoying enough reputation with us. In particular, because of the collapse of many companies that went bankrupt, where workers remained unemployed. As interest in these professions has become so small, these professions have become less demanding and on the other hand not less paid. And I can't believe it when people tell me that I'm also talking to in my office, and I'm thinking how it's possible that a car dealer or car driver in Austria can have a thousand 600 euros in salary, and that's a thousand 600 euros in net salary, not gross, but when we're paying workers who work in auto-mechanical workshops, they're moving around the minimum wage. I don't know if in Austria there is a real awareness that we need a good master and a quality job that provides us with a safe vehicle and then also ensures safe driving, as big as we do in Slovenia. I really wonder why our admission to vocational schools is still considered to be something less valuable. I'm terrible, and I'm sorry to say this out loud, but I have a personal experience when kids, students of the ninth grade, when we were talking about where they were going to sign up when I heard from my parents, and, uh, you weren't going to go to vocational school anymore, and that would be a shame. This is still the way some parents think today. And so do many youths. That is why we today have so much unemployment and, above all, structural unemployment. Our task and the task of the educational system is to actually approach this problem, and that would have been the last time, I think that the first train should have been caught a long time ago, and I'm afraid that with this law being postponed, that last train will have escaped us. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we believe that we should also reintroduce a dual system or apprenticeship system in secondary vocational schools. We have already had such a dual system in Slovenia and we already knew it. That's what the predecessors talked about. And of course it was similar to the German dual system, because it is considered the best in Europe. In Germany, young people can be educated for more than 350 professions according to the dual system. The evaluation and evaluation of both practical and theoretical knowledge is almost uniform across Germany with rare exceptions. They may have apprenticeships from 3 to 5 days, depending on the agreement with the company, some other countries have one week in the company, one week in the school, there may be half a year, half a year in the school and half a year in the company. We have known such a system there from 1997 until I think that in 2005 or 2006 in Slovenia. This dual system under the German system is now being taken over by all European countries, at least by those most developed European countries. Thanks to the good results of this dual system, it has also been demonstrated that those countries that have their education system are also much easier and have come out of the economic crisis much faster. And that's a fact. Therefore, the European Union's recommendation that a dual system should be sought in all EU Member States is also said in Slovenia. In its written opinion, as well as in the oral opinion given by the Secretary-General, this is also given by the Government, while at the same time informing the Government that it does not support this law. The government shows in its opinion, and we have also heard from one of the coalition parties today that this law is uncritically identical to that of 1996, which is certainly not true. However, it is a fact that it is summed up by the German system, that it is also similar to the Finnish system, which is good and right. We cannot in Slovenia discover warm water in this area, rediscover America. Why? It is our job to look around Europe and those things that work in Europe, to try to imply and introduce into our legislation, of course with certain adjustments, because this is also dependent on the economic situation, and perhaps history, economy, entrepreneurship and so on. I'm not saying that the dual system from 10, 15 years ago was ideal. There have certainly been some shortcomings that have been demonstrated during the implementation of this education. It is, however, a fact that today we are 10 years smarter and that today Slovenia is in different economic times than at that time. So today we have the opportunity to correct what we might have missed in the marriage, which was not good. So the law is not identical to the previous one, because this proposal places greater responsibility on the part of the apprentice to the employer, who will be able to raise a good worker on his own and will also be in the interest of such a well-trained young person then also to work, without that process of introduction and initial training, which means again new and new financial burdens for both the employer and the young new employee. This bill offers more practical work than in the past, as I said before, only with the employer and not anymore in school. That is why we are committed to 60% of the practical work being carried out by apprentices, 50% by vocational education and 20% by students in four-year vocational schools. This is certainly a novelty, but we believe that all those in vocational education should be offered as much practical work as possible. While schools perform their mission well, inter-enterprise educational centres have a great role to play in vocational education, but schools and these inter-enterprise educational centres will have to recognise that they can offer a quality theoretical basis, those practical bases, that is, practical work, and certainly cannot offer, as employers can do, such as craftsmen and entrepreneurs at any time. The novelty in the law is also that an apprentice can be an adult who urgently needs new skills, perhaps a requalification, so that he can reenter the employment system. Of course, the subjects that this person once did in formal four - year education are also recognized. The news is also that the apprentice’s period spent in the employer is fully considered as working time, not just half as it was in the law 10-15 years ago. And it will certainly be a good motivation for young people to enter the system of vocational and vocational education with greater joy and motivation. Of course, in addition to motivating young people to enroll in vocational schools and dual systems, employers, i.e. craftsmen and entrepreneurs, need to be motivated to want this system of apprenticeships or apprentices in their company at all. Also from the latest documents and requirements probably sent to both the Government and Members of the National Assembly, for example, from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry – I think we all got the document together on Friday, and also in this document it is possible to see that they are again interested and that there is an interest after the dual system is reinstated in us. It is, however, impossible and unrealistic to expect companies, especially during this major crisis, when the vast majority, unfortunately, continue to fight liquidity from month to month and barely get together for the salaries of their employees, so that these broad, open-hearted and deadlines will now invite apprentices to their companies. Because the fact is that apprenticeship brings some financial burden, some financial burden. And that is why this proposal is now different from what it was 15 years ago and is probably different from what the Government is going to propose. For we want the country to be the one that, during the economic crisis – we are proposing the 2020 year – to take over part of the burden that some companies, i.e. employers, would have on apprenticeships. To take over the burden of paying social contributions and the prizes for apprentices. This can be done, but it is true that certain laws in the field of labour law need to be rectified. It will probably be necessary to visit the Labour Relations Act, where it is necessary to regulate the status of apprentice, because it is true, as you said earlier, that this status is not only related to school legislation but also to labour legislation, but also to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, of course. But unlike the fact that the state commits itself and that some funds are also devoted to apprenticeship, it will be impossible to attract such students to enter the dual system as employers who would then be happy to enter the system. The country has much more opportunities in providing funding than employers, i.e. as an economic sector, because the country can successfully draw on European funds. And it is clear exactly how much money is available to draw from Europe in the new financial perspective, where I think more than 4 billion euros are earmarked for Slovenia. It is true, however, that this is the task of the government and the ministry, not only the school ministry, but also the other ministries, to draw up such operational plans, by which these financial resources in Europe will be able to draw on. And for this dual system, it is possible to draw funds from the Smart Specialisation Strategy, which has been, unfortunately, as far as I have the data, perhaps the gentlemen from the Minister will warn me or correct me that this smart specialisation in Brussels has already been rejected twice. And then there's the problem that there's obviously money in Europe, but we can't get it to Slovenia. Here, however, is the task of both the government and the ministries to become more involved in this area. I remember when I was Minister of Education, science is not a sport, Dr Pikala at the end of last year asking how the Ministry of Education was successful in drawing on European funds, and then Minister Pikalo assured me that the ministry was very successful, that they had pumped up what they had set themselves and that it would be so in the future. I think that's what the minister said at a press conference earlier this year. And if that's true, it's good, and I absolutely support it. If apprenticeship is given priority, as we now offer amendments to the law with this proposal, I am sure that these funds can be peed. In this context, the Ministry of Education will also have to prepare, in cooperation with the Minister of Economy, such an operational programme, which will also hold water in Brussels. I think there was another observation, which I would like to comment on earlier, to show by setting up a marriage in 2016, that is to say its beginning, some unreality. I mean, that's just not true. However, it is true to say at the same time that we do not have the funds available in the budget, and then to wonder that we will give the law in 2016, but it is purely a misappropriation. We are setting this law in 2016 precisely because we have not yet talked about the 2016 budget. And we'll probably talk about it, or it's obviously another parliament, another government. But now wait for this law to be reconfirmed and rejected and wait for a systemic solution, as proposed by the government, believe me, even this time will pass and it will be again at the end of 2015 and again will not be provided for 2016 in the budget, which would be a real damage. If the state can provide all these billions that are being dumped for the rehabilitation of the banking system, then these funds should also be found for something good and something more recent, according to the European system that has been taken into our educational system. So much so far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar, prepare yourself for Mr. Franz Bogovich. Here you go, Mrs. Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues and other present, very welcome! I personally do not mind if a solution or, I will say, we take the idea from the past or if it turns out in practice to introduce something we introduced ten years ago. However, we also need to consider what has changed in these ten years, what is different. For this particular text of the law, I must already find that some solutions are incompatible with other laws and also express a lack of knowledge of both modern school practices and of the position of a worker who is not the same as in the previous apprenticeship system. Let us say that we will be specific, for the entry of health reasons which are the reason for the termination of the apprenticeship contract, then in Article 5th, it is stated that the employer shall ensure that the apprentice attends the school regularly. I'm sorry, I don't think this can be the job of one employer with a apprentice in practice to make sure he attends school regularly. I also smiled a little at the record that the employer had to take care of the right relationships between the workers and the apprentices. In fact, I also ask the applicants what they meant by this. Look, we had one system for ten years, then we changed it in 2006. And the response to that system, which obviously had not the greatest interest among employers, was also the establishment of so-called inter-enterprise education centres. We can agree that there may also be problems in practice, but the idea of these centres was to become one entrepreneurial incubators who are organisationally separated from the school itself and to cooperate with companies where students or students would gain practical experience. Representatives of the economy must also be on the expert boards of these inter-enterprise centres. I know of cases where companies, successful Slovenian companies have provided equipment to these inter-enterprise centres that students have been trained, trained or developed innovative ideas on this equipment. Many say that these inter-enterprise education centres also contribute in one way to the development of the region. Of course, it's not all that pink, but I'm a little skeptical that we have 10 years of one system, and then we'll introduce something else, because in practice it can't even produce results, and we're already looking at what we're going to change again. This suggests an unstable business environment. I don't think there's a problem with what kind of system we have, apprenticeship or dual or targeted education. What's interesting is what our colleague Potrata pointed out, and why our workers in Austria like to take on broad arms. I think there is a greater problem in the inflexibility of working relationships, in that we have failed to implement such labour market reforms as would be an appropriate support or an appropriate institution and a tool for the economy. But you know, if one craftsman, one entrepreneur, is struggling with problems, even for his workers, it will probably be even harder to accept the open hands of the apprentices, or those who need a large stake at least during the initial stage. Employers, if one study or apprenticeship is to be done now, of course need teaching places, need interest, and need knowledge. And if at that time, when we were doing better than today, we all admitted today that there was no great interest among employers, I wonder if we could afford it in these circumstances or if we would rather make a necessary labour market reform, reduce labour costs. And believe it, new employment, as well as various practices and apprenticeships, it comes from itself. When I studied this bill, I also called some employers who in the past used compulsory practices to a greater extent. Their answer is, I don't have time to deal with it, I take a few students, I see who turns out, and even if they're doing a health service, they tell me they're taking the one who can grab the broom. So that my thinking or my debate goes in the direction of whether the country can really interfere with all aspects of people's or citizens' lives and that we may have to admit that, regardless of what kind of system we have, experts, I don't know what innovative experts are going to give immediate answers from the school system to the future of the Slovenian economy – that's probably utopia. Life has been killing us for a whole period, and surely then the working relationship, experience, practice, competences of what we gain from years, and the ideal system, as it is not in electoral systems, is probably not in this case. I do not object to having a debate or to having one broader consensus also on what kind of education and what kind of system we wish for in vocational education. I would like to point out, however, that today there is also a lot of talk about European funds, that we have also renewed vocational education through European funds in 2006. Go to the website of the Centre for Vocational Education and various forms, Mehatronics, the rural economy, are what was financed by European funds. These programmes were renewed in 2006-2007. Is it time to change in 2013-2014 [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovich has the floor to prepare Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u24	Nice greetings, president, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the introduction, let me express my satisfaction that this topic is on the agenda of the National Assembly. I think we are talking about a key topic on which we should certainly find consensus in politics, together with the social partners, and find out what is right and wrong in the school system in Slovenia. I am also of this opinion that in this area we really need not be too strict in saving, but to identify the good and bad aspects of today's system. Congratulations to the applicants for the prepared material. I estimate that this is one of the better prepared materials that we have received at the table of Members at this time in the National Assembly of Opposition. I can see that Mrs Potrata is leaving, who had a problem before, and I also want to say to her that I really don't understand that we are asking ourselves in this House, whose copyrights are some material. Like we're talking about a private matter, we're talking about what kind of education we want to have. Excuse me, colleagues and colleagues, if someone in a period of time, when he was at the Ministry and he had some material prepared for a stage, waited a year, a year and a half to be adopted or adjusted by the government, but nothing happens, I don't see any precedent if he brings him to the National Assembly. You now have the coalition representatives in your hands, the government, let's improve this material to your advantage, give your contribution to this. Certainly not that there is now a sharing of evidence of who used which material. And as the proposalr put it, key data do not change. In Slovenia, I think we have a largely imported school system. I don't want to find anyone to blame for this. It is known who was the minister, who was not the minister, and, on the other hand, I do not understand whether today is the time to change the system after six, seven, eight years. It was mentioned in 2006 that some amendments were envisaged. What did Europe do in 2006? Globalization, moving work where they'll work for us for half-free. So let's send work to China, India, Vietnam, I don't know which, especially Asian countries. We'll be Europeans – what? Exchange brokers, lawyers, economists. This logic probably also built a Bologna reform, which is similar to a fiasco in education, such as the educational system we introduced in the mid-80s when we introduced targeted education in Slovenia. What is the situation in Slovenia in the field of education? We have exemplary kindergartens, we have kindergartens where kindergarten costs between €400 and €500 per month, which is between €5,000 and €6,000 is the cost of kindergartens per year. It is true that 80% of this amount is paid by about the municipality, 20% by parents. In kindergarten, we have excellent regulations on how games rooms should be arranged. Approximately €200,000 is a cost for one kindergarten department. No one here had any problem at the Ministry of Education to charge parents and municipalities. The department costs, as I said, 200,000 euros, while the child costs 5,000 to 6,000 a year in kindergarten. From here on out, we have a nine-year primary school program. Laws have also been enacted here, which have simply not yet been fulfilled by the Slovenian municipalities, even though they should have been fulfilled decades ago because it is again very richly made. And I believe he could be part of the savings in this system. Today, we have schools where it is possible to see if after a few schools it is possible to unite together, but to have joint administrators, to have common accounting and so on. We are not talking about quitting any branch school or anything like that. Surely something could be done in this organization. We have schools where teachers help children today. Drivers are protected by professors. Maybe we can save it here. We have a school system again, as I said, where investment is run by municipalities, no problem of large-scale regulation and for my concepts we can find savings in primary school. Let me tell you the experience when my colleague mentioned what was at primary school, when I had been closing elementary school decades ago and there was nothing else between teachers today. The first was, "Go to school so you don't have to work." Let's tell the kids once: "Go to school so you can work and you'll have to work hard." And let the school system win that first, because I'm afraid he hasn't won it yet today. Second, when I made my decision during high school and high school technical agricultural school, the teacher who advised me on my profession said, "I guess you won't go to agricultural school like your brother did to be a farmer your whole life." Let us also learn this and appreciate all professions, from farmer to tooler, to engineer, to university professor. And here I think we need to change a lot of things in our heads. We have a secondary school system where 40% of children go to high school today, 40% in four-year secondary school programmes and only 20% in these two and three-year school programmes. When I was a mayor in a town called Krsko, what did we do? Together with the economy, we equipped a secondary technical school. Today, this secondary technical school has a problem with increased registration of machine technicians. I hope you've reconciled, even I've been asked to be asked for help if there's gonna be any more help needed, so I'll be asked for help. Since they haven't turned to me, I believe you've settled them, and I thank you for that. But we have to encourage it. There is no problem in promoting an environment that is aware of what technical culture is. In companies, in municipalities you have one of the most equipped schools, but not because the country would provide this money, but because the local environment and the economy are aware that it must be a good school. And when the kids came to the news days, my son was in this school now, and they were excited about the school and they were there. And we have to do this. We're talking about billions somewhere, and for God's sake, we're not saying that the problem is 100,000, 200,000 euros or 2,3,5 million for these things. With the Slovenian People's Party we were guests in Baden-württemberg Parliament in Stuttgart a month ago and I asked about the school system. Colleagues and colleagues, Baden-Württemberg, in the country where a Mercedes is produced, where a Porsche is produced and everything else is produced, and where the goal of BDB in the countryside is to be the same as in the city, almost 50% of the children in Fachschule go. And what is Fachschule? That's what my colleagues are suggesting. The apprenticeship. At 18, 19, they finish their education. The last two years to three years of intensive education in the workplace. 28 hours of education is in the workplace, 12 in the classroom. And it's exactly what they say here. This leads on Baden-Württemberg, this leads on Bavaria, this leads on Austria. Where are we looking for samples? We're looking for samples and we want to bring kids, 80% to the end of high school, and then because they don't have a perspective: spread out across universities. When I was mayor, we made the first scholarship scheme in the country in the municipality of Krško. Two-thirds of the scholarship in the first year was paid by the municipality, one-third of the company to lure high school students or those who went to college into companies. And today in Krška, the largest proportion of those who are now through the social fund in the scheme involved in the economy. To do that. However, this will not happen, as the colleague said before, on her own and we will adopt some other laws. That is what we must direct and here is our future, that is the way out of the crisis. We're not talking about billions here, we're talking about tens of millions of euros. Where they can be saved in the school system, I've mentioned them to you so far. Let's move on to high school. In Krška we also, I will gladly say, have established the only technical college in the country in these last ten years, the Faculty of Energy, together with the University of Maribor, is a member of the University of Maribor. During the first year, 40 energy scientists were enrolled in an extraordinary study, the economy was aware that such a college should be held. And she spent her first year in college with an extraordinary study. Why did she have to do an emergency study? Because within the framework of the University of Maribor, there is such a division that this university receives about €2-3 000 per person, but I mentioned earlier that it costs children between €5 000 and €6,000 in kindergarten. We allow it in this country. This is what we allow students of the Faculty of Energy, the employment professions, our perspective in a wide range of areas, half the less allocated resources per head than in kindergarten. Is there something wrong or is there something wrong with it? While other members within the university have 5,000 euros because they're old and because they're new and they're afraid and they're kicking elbows between their ribs. Why? It's the enrollment. Because we have enough entries in some other colleges, and we get economists, we get lawyers, we get managers, we get job organizers, we get education, we get jobs, we get jobs, we get jobs, we get jobs, we get jobs, we get jobs, we get jobs, we get jobs, we get jobs, we get jobs, we get jobs, We have a completely broken structure, so we think our generation is capable of sending 80% after high school to college. In Baden-Württemberg there are 50% of 18, 19 years of age working and additional education at work. And we're talking about educational concepts here. There's a problem with the education concept. We're going to come up on the same subject, whether we're going to be in debt or we're going to be doing social work. We have to cut this once in this country, and for my understanding, there's a field in this part. I believe that the social partners and others must be agreed on these matters first. It's time! But, for God's sake, let's not see now if anyone has adopted some material that some ministerial team has been doing in one another, and that's a key problem today. You haven't reviewed all the laws, and within certain laws, it's not consistent with all the laws. It's a decade, and a decade of change and the world has defended itself in 10 years, let's, for God's sake, get to know this once. Ten years ago, everyone thought they were going to be shriveling around the world, and they're going to be messing with afnes, and one billion of the world's most developed are going to be 5,6 billion Asians and Africans, and I don't know who. No, it won't! The world has turned and we will have to work for ourselves. In the new financial perspective, what is Europe's goal? Increase industrialization. Who do we need? A defense attorney, a political scientist, or do we need a "fahman"? And here we have to turn once and get real and start talking about the problem, the real problem, not the political problem of seven parties that we don't know about in this country anymore. And let's move on to this point. Congratulations on the material. I'd be happy to support it, even though there's probably no majority. Maybe even this week, most of it can be won.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, and Mr Andrej Chuš is preparing himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber, Mr. President-respected. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Let me begin by saying that I am very pleased to come to this hall today. The amendment of the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education requires in-depth reflection from all of us, perhaps in the course of discussion some minimal adaptation, and in particular realisation. But I am in a somewhat poor mood because I see that most of this moment here in this Chamber is provided by the opposition party, I do not know what the reason is. Perhaps because the proposal for a new law came from the opposition or, more likely, a political crisis in that country. As regards the dual system or the apprenticeship alliance, we discussed in depth the European Union Affairs Committee at the end of last year and also gave a green light to the positions represented by the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. And maybe I'd like to say the following. The debate that we have only recently changed vocational education is, excuse me, depressed. It is important to be aware that Slovenia is also part of the global world, that changes in our lives, in the global world, are extremely dynamic, and that it is therefore necessary to adapt very quickly to these dynamic changes in the world with great frequency, but, of course, it is deliberate and thoughtful. Here is our task, colleagues and colleagues of the legislature, to guide these changes in the educational process in our country. I am often pleased to say that we have achieved a great deal in this self-sustaining history in Slovenia. We've done a lot. Surely, though, we have ignored or wronged many things. But let's let it go, there's no turning back time. Let's make changes today so our tomorrow will be better. Signals and statistics as unemployed young people are worrying enough to shrink species and make good decisions. And maybe I'm going back a little bit to the beginning of the European apprenticeship coalition or, I think, a better translation than we actually use more, is an alliance for apprenticeship. The European Commissioner for Education and Culture, Multilingualism and Youth, Mrs Vassiliou, and the Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion, Mr László Andor, in German Leipzig, at the World Skills competition last year, announced the formal launch of the European Alliance for apprenticeships. This should help to combat youth unemployment by improving the quality and offer of apprenticeships in the European Union through a broad partnership of key stakeholders in the field of employment and education. The European Union will also work towards changing attitudes towards apprenticeships, at the same time defining in particular the most successful apprenticeship programmes in the European Union and developing appropriate solutions for individual Member States. Now that I am talking about apprenticeship, I would like to say that we are all aware that the decision for a profession is actually already at the core of school, which I logically conclude is that in primary school it is necessary to present to primary schoolers concretely how the miller works, how they operate in general different professions. Moreover, it is necessary to cultivate love, love for the design of wood, for the design of metals, for the design of plastics and so on. And I am also talking to elementary school students, teachers, and they say that in terms of knowledge of professions, the visits of elementary school students in crafts workshops that they run and are owned by those people, those ladies and gentlemen who gave through the dual system that were once apprentices and so on, and today they are masters with a master's exam. There, in fact, children, primary schoolmates see how nice it is to be a mess or any other profession. Let's have a good time. Let's have a row. Let's have a debate today. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor and Mr Dragan Bosic is preparing himself. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have tabled amendments to the Vocational and Professional Education Act in the Parliamentary Procedure of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The purpose of the law itself is to link the education system as much as possible with the economy and the needs of the economy. I believe that this is how everyone here in this national assembly should think, so that they can listen and understand those who create added value and who are themselves earning money. However, I am not talking about the National Assembly now, including the wider public sector, so as not to respect anyone who serves on his own. Today, in the school system and also in the education process, there is little emphasis on knowledge and practice, especially practical thinking, much can be said mainly of theories, of various other theorists, and this has also led to a lot of talking and in practice everything looks different. And that's why Slovenia is where it is today. The 2010 Youth Survey, I will not now say that this is what the opposition is saying, that is what the SDS is saying, but the 2010 Youth Survey carried out by the Office of Youth under the auspices of the then Ministry of Education shows that the overall education system in Slovenia is able to detect the lack of professional advice and career guidance, the link between the education system and the labour market is weak and it is not surprising that Slovenian education is not effective, since it last year provides different profiles than the economy actually needs. Today we are also facing record youth unemployment, and I believe that this situation among young people is also primarily responsible for education and education. Something has to be done at home, in the family, on its own, and of course something is given to you at school. And this poor situation in the area of youth unemployment affects the fact that today we have over 33,000 unemployed young people up to the age of 29. On the other hand, according to recent surveys, we are Slovenians who are the oldest individuals in the European Union and, on the other hand, we have only 8 000 empty apartments in the state housing fund. In recent years, we still face low enrolment in vocational secondary schools, and the decline in many businesses in recent years has led to a decline in employers' interest in vocational education and the decline in the reputation of certain professions. Here, too, I would like to refer to the process of degrading vocational education, with which the then Minister for Education started, I think that Mr Gaber, when in just a few years, the admission to high school has increased significantly and the admission to vocational education has dropped significantly. In order to avoid youth unemployment while at the same time providing technological and craft services, we want to reconnect the education system and the economy. We want to upgrade the existing legislation on vocational education by allowing for a dual system with the existing system. The dual system combines apprenticeship in the company and vocational education in school and has been implemented in Slovenian schools several years ago. In our country, the dual education system had the same characteristics as German, Finnish or Austrian. In Germany, young people can be educated in more than 350 professions under the dual system, while knowledge standards are uniform for both practical and theoretical parts throughout the country. The apprenticeship may be carried out in the company from three to five days a week and the company is responsible for the students and apprentices being insured and for obtaining standard quality knowledge. Definitely for every industry. However, apprentices can complement their knowledge in addition to one other company and thus expand their knowledge. The dual system has been implemented in Slovenia since the school year 1996/1997 in vocational secondary schools lasting three years. The condition was the conclusion of a learning contract between the employer, the apprentice and his legal representatives. The practical part was mostly carried out with the employer and theoretical in the school. The apprentice was awarded a prize for his work and the apprentice’s study period was counted as an insurance period under the conditions met. The study contract had to be registered at the Chamber of Commerce or Economics. The register of these contracts was maintained by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Allow me to present in a few points the essential solutions that we are also proposing in the law. In secondary vocational education, a dual system is introduced in addition to the current school model, where possible. The essence of the dual system is that the employer assumes responsibility for the apprentice and thus establishes a culture of good staff training. Close contact and cooperation between the economy and the educational system. The competent chambers shall, through the invitation to tender, select potential employers who shall then cooperate with the relevant vocational school in their environment. The apprentices have at least 60% of practical education, pupils at least 50% at vocational school and students at least 20% at the 4-year vocational school, which is of course a novelty. However, we believe that as much practical knowledge should be offered to all students during the course of education. The apprentice’s time for practical education is considered during working hours, which will certainly be a good stimulus in deciding on vocational education. We are aware that this will also require amendments to the Labour Relations Act, which will ensure payment of contributions. At first, of course, in this financial perspective from the European Union's resources, which is why in these years it devotes a very large sum of money and I doubt that we should make any contribution from our budget at all. Of course, if we were to make a serious effort to draw on European funds, not like today. After 2020, these funds would be provided in the worst case scenario, I repeat, at worst from the Treasury. An apprentice may also be an adult who is unemployed, as additional knowledge, skills or retraining is essential. However, the general subjects previously carried out by adults in the medium formal programme are recognised. The law will also allow modularity by programme and institution. Students and apprentices can be enrolled in the mother school and some modules will be able to attend other schools. This will significantly expand the offer of educational content for pupils and apprentices, while streamlining the system itself. Since the economy is still in a recession, it is difficult to pay the prizes for apprentices and mentors, a major part of this is transferred to a country which, through subsidies, encourages employers to take an interest in the implementation of education, while effectively drawing on European funds. We expect companies to prepare apprenticeship programmes and successfully start restructuring education due to incentives, which should also be followed by tax incentives. We are aware that the law has certain financial implications and would therefore enter into force in 2016, with the need to draw on and use European funds. By 2020, the country would have paid the prize to the apprentices in full by using European funds through smart specialisation, and then it would have been a matter of agreement. We also cannot know what will happen in the Brussels cash register at that time, what the money will be for, but I am sure that youth unemployment will continue to be on the agenda, as it is a structural problem that Slovenia or the European Union will face for the next 40 years. The current system and the future dual system will coexist. The dual system will be implemented primarily where successful companies and companies are. This also means that the reputation of the profession will rise. The apprentices will be allowed to consider the time of practical education at work, which will be an additional incentive for young people to decide on vocational education and to make regular progress from year to year. Comparative analyses of the vocational and vocational education system in 25 European countries indicate that there is a trend everywhere to strengthen the integration of vocational and vocational education with the labour market, with a trend towards improving the links between different educational pathways. There was also a speech at the meeting of the State Council today that this is, of course, an additional financial cost, but when we young people think about how much money in the past has been spent on a lot of crap, crap, robbery, we feel neglected. Therefore, it would also make sense to think about a new intergenerational agreement, how much funding for which generation, because the fact is that the young generation is the greatest crisis that unfortunately we are still in, and we can probably all agree that with such a policy, which is very unfriendly to young people, we are in debt at the rate of EUR 1 million per hour abroad. He used to be a magician. Grims said that today, young people no longer think about where they will work, what they will be educated for, but, above all, what country they will go to. Therefore, politics has stolen the future from young people, let us all show some willingness to make the necessary reforms, change despite the current developments in Slovenian politics, and let us adopt the amendments at first reading. If you are constructive in the coalition, I would expect that in the course of the legislative process we will improve the proposal so that we will not be satisfied here, but especially those who need an effective education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you. He has a word, Mr Dragan Bosic. But get ready, Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Here you go, Mr. Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I would contribute another piece or my thinking is related to the issue that we are dealing with today. The position of our group has been expressed by a colleague, but I would return to the original sin that generates problems in professional and professional education. Something about this has already been said. Let's get to work. If work is a value, then there's no problem. If the work is devalued, there are problems. It was said that once someone said, "If you do, learn that you don't have to work." I'd say it's a shame this one wasn't being punished. Someone should be responsible for what they say. If I say so now, you won't have to work, which means you're unemployed. Then I can say, learn to be unemployed would be hard to agree with. [[..]] The main message, as I see it, is: learn that you can work and that you will be able to do quality work. And now vocational and professional education. In this Parliament, the Education Committee was the guest principal of a primary school, who talked about where better students go and where worse students go. And it went unpunished. It's as sinful as what I said before. And now imagine one child who has to be in a worse category, because he can't get anywhere on the basis of points, and then he has to live with this worse coming. It's a disaster. Every child must be successful in at least one matter that he does in life. We're also talking about this search for talented people. You just have to be somewhere, or you draw well, or you're good at sports, math, whatever. It is difficult to live without success and some are forced to accept it because they are qualified as such. When it comes to finding the talented, let us not forget one fact that the talented can only be found by those who know what they are looking for. So the untalented won't find the talented. If I go back to the problem we're dealing with today. If work were to give a certain meaning, I speak generally, if it were really evaluated, if it were to be said that any value is any work, then I think the problems we face today would not be met. If you are trained for a profession that requires certain skills from you, not just knowledge, then you need to train those skills. When I spoke in coordination with government representatives, I came to understand the solution and also accepted it as it is. But the key problem, as I see it, is to put work as a value, to return work as a value. If someone from the high school, where I was teaching, subscribes to a cooking school, and this is a student who has all the grades that are excellent, it shouldn't happen that someone asks him, "What's wrong with you, you're normal because you have top grades?" But the thing is, he likes to cook. There's nothing wrong with that. He likes to cook. He even told me that French would be very useful to me, but you have to perform, and French and cooking it goes together. And if we're going to develop this, because here in this law it's quite a few things, including this option of solving the educational problem, let's say school autonomy, if I mention it, it's very nice, it's also developing some personally responsible person, and that's what we need. We need people who are successful in the area that they recognize or who are potentially known by someone with all their responsibility, to enable them to come to some conclusion, and then all that was invested in them will also be returned to society. Clearly, if I'm talking about society, I'm not talking globally, I'm speaking locally, I'm talking about the Slovenian society that invested in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the word, and the mag is being prepared. Majda Potter. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague, and a warm welcome to all of you on my behalf! Surely the education system in Slovenia is one of the systems that needs reform. Unfortunately, we have been successful or partially successful, as someone takes, at least temporarily successful, in reforming the pension system, we know that we do not do anything, even if we have a minister or a minister in the field of health, we do not have a health reform where in all areas of the creaking, from financial to organisational and any other. Part of it is trying to regulate labour reform, and this is certainly an area that we are addressing today that needs thorough reforms. And the only reason, I think, could be in the process of rejecting this proposal is that it is possible, but I cannot assess it, because I have never been directly involved in any of the mandates of the Education Committee, so I admit that I have not done much with these things. However, I am very cooperative with the economy, and with managers who explain the problems in the economy, reform is therefore necessary. And perhaps, as I started earlier, perhaps the only reason for rejection is that so quickly with some articles it is not possible to cover all of this and that a truly thorough reform is needed. I believe that's the only reason he might even be standing. I do not know any other reason, or all the reasons, for the reform to be undertaken. Nor is it what the Secretary of State said, unfortunately, that this bill does not have a real basis in the state budget. Yes, that is true, but if we persist in this system that we have for a long time, then these inflows into the state budget will become smaller and we will be an increasingly poor country. I'm sure it's progressing that we don't have to deal too much with the German, Austrian, Swiss system. Beautiful systems, of course, need to be copied, let's do something about it if we look back. I think that the system of targeted education was the biggest problem and the biggest failure in our educational system, because by then we had this dual system in the former Yugoslavia very well introduced, as it was eventually from the former Austro-Hungarian Republic. Of course, in view of these systems, which live in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, excellently, especially economically and in all other areas, and in this way, we could, of course, introduce a thorough reform. I remember in the past a variety of discussions where there were mainly some liberal orientations, so every young person should decide on education where he wants to go. This is to some extent fine, but if it does not have a real basis, then forward for the life of the state, for the life of the economy, then surely this is not the right direction. Young people should be offered education that will ultimately result in employment in areas of added value. I think we're asking too little about the economy. When I go to the companies, I talk to managers who don't actually get a shot. And those who get it are many times uneducated and educated in the workplace in the company. Those personnel leave today, which are educated in the workplace, abroad, not immediately from school, but certainly not from social schools or from high schools. And these people certainly don't go abroad. On the other hand, if we look at the educational structure of Members and Members, especially younger ones, we see that most come from these schools, social schools and so on, very little from technical guidance. In this respect, the economy is certainly extremely interested, both large and small, in both chambers or in all chambers. I was given one study by the Society for the Development of Technical Education. Years ago, this company made an assessment of the state of technical education in Slovenia. Just for a little while. They are critical of the subject in primary schools, where in the nine classes of primary schools this weakness or we no longer have this subject in the field of technical education. This significantly reduces the possibility of developing professional motivations for the technical, technological field in secondary education. Teachers of technology and technology also increasingly see that students have difficulty in transfer and use of knowledge and in motor skills. In this way, as a result, virtually most young people are enrolled in high school. And there's something else about the study itself at college or university levels. In this case, one study is done, where golden graduates are enrolled. There are written by the Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Philosophy, Faculty of Law and still a few colleges, there is virtually no enrollment in the field of engineering, electrical engineering, computer science, chemistry, construction and so on. And the result in our economy and staff in our economy is what it is. I will conclude that I will give my colleagues a minute to support this proposal at first reading, of course, and I believe that it still needs to be thoroughly finalized for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's Maja Potrat's Masters' Day.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Well, first of all, I would like to remind you that the Vocational and Professional Education Act 2006 received general support and that then Minister Beast said, "... I could say that today is an unusual day in terms of constructive debate. Apparently, the area of vocational and professional education has come out of the zone of ideological and cultural conflicts, and I like that very much." Why did I quote that? In order to stop being convinced of who is a supporter of vocational and professional education and who is not aware of the need for this type of education. At the time, I had the most problems with Article 6, which dealt with the issue of Slovenian in marriage. This article, in my opinion, was not correctly recorded in the proposal when it allowed foreign experts to carry out their education in a foreign language and only then, in the amended form, was written in this form, limiting the proportion of the use of foreign language and allowing the student to be tested in Slovenian. So much for that. We are the needs of professional and vocational education, and we are all aware. However, it must be said again that in 2006 the dual system was removed from the law, the apprenticeship was withdrawn. This does not mean that there was no link between education and work. It is necessary to look at the sixth chapter of the current law, where Articles 31 to 45 state as many as 15 articles of all 95, as the whole law is intended to link education and work directly. And that's where the MICs were introduced. The meaning of MICs is, in modern, rapid technological progress, essential to me, because you are individuals in MIC education, whether it is young or education of those who come from work, ensures that you acquire competence to work on the most demanding and expensive machines. Therefore, the willingness of employers to co-finance forms of education is always very important in this education, because I think it is the interest of all employers to give an expensive modern machine into the hands of someone who can handle it well. But this is one part of the problem where I think we still have a great responsibility, that this exchange between the private and public will also move towards co-financing of the private sector where it concerns the express interests of the private sector. Of course, we are talking mainly about systemic solutions, which are based on public funding. Now, that's what I think we should say is that it's the wrong view if we think someone will be qualified to work even in their professional career. The fact is that these times have passed, that an individual will carry out several professions in his or her life and that this training for work will be of great importance. I would now like to do what I have to explain about the drafting of the law. Why was I talking about this? Because I repeat, apprenticeship was removed from the law in 2006. And even in 2013 when the team of the Ministry of Education, which was led by Minister Turk, arrived in February, there was no law proposed for this work. I have this bill here with me. At that time, 35 articles were proposed, if I still consider the transitional and final provisions, 42 had been adopted by the law, and the law of apprenticeship or dual system did not provide for them. From February 2013 to April 2014, SDS discovered a dual system. This would not bother me if most of the introductory paragraphs were not copied from this proposal of a law that does not contain a dual system. I went to examine these paragraphs. You know, it's very interesting what's been released. The texts are omitted, for example the part on social partnership is omitted, on practical training in employers, on students with special needs and a very important chapter – conclusion. What does this conclusion say? Mrs. Pučnik, please listen, because I am also talking to you. It said: "We appreciate that more systematic changes in vocational and professional education are not necessary. It is, however, necessary to amend or supplement certain provisions." And there are six things that need to be complemented. The introduction of a dual system, as in the proposed proposal of the SDS law, is a broader change. In fact, this amendment covers 29 articles and, together with the transitional and final provisions, has 32 articles, which is more than one third or close to one third of the applicable law. It is deleted what Minister Turk's Ministry has found that more thorough systemic changes in vocational and professional education do not need our system. And what's interesting is that of the purely prescribed things, the entire paragraphs of the prescribed, the 6 pages of the copied material, the graphs and the like, it's interesting what's been left out. This material in the evaluation of software solutions, this paragraph is the second paragraph in the Turkish proposal, but the SDS proposal on the 4th page stated: "But the introduction of dual form in Slovenia has proved to be inappropriate and has therefore been abandoned." The proposal for the time of Minister Turk therefore found that the dual system did not provide the right solutions and was therefore abandoned. Well, now it is interesting, as the last sermon or conclusion of this paragraph on page 4 says, "the introduction of dual form failed, in particular because the economy did not recognize the need to raise quality, professional staff when planning a vision of enterprise development." So the economy is guilty that the dual system has failed. It is therefore a surprise to me that some say how qualitative this SDS proposal is when it reduces social dialogue when there is a lack of consensus when there is no agreement between employers, those who should be an important participant in the apprenticeship or dual system. It's not like that. There is quite a bit in this proposal, although the proposal introduces a whole chapter called Wyenci, the second chapter of Wyenci. And what's interesting is that when you're in addition to that incorporated chapter that starts with 5a. The article and the letters continue, interestingly, that then in the middle of the text, in the middle of the law, the apprentices are dwindling and are students themselves. This quality proposal, as it has been announced, does not have subtitles for all articles. The explanations are very high-quality, very high-quality. Let's say with a new 5a. the article introduces a new term "acquired" and defines the mutual legal relationship. With a new 5b. the article lays down the form of a mutual legal relationship,a customary teaching contract governing mutual rights and obligations. That's it. That's an explanation. Very high-quality. And because Mr. Visjak has already volunteered to correct, say, 8b. students, foreigners, suddenly foreigners are just students and not apprentices. These are very interesting things, how through this law is shown the urgency with which the proposal was prepared and is in fact a reflection of some nonconsistency that we do not agree with in the Group of Social Democrats. When you talk about how to support and how to be constructive Yes, it is possible to be constructive on good proposals, on good marriage proposals. [[…]] We also do not support any other parliamentary law because it is inconsistent because it does not bring systemic solutions and because we believe that it is not the right answer to regulate an area that should be regulated but is not properly regulated. Speaking of which, I could now quote you on how you handled these things. I read here, "comparative analyses of vocational and vocational education systems in 25 European countries suggest this..." Yeah, where, who did this comparative analysis? Interestingly, it is in the notes, although the note is ascribed, it writes, "... more about solutions in other countries, we have analysed Finland, France, Germany and Austria in more detail......"– Who are we, SDS? It will not hold because there are only three countries in the comparative material: Germany, Austria, and Finland. You don't even have France written down to which you refer in writing. I could continue to prove to you here how this material is taken over, and this was done by a group of Members who are said to be very, very sensitive for counterfeiting. I wouldn't mind if somewhere in this simple accompanying text it was written that this was summed up after the prepared material that was prepared at the time and at the time. But once again, this is the Ministry's material, not the delegation's. What else should be said. This provides 70 million funds to establish this dual system. This would be the estimated cost for one year. Gradually, they would grow from twenty to fifty to seventy million. All costs shall be borne by the State. When you have spoken or ignored the fact that some other incentives for the employment of young people have been introduced in the private sector, such as incentives for first employment, incentives are for those who employ unemployed persons from the employment agency, the issue of traineeships and all kinds of incentives that exist. Now I don't know if then those stimulations will also run parallel or how, because European funds are still limited, and we will have to decide what we will give priority to. Only from state resources or from public funds is something that is, in fact, primarily the interest of owners, employers, difficult to calculate. As it is said, when we refer to the Ministry's response to the fact that European funds are well-spent, they are for the purposes for which they were called. If you have read the countries in question carefully, I would like to say that those who refer to Germany and have given them in the case of Germany should be told that training for a profession in Germany is so highly developed that it would be good if someone went to see what the apprentices are learning under what circumstances. This is the acquisition of competences, the ability to work on the most demanding machines, which is that those who are educated there do not have problems with the poor self-image that colleague Bosic spoke about. Not to mention that they are paid very well in their place of employment. However, we need to ask ourselves whether we will really find 10,000 jobs now, as is the case here in the proposal, for apprentices. Ten thousand possibilities for immediate employment? Go have a little chat with micro-entrepreneurs, with craftsmen, how many new jobs are ready to be developed. Yeah, if they get, and they develop them for that year of stimulation, then the job shuts down. Look at what's going on. It is very important for me to create quality jobs, which will also provide minimum security. Not that we will also educate apprentices for apprenticeships who will later have no work to do. This is an important question that does not show a wave with his hand. Even those who will be educators have changed a lot since 2006, when we passed the applicable law on vocational and vocational education. Among other things, we abolished our compulsory membership in the Chambers. It will be necessary to regulate, regulate this issue also, who will be the one who will be licensed for education. There are many things that need to be resolved in relation to the dual system at systemic level. But I have not touched those who are concerned with the Labour Relations Act and who will have to be protected by a young person to say so. These are not things that could be done like this with a flat-rate judgment, you refer to systemic solutions, and I don't know how long these systemic solutions won't take. And you're cooperative. I'm sorry, these are the essentials. These systemic solutions must be built-in, young people must be insured in particular because we know to what extent young people are now exploited by cheap labour in the context of low-cost jobs. This is a serious question, things must be properly written down, and how long will social dialogue last to amend labour law, and I can't tell you. If you look at the old apprentice system, dual, the apprentice, who had been in the workplace for more than four hours, also had the right to rest. Now you know how employers look at lunch break. In addition, it is important to be aware of how old young people are when they enter the apprenticeship relationship. They're perfectly capable at 15 years of age, but they can still be 15, 16 years old, and it's about these things that they're guaranteed to be insured, they need to be referred to and thought about. The issues that we are raising are very large and I cannot judge the issue by the coalition: opposition, because this has now been the case in the opinions of the parliamentary groups. The opposition believes that this is a wonderful law, excellently prepared, and in the coalition we believe that they were lacking in the law of a systemic solution. And don't mind – who has more opportunity to make systematicly appropriate proposals for laws, including inter-resort coordination and a larger apparatus? The fact that they are more qualified in the ministries also indicates that you copied the law from that version that was created at the Ministry. So I cannot support this bill. However, so that a new proposal will not arise from here until eternity, it has ensured that we have already come to the conclusion of the proposal prepared by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much, mag. Majda Potter. Mr Jože Jerovšek is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! We have before us an extremely important law on changes and additions to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education. So far, I've understood that this partition, which the speaker has just talked about, is that this division of the coalition, is supposed to be a non-existent coalition, as the coalition representatives have been saying in recent days, the opposition that there is no divide along this border. Many are also serious and sober and realize that there is something to be done here, including in the existing coalition. And if this is the main question that there is an argument in the explanations of this law, which was drawn up in 2006, then it does not seem strange to me that the current collapse of the coalition or the largest party. Then it's a logical matter, if that's all that matters. See, everyone agrees, most of those who realize that something in this country needs to be lived out, that value added needs to be lived out, that support for the economy is not just a phrase, but that without it we will not survive, all of them are aware that there is also a need to make changes in the field of education of these professions. Here we see some MPs, a messenger, and also from the ministry, wanting to sit, as they say, on these rotten eggs, on the lumps, on the javelins, as we say in Styria, when the hen sits on those eggs that have not hatched. And such a hen usually, if we go into the metaphors of life, it spreads on the nest, but it's trying, it's sitting there, but because it can't get out of the chicken, it's sitting there until the brittle end. And that's what happened to your current government. You've been sitting on troublemakers for a long time, and you're practically out of active, fresh eggs in the nest so something can come out of it. And that's what you're always defending, ladies and gentlemen. I have to say, when I listened to the previous debate and the Secretary of State earlier, that your motto seemed to have become that Menart song. It's all being played, it's all going to hell. What gives me life is like nothing. Absolute negativity has become the idea and password of this government. It's especially at the school department. If we go back a little bit. The original sin was committed in the 1980s, when this dual system and apprenticeship were abolished, which was as developed with us as in neighbouring Austria, because it came from the same roots and produced the same good results. However, just before that, Kardelj had invented that targeted education should be introduced, then Mr Gaber was a long-standing performer who then found that the opposition to the previous unilateral system was being recruited from the peak of high school, and that classical high school had to be overrun. Now we're in a different extreme. And then there was this devastating targeted education. And Mrs Potrata has been the apologist of this targeted education for years, the ideological carrier of many of these mistakes that have led us to the current situation. And the main tendency is that all these mistakes will be maintained, that the political, ideological objectives of this targeted education and all these mistakes will be carried on from day to day. But we find and identify those who are in the economy, crafts, I was called today by three entrepreneurs who have been in the trade hall for many years, so that we can finally do something about it. And now the main reasons are. I don't mind if Mrs Potrata defends all of this from the position of targeted education from the 1980s. Let him defend, but let others be aware that this has been carried away, free to do us great harm and that most of them cannot agree to these things, which life has never confirmed and were simply ideological mechanisms to control Slovenian society. And that's what made you very happy. When the Secretary of State says that the integrity of the problem will be resolved systematically again – yes, but if I tell you that you are now sitting on these rotten eggs. Don't let it all go. I hear this every day in every marriage, how you'll solve something comprehensive and systemic. That's how you resist. Complete this matter if it's time. But we have nothing to wait for, even if the next government is to be adopted today, or if the elections are to go forward, do not block, like the technology of the current government. All that's good from the opposition is to block. Don't do that anymore. When Mr Bogovic spoke here about German experiences, how many people are enrolled in Fachschule. We're also in vocational education. But, say, university programs are also very "fahschule", many. Only that "fahidiots" come out, regrettably sending the mind of all Slovenian society and directing it. As a result, some systems have produced a huge amount of "fahidiotes" that do not have a horizon and shape the fate of Slovenian society. I don't know, they've been directing education to us for a long time from the Faculty of Social Sciences. Most do not know what this society needs or its economy for survival. Most people don't know that. And now we're in the same situation. Clearly, the main maximal control of society is the control of people. Timely send certain structures of people onto the road to stop what is positive. It's a technology that comes true every day. With this law today, it must be adopted at first reading with all that is acceptable to us. I know we can't just make copies today after 30 years of madness in the field of education. We cannot copy the Austrian pattern, we must adapt it, but still go to our economy having sound staff, so that it can work to make this dual system, this apprenticeship, which, in fact, has held the previous Yugoslav system up for years, to function normally on the ground. Otherwise I'd have failed sooner. Now you're fighting so hard. I hope at least the messages from the Hill are enough that some will come to their senses and support what is necessary for this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mag. Maja Potrat, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you. Well, to be an apologist, it's impossible, and I wasn't an apologist, because my CV shows that I didn't make any mention of a valuable leadership function in the school system. There's only so much about the urgency of this marriage. The motioner said about urgency, this is SDS, everything. The law is to enter into force on 1 September 2016. Strong rush, by the snail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill is next, followed by Franz Pukšič and Janja Attack.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Mrs Potrata, even if the Government had prepared this law, which you are criticising today, and if it were perfect for you, it would not have been possible to do so sooner, because it is not in the budget. And for this reason, we also wrote in our parliamentary group the possibility of putting into effect in 2016. Of course, it is true that this law is needed yesterday or that it is not only in the shortest possible time. We all find, somehow, here also in the debates, or at least most of them, especially our economists, that it is essentially from targeted education, which was then one of the first major mistakes of change, any new change to worse. I'm sorry about that. Despite some well - intentioned attempts to change our school system in order to get young, educated people from our school, especially those who can start working as independently as possible or as independently as possible. This is particularly true of the economy. Our parliamentary group has, in fact, been in Slovenia for the past seven years, eight years, visiting mainly economic enterprises, and it is not nearly an economist who would not be critical of our school system. Most of them say that when they get a diplomat, whether from high school or college or high school, they are virtually unable to do anything or not at some point in time. And it gets a lot of work done when they think he's just ready to learn some new stuff, talk about some graduate, they're actually just starting to teach him in the company itself. Sorry, look, that's how it is. Since I am part of that generation when the apprenticeship system was already in place with us, I did not put this phase through because I started high school, but I was in practice together and also started a working relationship with students or apprentices who graduated from vocational school and were also in the apprenticeship process, unfortunately it turned out that way was successful. The young man who was in school, and in particular in companies in fact educated, khalil, and especially in practice, was significantly more successful. Above all, entrepreneurs or businesses themselves have seen which perspective they are interested in and, of course, have taken it with pleasure. Now it's basically a hand-to-heart, almost anyone looking for a job, for a stranger's employer. They don't know, they don't know, they don't know what kind of character he is, how much work he has, not least how much he's willing to learn new things and so on. That is why there is such a fear of employers that they employ young people. Especially the ones they don't know. And if we say now that our school system is not what everyone would expect – who is responsible? In the first place, this is certainly the country, the previous governments, the attempts of individual ministers who have been, I am firmly convinced, for certain changes also from certain personal interests or interest groups where they have been revamping both the system and the programmes, because they have seen some opportunity for additional earnings and have gone into change, regardless of the fact that these consequences will be bad. In this respect, the concept of education has also been flawed. The funding system is, in my opinion, one of the important reasons that we have, although some praise how our graduates are, whether in secondary schools or beyond, to be internationally comparable and to achieve high knowledge. It's not like that. Let's ask the professors in college what graduates are like when they come to college, compared to twenty years ago, or maybe ten, fifteen years ago. Often or most of the time, they say that their knowledge is significantly worse. Unfortunately, this is the case and instead of starting with some new level or with the level required by the university, they repeat the substance, or those key things from high school. And why is that? Since the funding system is certainly inconceivable, because of the fact that high school, I was also often criticized by some teachers as an MP and warned that some even, not exactly being bullied, were warned, urged by the principals to let a lot of people go forward, which the material does not master – I am talking about students because they are paid after the principals of the school and are just afraid to reduce their income. In this way, a lot of people who should repeat a class or maybe even grow up with a program will let it through. Today, there has also been a speech that such a law should have an agreement with the social partners or an agreement reached. In principle, we can all agree. However – do we expect our employers, at least those of their representative institutions, to agree? I'm afraid not, because, last but not least, this could mean some expense to businesses. But good companies that know what cadre means will agree with such a concept, for sure. And they do not have a problem with having apprentices in practice to get to know them in their younger years, and especially to give them the necessary knowledge that they will use if they continue their careers. But those companies that are just criticising that our school system is a mess, and they themselves would not be willing to do anything about it, expect that in school meals we will somehow train young people, in nicknames, experts who will be able to use it directly in their processes. Here too, this apprenticeship system will have to be adopted with some possible stronger dialogue with employers. I'm sure, and I remember myself, the apprentice who came to the company on the first day, some even didn't see the schools at the time, because it was so that he could have been in practice first, and then in school, it's true that he's usually been missing every first day. But it wasn't bad. However, even if he did not have any education at school, he could learn processes very soon through training with his mentors, and last but not least discipline, climate in companies. And that's what's very important. When one formerly wondered what this meant for a young person, a dual system could also be some progress in improving or strengthening relationships or learning relationships. This is one of the important things to see here is how the company is actually breathing, what the relationships between people, between superiors, subordinates, and such a young person is also completely different in school. That's why I'm sure this system is the only perspective. This will make Slovenia more competitive in the future if we adopt such a law as soon as possible. Even if the government has a similar concept, if it succeeds, if things do not change here because of the political situation it is, put it into the procedure as soon as possible and start putting it into practice. Yesterday would have been too late. And a comment. I think it's just that a colleague who's just arrived has said one correct fact that our young people abroad like to accept that they like to be hired. Of course they are. I agree. But here it must be stressed that, above all, young people, those who are good, who are successful, who are innovative, who are eager to challenge, are going abroad. That's how they go. And a lot of people go abroad for such a job that they don't do in Slovenia. He can have a college education, I don't know what kind of education he's going to take, and he's going to be there for a job that suits him according to his abilities, his abilities, and, above all, that he's going to have a job. And that's the difference between someone who has a degree in such or other fields, if he doesn't have a job, he doesn't take the job. But it is something that the Slovenians have been known and we are still innovative and that we are, after all, resourceful, capable, good, and unfortunately we do not know how to make use of it. Aliens are more skilled here. Regardless of the fact that this bill is at least on the side of the current one, I hope that the coalition will not support it, this debate is very useful and should be continued through government law if it is actually put in place or prepared, and that this matter is more comprehensively prepared, as some in the debates here mention the concerns that this law is not sufficiently comprehensive, systemic. Let's keep this up. This is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much and very much! You know, there are some things that are fundamental. Surely one of the basic issues is the school system, then the functioning of the state apparatus, the conditions for management. And unfortunately, we haven't had it for a while. If you remember, by 1981, we had such a dual system until targeted education and it was excellent. Some of us here today have also given it through, even personally, and still today I am proud of what I learned from the master as an apprentice, later as an assistant and with ease came from an imperfect secondary school, that is, from a three-year program as an apprentice also in college., of course with some effort, acceptable exams and then I did not go to college until 30. Years, like today, a lot of high school seniors or something. But it's not that important. It's important that we have a normal relationship somewhere. Look at how many sociologists, naturalists today walk significantly less in different couples, Mercators, Magni in Austria and so on, with a second degree or even a master's degree, a doctorate. After warehouses, shops, folds, carry from shelves up and so forth. Things, as they were set up, are catastrophic. And one more thing. It will have to be done very quickly, although the current collapse of the coalition is talking about more opportunities for the Ministry to prepare this. Yeah, it's normal, but you didn't do it. You didn't take advantage of this opportunity. It will be necessary to renovate the school system, to renovate bureaucracy in order to obtain a building permit in 14 days, just as it is in neighbouring Austria, so that the conditions for the economy, agriculture, small business and the necessary money will be needed, and there is no doubt about it, for these tycoons who have taken it out, it will be imperative to confiscate this property. And then, of course, we'll get our country back to bankruptcy. But how long will SD and her [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. The next is Janja Attack, followed by Franz Breznik, Jožef Kavtičnik and Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! Representatives of the Ministry, welcome! Today I will not owe any debt to vocational education and so on, because we have already spoken a lot about this on the committee, and we are all aware that we have a problem of youth mobility or the movement of young people into the labour market in Slovenia. The priority is to provide young people with a smooth transition from school to work. This is also a policy task. And it saddens me to hear here, above all, discussions that may remind us a little of the previous system and politics and so on. The policy objective is to respond more to labour market needs, better adapt to business needs and offer more guarantees on quality and mobility and opportunities for young people. European companies currently provide training jobs for approximately 9.4 million students and students. The apprenticeship is carried out by approximately 40.5% of all students from 27 Member States. If we look at statistics or some European studies that have been done, more than 30% of the unemployed after 25 years of unemployment have been unemployed for more than 12 months. The overall employment rate of young people has fallen by almost 5% in the last four years, which is 3-fold higher than in adults. The economic costs of not involving young people in the labour market are estimated at more than €150 billion per year or 1.2% of the European Union's gross domestic product. So when the youth unemployment rate is among the highest in Europe by 25 years, reform, we can talk about reform of the school system. Otherwise, it is true that the Slovenian school is at the world summit and there are achievements of some schools even if we look at Europe's most successful countries, above average. So also above the Finnish average, where the school system is most developed. However, we must also accept the fact that Croatia has already overtaken Slovenia. Slovenia is also in the field of vocational education on the European Union's tail. If we look a little bit wider here, maybe we wouldn't have so many problems and problems with formal and informal education and recognition of informal education. I mean, I have, but it doesn't hold anymore. As well as no longer looking with respect at those professions where there is no need for so much education. Perhaps this thought should be changed. With this law, we would somehow break the membrane to remove obstacles to youth mobility. If we are already saying that Slovenia is a young country and what we have done in these 20, 25 years, of course, criticism flies to all of us as well as to businesses. When we hear criticism from the decaying coalition that this law does not regulate education systematically, it is also necessary to look for guilt in companies that have so far failed to invest in development and new jobs, but have somehow looked at the mystical algorithms of financial markets, at risky funds, at financial products and so on. And they have not invested in development and new jobs at all in order to invest in financial markets as well as in people. The chronic problem with Slovenian cultural policy is that we do have an undeveloped system of cultural evaluation. Also, talent and creativity declined in young people. Thus, creativity and ingenuity in young people have also decreased. If the young person is unemployed, he is, as a result, sentenced to social exclusion and then we are talking about a generational conflict. Because we don't have access to young people anymore, and we don't have a chance of them coming along. Such the fate of our young people in our country is truly sad. Let's say we look at one case. I enrolled in a general comparative language where the number of places of registration is about 50 per year. In the first term, they're written, say 7, 8, and in the second, they fill all the cities, and then when we look at the real number, when we enter the 2nd year, then we see that there are 5, 6 pieces. And one of the best advices I received from one of the most respected professors in our university, our department, which also taught at Harvard, has always reminded me of the importance of civil values, virtues and so on, that we are not aware of them here in Slovenian culture, that we should gain experience mainly in the market and that we should always look for opportunities where we could be perfected. I'm kind of a typical example of that young man, a high school kid, who I think we know something, but we're very little worth it. And maybe I'd like to end with another current Slovenian joke that I heard a week ago. At the Ljubljana market, two high school boys meet, and the first one says to the other, "Cheers, where are you? I haven't seen you in a hundred years. I heard you finished your architecture." And another said, "I did, I did, on average, 9.8 and I did a master's degree and now I'm preparing a doctorate." And the first said, "Congratulations, I always knew you were a genius. And how much do you have now?" I got a comment on that: "Ha, ha!" Sentimental humor. And I really hope that things will move around in this area, because young people are really a little desperate, and that's why we're running, and that's why we're dealing with the brain drain. Thank you very much. I'll support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Attack. Mr. Franz Breznik is on his way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u46	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. I am pleased that today, as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I can comment on the preparation of a bill, the amendment of the Law on Vocational and Professional Education, because I believe it solves a large part of the problems we have had in Slovenia over the past 20 years. I think that in one of my first discussions here in this National Assembly several times, not only at the first, but in several of my discussions, I have explained some of my experiences in two systems, the German system, the Austrian system, but also on the basis of education, the so-called dual school education. And I've been explaining a whole series of stories, positive stories of the highest brands that come from this dual school system. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This country has not responded to the needs of the economy for more than 20 years. This country is very rigid mainly in school policy and I believe that school policy is also one of the main culprits of the situation. There are no products of the school system, but I am mainly talking about the products of the secondary, high school system and, above all, higher education and higher education, especially university education; these systems live another life than the economy. And here's the problem! See, in the public sector, these personnel, which the market has not consumed, have been employed in public administration. Here's this vicious circle of all this. Look, respected colleagues and colleagues, when you're in kindergarten, you're ordinary people in kindergarten. What kind of professions do children think about? They explain that a mill, explaining that it will repair cars to treat people, explains that one day a train, many children, will work on a bulldozer to produce different products, will repair different objects. You ever hear of a kid who'd say he'd be a graduate defense attorney, a senior executive organizer. Have you ever heard any kids explain that? Never. What happens to the population of these children through the school system, that they then somehow decide after high school that they will be philosophers, that they will be sociologists, that there will be a whole range of professions that the current market cannot tolerate. Look, it's not a criticism. It's not a criticism of the entire university space, but it's a relationship in society, it's a relationship that's totally broken. Germany, 180 years of top engineering, had an alarm in the school system before the Government of Schröder when less than 30% were enrolled in technical colleges, less than 30% of the population. The alarm. The system that gave diesel engine, Wankel's engine, Otto's engine, which started making zeppelins, can basically say that the Germans were also the population that went first into space. We must not forget their rocket engineering, in which we also have the Slovenians part of the contribution, everything he did, say Wernher von Braun and everything else. So it's an amazing nation that today enjoys the fruits of this engineering work and the fruits of their dual education, the population in the secondary school system. Why am I talking? I lived this life, I lived as an engineer in Siemens, I lived after I graduated from the economy as a salesman of the multinational Slovenian company Rogaška Kristal, when I somehow gave the cups made in Slovenia to the largest players of the field at the most renowned tournaments where Slovenian knowledge was. I remember when Bill Clinton arrived in Slovenia — what did he buy? Did he go to the Faculty of Social Sciences or did he go to Rogaška's store and buy 16,000 euro of crystal high-end manofactory products? Look, ladies and gentlemen, here's our future. The one who's going to be a butcher, the master of his profession, will make the market its price. It's not about education. The greatest stories in the world, the greatest businessmen, the greatest musicians who have not finished the academy, and are top-notch, top-notch people, individuals. And these stories need to be told to people, young people. Look, this table. The market does not care if this man knows the Sunnet wreath in mind, but it is important that this table is made of the highest quality wood, with the highest added value and that it will be written on by Made and Slovenia for a long time. That's our story. Like my colleague, who makes shoes, he sells them in Moscow, Mario Hercog, sells them in Moscow, Hamburg, and costs between 2 and 3 thousand 500 euros. They're carried by the biggest stars in the world. And look, a man is a shoemaker. Who's more important? Is it someone who finishes her doctorate or the one who makes those shoes? The price works on the market and on the market we are all people and there we set out with one narrow specialisation that you are the best in one area. These are the stories and these stories can be very simple. And this, see, once again, is not a criticism of sociology, although in my words I could say that I am a critic, because sociology should give added value to all the products we have. And this added value is that we should explore foreign markets, we should create new brands, all that would give added value to our manofactory. And there's this lack of social skills. So the whole kind of direction that we've been developing has not been passed on by the economy. There's a lot at the expense of the economy. So our companies are not at such a high level of development that certain FDV personnel can consume. There is also a part of the criticism, so there is also a part of the criticism. But right now, the elephant alarm has more than 20,000 young people with university education on the market, in Austria right now have 4,3% unemployment, among young people 8%, we have over 20%. See, the dual school system in Austria shows incredibly good effects. Their passwords, such as: Ausbilden durch Lehre, 80% Einwohner brauch keye academische Ausbildung, discusses this particular case. 80% of the population finishes studies in the dual school system, 20% study, 20% study. And we people who aren't talented, we can't sponsor or make them wait 15, 20 years for a master's degree in the school system. Each of us is capable of something. And these people, look, we need to steer them right. And that is also with us, in our mind, in the values of our society, what can give us these effects. Someone who is a master of his profession is equal to me and a lot of people who have completed their university. This is the one and their price will be sought by markets in Slovenia and abroad. Look, as long as this mentality is not with us Members, as long as this mentality is not in the school system, and as long as this mentality is not also with parents who sometimes shape the fate of their children, then, even if this marriage novelty succeeds, we cannot achieve all that we can achieve. Only a reason and a consequence of what I said before in Germany and Austria will give. So once again, I ask you, fellow distinguished colleagues, support this law, this is really something good, something welcome to our system, some refreshment, and I believe that it will show its effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I am very pleased with these discussions about our educational system. Unlike some, I must say that I liked the last debate. Unlike some who somehow looked at our education with fear, I must say that I am optimistic. Our education system, so primary, secondary, is good. For he produces good staff, proven, in the world of good looking. It is true, however, that the gap between education and the economy is increasing. And that's not good. That's what we found out today, we find out, we've already figured it out. Something has to be done here. In this area, the country established, I think in 2003, 2004 the inter-enterprise educational centres with which it wanted a direct response to education for the needs of the economy. 19 such MICs have been established, of which I think 6 or 7 works very well. Those for whom companies have found that they need them work. This means that it is not necessary and must not be pointed only to a system, such as education, how education educates poor or inappropriate personnel for the immediate needs of the economy, but it is also necessary to ask what the economy is, and I am talking about chambers, both crafts and economic chambers, what they have done and what they want to do to offer an education hand and do something that would benefit them together. Look, years ago, there were a lot of these offers for young people to go to for jobs, get scholarships, get jobs and so on. There's been less of this lately. I went through some sort of process myself. Since 1965, my father, when he took over the craftsmanship, has somehow been in the family as a younger son of some apprentice. And I went through this process, and I know what that means. You know what? They taught me at home that work is a value. That you shouldn't be ashamed of anything. And here it begins, in the family, in the upbringing, whether children have enough work to do, whether every job is honorable for them, or doing at home what they have to do, and whether they have such examples in their parents. Then the upgrade of this system and the addition is the educational process. We've got schools, we've touched elementary schools today, we've got technical studies, we've got science days, we've got technical days where children get acquainted with certain processes of work. They have been introduced into different professions since the seventh grade. However, I am sure that this is not enough and that you, too, about this organisation, about the amendment of the Basic School Act, could also begin to think about this. It means, on the whole line, something should be done in the entire segment, but not so quickly, but thoughtfully and of course in agreement with all those involved in this process. It means, with economists as well as those responsible in the field of education. It's like that at school. School falls and grows up with a teacher. It's that teacher. We can make such a system, we can adopt such laws, and if we do not have the best people working with young people, then such a system will not help us. As you mentioned today, Finland has the best staff to train for teaching professions. And then they work with young people. And what colleague Bosic said today about talent recognition and so on, in schools we have a good system, a well-designed system for identifying talented students. When a student recognizes his talent, he has to build on it. But we must allow him to take full advantage of his potential. Therefore, the school system must be such that each child can take advantage of his or her potential to have the same conditions as all others, regardless of what kind of family he or she lives in, what social relations are in their family. And here in Parliament we have talked a lot about this. Unfortunately, sometimes some good suggestions have been overlooked and have not been confirmed, although we all think well of our children, we all think well of our citizens and citizens, just the way or how to get to those goals, we have different. The Act on Vocational and Vocational Education had already been in force and had ceased in 2006. The evaluation studies carried out by foreign experiments under the Phare Mocca programme have highlighted the inadequate exercise of apprentice status, and these studies have also shown that more modernisation of secondary and secondary education programmes is needed. I was told by the representatives of the Ministry that this proposal, which has now been drafted and is already in the public debate, follows this evaluation and the expert opinions that have been given and that discussions are being prepared with all the partners involved, namely the economy, trade unions and all those who are supposed to be given the results they want. I also welcome this intention of the SDS, which they came to the National Assembly and this debate, and I expect the Ministry to listen and to use all these questions, all these answers, even in the preparation of their law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Kavticnik. I also ask Dr. Mirko Pecarič, State Secretary, if he wants a word on behalf of the Government. Then the proposer and the end of the debate in the first part. Here you go, Dr. Mirko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. First, I would like to define myself to the content where there was talk about us claiming to be a complete copy of the previous law. The opinion of the Government clearly speaks of the almost unchanged summary in the section on apprenticeship, which is the opinion of the Government. Speakers have repeatedly said that the proposal will also expose the employer to greater responsibility. That is true, but they are already skeptical of this added value that the apprentices will be able to show. Since 2006, in fact, all the elements of apprenticeship have been preserved, except for the status of apprenticeship, so that they can actually serve it smoothly if they agree to do so. All of these discussions have been very useful, welcome, in fact, I could conclude that we all agree with the introduction of a dual system, that there is a need to link the theory more closely with the practice that a more flexible education system is needed, which at the end of the day also shows the adoption of the Youth Guarantee Programme. The government does not reject apprenticeship, nor does it hear the European Commission's call under this regime, which is why, as we say, we have drawn up a proposal for a law following Europe, is comparable to that which links education with the economy. It is true, however, that for some good model of apprenticeship, it is necessary to connect on one hand so different from education, work and economy, including trade unions and chambers. apprenticeship is more a matter of employment than education. The German dual system has been mentioned several times, but the chambers have professional membership there, not as it is with us where the compulsory membership was abolished. Thus, the amendments are welcome, and we agree with them, which is why we have drawn up a proposal for a law containing both the status of the student and the introduction of apprenticeship, as well as the right to education for all foreigners who are taxable, to align the conditions for adult education with that of young people in formal, professional and professional education. We set conditions for admission to education, vocational courses and conditions for admission of students with special needs. This is not only a question of change, but also an active approach. As far as our bill is concerned compared to the proposal of the Group of Members, we can see that the proposal of the Group of Members was published a month before our proposal on e-democracy. The government's proposal will be in public debate by 18 May, then it will go into government procedure. However, it is essential that the proposal of the Group of Members provides for the launch of their proposal with effect from 1 September 2016, while the Government's proposal foresees the implementation of the next school year. As far as the funds are concerned, the already adopted Youth Guarantee contains a measure to encourage employers for apprenticeships, so in 2014, 2015 allocates to this part 8.7 million of the total 30 million, which are earmarked for funding in the new perspective. As far as our students are concerned, it has already been mentioned that they are very good in some areas. In European international competitions, in fact, they are at the top, so not everything is so black. In fact, in the case of unemployment, let’s say students or students with higher education record only 3 to 4% of unemployment. As regards the direct link between vocational education enrollment and apprenticeship, this is only a direct link, not a direct link, and it will have only a change in the structure of the internal structure of admission to these vocational schools. Our marriage or government proposal is due to be held on 18 May, then the public debate will go to the Government and in which we regulate in a broader sense the status of student or apprentice student and all other accompanying issues, institutions, so that apprenticeship can also be fully revived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Dr. Roast. Ms. Matey Pučnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, once again, Madam Vice President. I must say that I am pleased with the debate that took place today in these three hours, I think that we have had a constructive debate and, despite the concerns of some individuals, I can conclude that all of us, as well as government representatives, agree that changes in vocational and professional education are essential. I regret that some individuals are obviously disturbed only by the fact that we have tabled the bill and the amendment of this law in the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party, if the idea is good, but you are not the right investors. See, once again, the data on 130 thousand unemployed young people, more than 30,000 young unemployed and those first-time job seekers. And from the data that we will have only 0.5% or 0.6% of economic growth this year, and unfortunately we are not yet able to talk about any economic boom, although everyone would like to, all of this data is called after these changes, even after changes in the education and education system and after tighter and faster I think also in the future, it is true that secondary education is closely linked to the needs of the labour market. This is precisely why we propose that, in addition to our professional vocational education, which is already taking place in Slovenia at this time, and is going well, and we do not have any comments about the application of dual education in this system, i.e. as an additional part of education offered. And we do not break the existing system of vocational education by doing so, but simply complement it with another option. And if this system is good for most European countries, especially those of the highly developed economies, I really don't see any problem and there is no problem that this dual system could not be good for Slovenia as well. Of course, with some adjustments, perhaps in a different version, but certainly, as I said before, we do not need to detect some warm water here. Employers also call after close cooperation. According to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, it is also an interest in apprenticeship. Thus, they also agree to reintroduce the apprenticeship system into our educational system, but it is true that they have concerns because this apprenticeship also means certain new financial burdens for certain companies. And that is why we have written the law so that, at least in this initial work, in these early years, when Slovenia is still in a deep economic crisis, our employers entering the apprenticeship system are also burdened and that part of these burdens brought by the apprentice are taken over by the state. I said earlier that the country has more opportunities to draw on financial resources and that emphasis should be placed on the successful use of financial resources, and this can be done through the Smart Specialisation Strategy. On the other hand, it is certainly necessary to motivate young people, including those enrolled in secondary vocational schools, in order to make a more happy decision on the apprenticeship system. And here we also offer a solution that the working time of the apprentice for the time spent in the factory, either in the company or in the craftsman, is fully considered during the working period, i.e. during the insurance period. I would like to stress once again that we are very well aware that the amendments to this law also require cutting into the field of labour law. That certain articles should also be amended in the Labour Relations Act, including the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. And we don't see any problem in that. We want to find a solution here together. These changes can be submitted by the Government, you can prepare them in coalition, we can also prepare them in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we have enough experts to do this, we have already proved that. Perhaps even when we say that they have not joined or that our proposal for a law is not in line with the social partners. We also agree and welcome the solution to establish cooperation with trade unions working in the field of education and education, including with the competent chambers. In the follow-up process, there is certainly enough time for all these segments to be invited to cooperate and to seek a solution that will be optimal and will be improved by law. To conclude, I call once again on all coalition Members to reconsider this proposal of our law and to consider also what we want to achieve with this law and what this law brings. The fact is that we have not seen this system law, which is referred to by the representatives of the Ministry, and I do not even know that it exists, because the Government did not submit it after one year and a half to the National Assembly, so we decided to take the first step. The fact is also, and we cannot and cannot keep our eyes closed, that we are back on the threshold of the new political crisis, that we do not know whether we will have a government tomorrow or not. We don't know if the elections will be in July, as they say, or if they might be in September for the third week. And that is why it is so important that we are all aware together that these changes are absolutely necessary and that the time for all these public debates on the law offered by the Government may not be feasible at all. But I think we can still catch that time and we can all lead to life together. To conclude, once again, we do not claim this law to be ideal. There certainly is not, for things are becoming good during certain coordinations and upgrades. But I'm saying it could be a good foundation. And if we walk in here together, I'm sure we can supplement it, and we can fix it, so it'll be acceptable to everyone. Perhaps in the end it is just the thought that caring for our youth and their rapid and successful entry into the work system cannot be a concern of the left or right. Young people must be our common concern, and this is also what we want to prove by this law, and that is why we also want coalition support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I would also like to ask that, by raising the deadlines for the debate, Mrs Mateja Pučnik and the representative of the Government, Mr Secretary of State, be represented, if there is a desire for further discussion. Does anyone want to discuss it? Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Obviously, we have announced too little time in the Group of Members, so I am grateful for these additional 5 minutes. As I have already described in my first debate a European perspective on this issue, I would also like to continue here. I add that the Alliance for apprenticeships has been practically supported by its joint statement by the European Commission, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers of the European Union and trade unions and employers' organisations at European level, the European Union Confederation of Trade Unions, BUSINESSEUROPE, the European Centre for Public Participation and Enterprises of General Economic interest, while the European Association of Crafts and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises encourages actions that will receive support from the European Social Fund, Youth Employment Initiatives and the new European Union Programme for Education, Training and Youth Erasmus Plus. Why am I listing this? These are resources, these are potentials that are somehow available to our country for Slovenia as well. That is why I say that it is so important that we discuss this content, that we discuss the alliance for apprenticeship and that we actually take advantage of these resources, which are also waiting for Slovenia, as soon as possible. Even in the light of this crisis, which is here, whether it will occur tomorrow or tomorrow. We have to work. Young people should not feel the crisis any more than they feel now. We call on all stakeholders to join the European Coalition or the European Alliance for apprenticeships and contribute to greater and better apprenticeship in Europe, the Commissioners said in a joint statement. These are Commissioners, Commissioner for Education, Culture, Multilingualism and Youth, Mrs Vassiliou, and Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion, Mr László Andor. We in New Slovenia add: apprenticeships play a key role in the fight against youth unemployment, as they provide young people with the skills and experience sought by employers. I think we're all united here. In countries with established vocational education and training systems, such as Germany, which by the way, as we discussed on the Committee on European Union Affairs, has offered assistance to Member States. Why not accept the kind of help someone is offering? Thus, unemployment among young people is lower in countries such as Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria. This finding is confirmed by the Commission in the latest three-month review of employment and social conditions in Europe, which shows that apprenticeships and traineeships are often a jumping board for permanent employment. The apprenticeships are therefore a key element of the Youth Guarantee proposed by the Commission in December 2012 as part of the Youth Employment Package and adopted by the Council in April 2013 by the Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek. Ladies and gentlemen, we must join forces and act immediately to ensure that our young people acquire the skills they need to succeed in their personal and professional lives. Given the unacceptable unemployment rate of young people, it is essential that those responsible for education and employment work together to facilitate the transition of young Europeans from school to professional life. This is my second contribution, and once again I express my support for this proposal for the amendment of the law, and I hope that so much common sense will be present in this Chamber, taking into account the current situation, that we support this legislative substance and continue the process in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see he does. Since there was a call for a time-sharing application, that's the problem, we had a time-sharing earlier, and that's why you [[…]] Here you go. Procedurally, Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u56	Madam Vice-President, I do not want to complicate the debate, but there have been a few tones in the debate that I think are really important to react to. Mr Pukšič spoke earlier about how a young generation, an educated generation is virtually unemployed, when they have no knowledge that employers find that they are useless and similar. I do not think it is right in this national council to talk about young people, whether they are educated in one way or another, through vocational and vocational education or through universities. This can be said only by older fossils who no longer have contact with reality and who do not see that new generations are armed with new knowledge, new approaches and that in fact the Internet world has armed them with many, many tools.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u57	Proposal, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u58	Mrs Brunskole, I would expect you to prevent such discussions, which are on the ground somewhere and do not have any contact with reality. Our young generation is unemployed for reasons other than their own. In the future, I expect you to consistently prevent such discussions because they are not correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal, although a little of your debate was also a bit harsh. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public finances. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the motions for Mrs Romani Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your word, dear colleague. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to amend the Public Finance Act in order to improve or try to ensure conditions for improving the liquidity of the Slovenian economy. As a result of the credit crunch and the lower inflow of liquid assets into the economy, companies are forced to extend payment deadlines or are often unable to pay their obligations at all. The problem of payment non-discipline in Slovenia is not a new phenomenon. It has been present for a long time, and several laws have already been passed, all of which were designed in order to improve the situation in this area. Nevertheless, economists still and every day specifically point out that inequity in the economy remains one of the key problems that plagues their business. The recovery of the banking system, which is supposed to result in more money coming into the economy and making the economy more liquid in some way, but that was not the case. Late payments and long payment deadlines often lead to healthy businesses, which in fact did not have any liquidity problems at all in the beginning, to some inexhaustible situation when external factors also start to pay their obligations and thus somehow get involved in this cycle, which causes a general payment non-discipline in Slovenia. It is true that the concern for liquidity and solvency is, in the first place, the concern of each undertaking itself. This must ensure an adequate cash flow and verify the ratings of its customers, but the functioning of the payment system as such is also in the hands of the State. One way the state can help solve this problem is to reduce the payment deadlines that the state takes into account when paying its own bills or obligations. We are aware of what the payment deadline is now in force, but it is also a fact that there are very many problems related to the fact that the country does not settle its obligations within the prescribed deadlines set by law. As we say, with the proposed amendments to this law, we want to ensure that the situation of the economy improves in this difficult situation, so that the state helps to do so. We believe that this will have no financial impact, but that only the liquidity flow will be slightly different. Finally, the State is also a very large contracting entity in the context of public procurement and can only carry out public procurement when it has the means to pay its obligations. At the same time as this proposal to shorten the deadline, and not to forget not only the States as a direct budget user, but also all indirect budgetary users, we are also building this on the fact that the payment deadlines are no longer regulated in the Budget Implementation Act every year or for each budget individually, but that this becomes a general rule and, as such, is transposed into the general law, which is the Public Finance Act. In this way, we believe that the state will be able to make a substantial contribution to solving the problem of liquidity and in this difficult situation, in its own way, to help businesses cope with the crisis with as few problems as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Master's degree Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed amendment of the law interferes with two regulations, the Law on Public Finance and the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, in order to shorten the deadlines for payment of public treasury obligations and to highlight the permanent nature of the provision by moving this content into the Public Finance Act. In assessing the appropriateness of the proposed amendments, account should be taken of the fact that the payment deadlines laid down by the annual law governing the implementation of the budget are consistent with the deadlines laid down by the Law on the Prevention of Delays in Payments, which transposes into the Slovenian legal order, in the relevant part, a European directive setting out measures to combat late payments in commercial transactions. Although payment deadlines are fixed by the annual law, this is also the direction of the ZJF, they do not change frequently. The latest changes regarding the fixing of payment deadlines were made in 2009 and 2010 respectively. These amendments also set a payment deadline for indirect budgetary users, which had not been specifically set before, in such a way that, as a rule, the payment deadline for direct users of budgets is 30 days and for indirect users is no more than 30 days. At the same time, for the first time, the possibility of pre-payments from the budget was significantly expanded. Prior to those changes, the payment deadlines for direct budget users were fixed so that the payment deadline for investment expenditure and investment transfers was 60 days and for the payment of other liabilities was 30 days. It follows from the above that the legal provisions in recent amendments did not extend the payment deadlines but, on the contrary, they were reduced. In connection with the proposed reduction of payment deadlines, account must also be taken of Article 54 of the Public Finance Act, which provides that the legal basis and the level of the obligation arising from the authentic bookkeeping instrument must be verified and confirmed in writing before payment. In this regard, in order to prevent errors in accordance with the sub-legislative acts of the direct and direct users of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the financial operation of the Authority should be organised by establishing tasks between the guardian of the contract, the custodian of the item, the motioner of the order and the professional services. Each of these services shall set out the control tasks to be performed before payment of the account can be made. In addition to the obligations of all these controls, it is also important to prepare data for the liquidity implementation of budgets and arrangements for the payment of cash in sub-accounts. The government assessment is that the proposed 15-day deadline does not preclude the execution of all the tasks described. In view of all the above and given that the deadline for direct and indirect users of budgets is in line with the requirements of the European Union, the Government considers that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance is not appropriate for further consideration and that we propose to the National Assembly that it does not support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mr Aloise Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you. Your Honor, I will be brief, but unequivocal. The problems cannot be solved simply by amending the three articles of the Public Finance Act. The proposed amendment cannot be considered separately from the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments, which is a system law. Article 1 speaks only of measures to eliminate payment non-discipline, i.e. measures concerning one of the main reasons described by the applicants for the proposed amendment. In particular, I would focus on Articles 11 and 12 of the Law on the Prevention of Delays in Payments, i.e. those articles which talk about payment deadlines when the debtor is a public authority, and on the fixing of a payment period if it is not agreed. From this point of view, the group considers that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, as it is prepared, is inappropriate for further consideration. We don't support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will present its position, Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much again for your word. Let us first talk about the payment non-discipline and liquidity problems they have in the Slovenian economy. Paying non-discipline is a multi-cause problem, hampers current business, increases distrust among business partners, reduces mutual cooperation, affects economic growth and, of course, slows down economic development. This is a kind of chain reaction where poorly liquid firms late payment also influence the economic operators with which they operate. As a result of the unpaid payments made, they are late to pay for their obligations. This begins the vicious cycle of payment discipline and repeats itself and becomes harder and harder to cut. According to the data prepared by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which has also published them publicly on its websites, the main reasons for payment non-discipline are the following. There is no real money from domestic savings, and foreign money from which we financed past growth is not enough. Credit crunches, banks do not lend or the conditions for obtaining loans by small companies are almost impossible to meet. Among the basic reasons, the Economic Chamber also mentions the unethical, immoral and illegality of default and the extortion of long payment periods from small enterprises mainly by large, economically powerful companies. Fourthly, the Economic Chamber states that the country, national, regional and local level and all state-owned enterprises are very poor mercenaries. The problem is also that public procurement as a criterion in selection only takes into account the lowest price. The State is often a bad leader of public procurement and investment projects, not a measure where subcontractors are not paid for undisputed work and are therefore late in the implementation of projects. The Economic Chamber is also concerned with the institutions of judicial proceedings which they consider have not taken seriously measures to reduce payment non-discipline. Due diligence has been given to the implementation of procedures to address business and increasingly life-threatening problems of small enterprises that cannot afford long-term and complex judicial proceedings as quickly as possible. Even though these procedures would ultimately be successful, these small enterprises will long have failed in their favour due to the difficulties of intermediate exhaustion of businesses until a legal decision is reached. Payments are lagging behind for objective reasons in the wider environment for the so-called business reasons of others before and, of course, this problem is even greater in the crisis. They note that the measures taken by the State in this area so far have not been effective. Reason? The Act on the Prevention of Delays in Payments, the Compulsory Netting, the Extension of Payment deadlines did not give the desired effect and direct payments to subcontractors are not implemented. Non-discipline in payments has the greatest impact on the inequity and insolvency of small and medium-sized enterprises, which, in this way, are most often in difficulty with unavailable loans not provided by the bank. As a result, they are looking for solutions. And they find you in three ways. The first is cost reduction, which means savings in administrative operations, which means dismissal of workers, which means relocation of production to areas where the cost of the product is much lower, adjustment of production to demand reduction levels, reduction of workers' salaries, reduction of the percentage of resources earmarked for development and so on. On the other hand, such companies are looking for new or additional sources of funding to improve liquidity. For this purpose, they seek, in particular, bridging loans or additionally indebt, sell their shares and increase their late payments. However, the third way in which they try to bridge poor liquidity is to postpone or cancel the planned investments and business expansion plans. As a result, of course, this can also mean the postponement or even rejection of new business. The fact is that payment non-discipline is very restrictive for the development and functioning of the economy. Let me illustrate this with the exact figures that come from a few days ago, but we can find them on the ICPES websites where reports on the operations of entities with outstanding obligations are published. We can see that there were 6 000 legal entities in Slovenia in March that had blocked accounts. At the same time, there were 8,000 682 independent entrepreneurs who had blocked current accounts or transaction accounts. The average amount, the daily amount of outstanding liabilities reached for the first one, amounted to EUR 746 000, compared to EUR 136 000 for independent entrepreneurs. It is further very concerned about the fact that, last year, at the expense of not receiving payments from the State, 266 creditors submitted enforcement for failure to pay the State. Of course, the State should settle its obligations within 30 days, as the law says, or even earlier in some cases. But it often does not, and this provision is respected only in exceptional cases. However, given the tightening of the liquidity situation in the budget as well, of course it is still expected that the situation will deteriorate here. As the Secretary of State has already mentioned, we are also aware that the current deadlines set in the ZIPR do not deviate from the average deadlines applicable in other countries as well. We are also aware of the existence of a Directive of the European Parliament of 2011 on combating late payments in trade transactions. This sets out normal hands that are supposed to be there between 30 and 60 days. At the same time, however, it is also worth noting one provision of this Directive, which states that, as a rule, public authorities have safer, more predictable and more continuous revenue flows than companies. In addition, many public authorities can obtain funding under more favourable conditions than companies. At the same time, public authorities are less dependent on stable business relations to achieve their objectives as companies and long payment periods, and delays in payments by public authorities for goods and services lead to unjustified costs for businesses. It is therefore appropriate to introduce specific rules for commercial transactions in the supply of goods or the provision of services to public authorities by undertakings, in particular as regards payment periods. All of this we are aware of and, of course, the directive allows for these deadlines to be different. I would like to mention another point at the end that we will know how very problematic this area of inefficiencies is. A while ago, we also adopted the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments, which is intended to significantly improve the liquidity situation in companies, here in the National Assembly. But according to the data from the source, I think even from yesterday or before yesterday, when the results of the fourth round of multilateral netting were published in 2014 show that the debtors in this fourth round have reported their liabilities totalling EUR 547 million and some, but only 36 million have been accounted for. This is a fight of 6,6 % of all reported claims. I am convinced that the Government is also aware, and of course the coalition that the situation in Slovenia is far from normal today, that we cannot talk about a normal business environment for the business of Slovenian companies. And, of course, it is also very difficult to compare the so-called normal payment deadlines in Slovenia with what other countries have or which directives prescribe. Our initiative and our proposal for amendments to the law is solely intended to help businesses in this situation, to realize how difficult their business is at present, that the crisis is far from over, that we are actually only in the middle or even at the beginning of this crisis, that the banking system, which should help businesses, does not work by supporting them with loans. On the other hand, the State, the Government, the coalition in all its performances, including in the coalition contract, the reform programme, promised major projects in all documents, the State's participation in the launch of investment projects and, as such, not only as a large subscriber, but also as a large payer. And this large payer can, with faster payments, with more robust payment deadlines, very much help to increase liquidity for economic operators, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. With this adoption of our proposal, we believe that we would be very helpful to the small and medium economy, and I hope, my fellow Members, that you will also support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u68	Respected and respected! To perhaps make it a little clearer what we are talking about, it is worth stressing that we are talking about a bill that provides for a reduction of the payment deadlines for budget users to 15 days. That we will not create too many expectations that this means cutting all payment deadlines and that small and medium-sized enterprises will be obliged to pay each other within 15 days from now. In doing so, I would like to remind you that in 2009 and 2010, we have dealt very much with the issue of payment deadlines for direct and indirect budgetary users. That's when we made significant progress. It is recalled that prior to those changes, payment deadlines were fixed only for direct budgetary users, namely for investment expenditure and investment transfers on day 60 and for payment of all liabilities on day 30. With the changes made at the time, we put in place the payment deadline for direct budgetary users as of day 30, while for indirect budgetary users there are no more than 30 days. In doing so, we contributed to a substantial reduction in payment deadlines and, of course, the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments was also adopted in that mandate. It is appropriate to join the calls made by some speakers to assess whether or not significant progress has been made with that law. I am the result of 36 million Euros of the total of more than 600 million Euros reported in the fourth round of multilateral netting, and I do not even consider it a failure. In that law, to me, to be honest, it is more concerned that, at that time, administrative measures have actually affected the field of civil law, which should be subject to a high degree of dissatisfaction, i.e. the autonomy of the parties' will to determine the essential components of their mutual business. And payment hands are such an ingredient. Therefore, it would be appropriate to examine what happened to this law. There is a strong impression that in many entities, especially in the economy, an effective payment period has actually extended to that extreme option for 120 days. This is particularly true in the business of suppliers with large economic systems. The Group of Social Democrats will oppose the proposed law, we believe that it does not allow optimal planning of liquidity in the country's operations in a given situation and that, in fact, an important step has been taken in the past in this area. However, it is still worth noting that in Slovenia we should not replace two problems that may lead to the wrong diagnosis. I have been warning for a long time that in Slovenia it is not a problem of payment non-discipline, i.e. whether I have the will to fulfil my obligation, but with the issue of indemnity, it is the absence of the ability to meet your obligations. The diagnosis also depends on the range of medicines and measures we will use to address the problem. The recipe for tackling the problem is to continue economic recovery and to continue to actively confront the country with the economic situation and to influence the fact that large economic nodes are also within the restructuring of the economy to be resolved as actively and successfully as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! The proponents first find that Slovenia is the only country that is still in economic crisis and that payment discipline is the biggest problem of the Slovenian economy. None of them are true. The economic crisis and its most destructive features, high unemployment, unfortunately persists in a number of European countries, but recently signs of recovery have been detected in Slovenia, which will be felt by the small and medium economy and the population only a short time. Paying discipline is certainly a problem. In 2013, according to GZS data, the payment deadlines exceeded 120 days. However, even more so is the fact that frequently exposed accounts are not even settled because companies are failing due to the interconnection of debts. In fact, the country is a rather exemplary partner in this area. It pays mainly within a 30-day period, which puts it among the best payers. Would the country's reduced payment deadlines help to improve the economic situation in Slovenia? This is possible, of course, but when reviewing the legislation governing payment deadlines, we can find that it is designed in accordance with the European Union's provisions and does not deviate significantly from the European average, which indicates that payment deadlines cannot be the main cause of the crisis. To avoid any confusion, this law does not refer to payment deadlines in general; it does not refer to payment periods with which companies have the most problems; this law only refers to the payment deadlines of the State. Perhaps the reduced deadlines would slightly increase the liquidity of some companies operating with the country, and this would, of course, correspond to a variety of policies to a friendly company. But they probably wouldn't have had a significant, broader impact on the economy. Paying discipline is not the cause of our problems, but only the symptoms of something deeper. The reason for the problems of the Slovenian economy is that neither the left nor the right parties with tradition want to cancel their kindergartens in state-owned companies, where they place political personnel in the leading positions, which companies are either deliberately exhausting or leading so badly that they are in trouble. The client interests and the political management of businesses would probably be able to say something on both the left and the right, about the ability of the people they have recruited. We can learn a lot in the media about how their decisions were conditioned. Just remember some of the most resounding cases, such as Timer, Mouse, Lochshin, Golob, Kovacic and so on. Involvement of policy in the economy has helped to make the Slovenian economy today largely uncompetitive and over-indebted. Every time the possibility of a change in governance and the start of privatisation has been seriously indicated, customers have gone through tradition and have started blind manoeuvres to protect their interests, whether by proposing, such as today, the creation of new wood cutting companies or another brilliant idea. Of course, we urgently need all this to ensure the well-being of a small person, to ensure economic recovery or to protect national interest, if I can be a little cynical. The bill before us is understood as well as another type of blind maneuvers that likes and gives a sense of magical solution to the start of the economy, but does not touch the essence. He doesn't touch the appetites of politics by the economy. Until we remove politics and countries from most businesses, until then our economy will not be able to develop a breakthrough, even if the country's payment deadlines are reduced to one day or not, the country will start operating with some such loving cash.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Paying non-discipline is undoubtedly one of the key problems of our economy. Once the payment of the liabilities starts to stall down the supply chain, serious complications usually arise for all participants who do not have strong liquidity reserves. We have a number of cases where companies have broken down and ended up bankrupt only because, after a number of delays in payments for their supplies or services, they have not been able to provide sufficient liquidity to continue their operations. And in this way, Slovenia has lost a certain job. Only because payment non-discipline, i.e. the extension of deadlines, the postponement of payments and the like, has already become a generally established business practice that many are using. Although the previous governments have noted this problem, the economy has been actively alerted to it, but too many measures have not produced the desired results; for example, mandatory claims netting. At that time, it was also repeatedly said that the state should first clear up its own affairs regarding regular payments, and then it would be able to ask others to do so. The truth is, although budgetary users have limits to thirty days, they are even longer in practice after many testimonies. A good two years ago, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce conducted a survey where most of the respondents claimed that state institutions as well as many municipalities in the vast majority were settling their obligations for goods and services between the ages of thirty-one and one hundred twenty days. The violation of the 30-day marriage period is therefore also common on the part of the State. Your Honor! In this respect, the matter shall be stopped. How should the State effectively fight against payment non-discipline if it is not yet able to provide payment within the statutory deadlines? How should the State require the company to become more active in business planning and regular payments if it is not able to provide funds for its suppliers within the required deadlines? The undeniable fact is that both direct and indirect budget users are financed from pre-prepared and adopted budgets, so that they have a large majority of the funds already provided under their plans. From this point of view, it is unacceptable that such delays occur, even though the money should be provided. The Public Finance Act, prepared in the SDS, leads to a reduction in payment deadlines for direct and indirect budget consumers from 30 days to 15 days. If we know that even a 30-day deadline for public consumers is difficult to hold on to, it is really a question of what would happen when these deadlines are cut. Would violations of payment deadlines continue as before? In the Slovenian People's Party, we see this bill as an attempt to change the payment organisation of the wider public sector. In fact, earmarking will also have to be provided before any call for proposals or contracts. And when the level of funds is foreseen, then the shorter payment deadline should not be a problem. In particular, as a key anti-adoption is against the adoption of this amendment, it is not possible for the proposed period of 15 days to carry out appropriate controls on the goods supplied. In their opinion, they thus state a number of control procedures which must be carried out from the acquisition of goods or services. However, man is appalled at this scale of the required administration and wonders how all of this works. We are therefore convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that, if the State wants to successfully deal with the issue of payment non-discipline in the economy, it must first clean up before its threshold. Therefore, the support of members of the Slovenian People's Party to this novel so that we can continue to discuss this issue and seek further solutions to how to facilitate the work of Slovenian companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposed cut-off solutions for both direct and indirect budgetary users require a sound analysis of the financial implications for the state budget in our conduct. Above all, the advantages that would convince us that shortening the payment deadline is so highly justified. As such analysis has not been provided and the arguments for shortening the deadlines have not convinced us, we have decided in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners that the move in the direction proposed by the proposer is not acceptable. This two-week shift in payment will not contribute to the overall increase in payment discipline, but even less to the improvement of economic liquidity and related economic growth and the reduction of unemployment. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we estimate that this proposal does not follow sufficiently the principle of efficiency and cost-effectiveness, in which it is intended to contribute to a more effective payment discipline. In our view, it is a proposal that cannot successfully tackle the established Slovenian problems of payment non-discipline. Just setting a 15-day deadline does not solve this problem, does not improve liquidity. The current 30-day deadline is appropriate according to our assessment, so we do not see the need to change. But it is true that even the state does not adhere to the deadlines it has enacted. Let me remind you that last year the average payment period was 49 days, i.e. 19 days late after the statutory 30-day deadline. In the business world, however, companies stuck to the maximum statutory 60-day payment deadline. Therefore, we believe that, given that the state is regulating the rule of law, it should be an example. Therefore, we do not need any changes, only consistent respect for and implementation of the prescribed ones. I repeat, only consistent respect and compliance. In the context of the general debate, however, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are determined not to give support to the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President! Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act concerns the issue of payment discipline or, rather, payment discipline in our country. A number of legislative measures have been taken by regulating the area of payment discipline, but have not produced results in this area. A specific law has been adopted, specifically the Law on the Prevention of Delays in Payments, where it has been set as the longest time limit for payment of goods and services between economic operators for 60 days and is exceptionally permissible for a longer period. The law established a compulsory netting institution, but this basic law did not produce results. With the amendment of this law in 2012, we introduced a new instrument, an executive, as an instrument of payment or payment insurance with a view to increasing payment discipline. However, even after a good year and a half of its adoption, the executive did not bring results. The IAPES data show that payment discipline has not been regulated in the last year. It is clear from the data provided by IJPES relating to payments made on the basis of tax debt judgments and tax enforcement costs that the number of business entities with mature outstanding liabilities increased by almost 40 % over 5 days in the last year. There has also been an increase in the number of issues in the roadblocks. The average daily amount of outstanding liabilities reached increased by one fifth. Data on the number of non-payments in independent entrepreneurs are even worse. According to the Economic Chamber, in companies that do not offer exclusive essential products and services, the payment deadlines are on average 120 days and more. The percentage of accounts where payments are late has increased over the past year. Among the activities where late payments are still the largest are construction, trade and processing activities. Paying non-discipline therefore remains a major problem in our economy, and above all it is a major obstacle for foreign business partners and foreign investors when they decide to operate in our business environment. Otherwise, they also face the problem of extending payment deadlines abroad, but obligations are paid within contractually agreed deadlines or there are cases of delays in good practice which are consistently respected. In case of late payment, the business partner shall be notified in advance and shall state the reason for the delay and a new payment period shall be set, within which the payment is also actually made. We have not yet won such business practices. As far as payment discipline is concerned in our country, it is obvious that only with changes in the legislation of the objective – reducing payment deadlines and eliminating late payment delays cannot be achieved. The problem remains significantly greater in Slovenia, and this is the enforcement of the legislation adopted. We can't just point our finger at the National Assembly here. Christian Democrats note that there is a major problem on the part of the supervisory authorities, which should take care of the implementation of legislation and to sanction violations in a consistent manner, but unfortunately that is not the case. In most cases, however, the supervisory authorities are themselves intended, and particular consideration must be given to the fact that the legal provisions concerning payment deadlines are not adhered to by the State. According to legal provisions, the State should settle its obligations within 30 days at the latest. This provision, however, respects only exceptionally – in the case of indispensable goods and services, or is in breach of it peacefully and without all sanctions. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats We are convinced that the country is the first one to stick to the rules and to be an example in meeting the commitments made. As long as the country that is in breach of the rules on compliance deadlines is not able to require citizens or business entities to comply with the statutory payment deadlines in a consistent manner. Christian Democrats will support the legal solutions that reduce the payment deadlines for the country's obligations from the current 30 to 15 days, because we believe that this is one of the solutions that could help reduce payment deadlines. Of course, only if the statutory payment deadlines are also implemented in practice. As Members of the New Slovenia Group have said, we will support or vote in favour of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I give the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat prepare. Here you go, Mrs. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! At our previous meeting, we supported the amendment of the agricultural law, where we have set a gradual reduction in payment deadlines for rapidly corrupting goods or for food. We confirmed it I think with a large majority, if not without a vote against. We all had good intentions to get money in the hands of those who produce food or offer it to the market. What's going on in practice now? In practice, companies buying from our producers force producers into different arrangements, force them to operate through so-called factoring companies, that is to say in the sale of discount claims and in practice these companies buying or selling these goods to businesses do not get paid sooner, but later and get less, because these companies dealing with the divestment of claims also take their share of the transaction. And even though we all had good intentions, I am sure, along with the ministry and also the opposition that you supported. And the lesson of this story is – what? Do not interfere or interfere as little as possible, for by interfering too often he does more harm than good. Now, if I continue with the SDS proposal, when they propose a reduction of payment deadlines for direct budgetary users. I agree with this proposal in the context that if the state does not pay as soon as possible and quickly as possible, how should this example be followed by the economy or businesses operating on the market. And I understand your proposal, of course, in the context that you want to say that the state should be an example in paying discipline. But there's another problem. If this idea is to be implemented, this proposal of yours, we need more convertible capital in the budget, we simply need more money. And more countries often mean more money, and I ask the proponents where they see this additional financial resource. I am willing to support this proposal of yours if you provide me with an answer to where to obtain alternative resources. It is logical that if we are to reduce the payment deadlines now and pay everything within 15 days, we need more money in the first phase of the budget. And when we overstress ideas and proposals so easily in the National Assembly, often all together, I do not want to point to anyone, forget or ask ourselves too few times how these proposals will be put into practice, what will cause them in the field. This has also been the case with the amendment of the Agricultural Law, and I fear that this is the case with yours, although I am sure that there are good intentions. I will conclude with the idea that today we are considering two proposals by the SDS. I think that both proposals are common three. You're proposing more countries, you're proposing more tax evasion, and if I'm a little harsh, I'd say you're proposing practical new debt or alternative resources that you're just going to explain to me. All three of them are not of their own nationality, but to this day I have been convinced that they are not even a party to the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you, too. I give my word to the proposer. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to take the floor on behalf of the proposer and explain that it is very, very far from us proposing a new debt, and we are particularly stressing that this is not an additional financial asset. No additional funding will be required, no additional funding. When I also listened carefully to the Secretary of State, in fact, with this additional financial means, which you thought was necessary, there was nothing wrong with it. Because that's not what this is about. There won't be any more money. If you have to pay 100 units of your debt, then you have to pay 100 units. It's about whether we pay 100 units in 30 days or 15 days. Of course, this on the other hand means exclusively smart regulation of the cash flow. It is only that you have the money, the country as a direct budget user or indirect budget users, that when they order goods, when they order services, when they go to make an investment, they have the financial resources in the budget to do so. Otherwise it is not possible to procure goods and services and anything in the public sector. This is clear to everyone, even if he did not work in the public sector. This is how these things happen, and that is why we also have a budget where we plan in the budget how much funding will be earmarked for some purpose. And what we are proposing, once again, I will say no additional funding. And this theatre about additional debt, I'm sorry, it really goes beyond all limits. It's just about regulating the cash flow. I have made it very clear in the position of the Group of Members that we are aware that we are proposing something more, that the normal deadlines in Europe, in other developed countries are 30 days, but it is also usually that in these developed countries countries, or those who order goods, adhere to their contractual obligations and pay within those deadlines prescribed in the law. That's not the case with us. And 266 enforcement procedures initiated by companies because the state did not pay them – not because it did not pay them in time, but because it did not pay them at all – speak of the fact that the state is not a good payer is not a solid payer. We now want to help the economy in this way, with such a proposal, our intentions are the best, none of them as they have been exposed in some of the positions of the sent groups. We do not want anyone to be in a position to be treated differently in order to have a special status in these procurement procedures. No one. Our proposal is aimed at the whole economy, to improve the situation throughout the economy. It is not intended for any particular purpose and is written and proposed for the best of purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you, too. Replica, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u82	In my debate, I made it clear that I understand your proposal as well-intentioned. I also understand the first consideration of each marriage by exchanging views and opinions. And I am sure that when this debate is concluded, we will be able to resolve any other wise thoughts or dilemmas. But I just wanted to point out that if we want to pay earlier, at least in the initial stage, there will be increased pressure on public finances and the budget. Look, it makes sense to me, I don't know, that other colleagues will tell or that we will clear this up by the end of the debate. That's what I wanted to point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you. Procedural. Mr. Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I would suggest procedurally if Mrs Romani Tomc could sprint an explanation of what turnover is. Let me read: "These are the funds that a company or state urgently needs for a successful business. These are stocks, claims to customers, money and liabilities to suppliers. The purpose of the management of the turnover capital is to be sufficiently liquid for the payment of business claims and short-term liabilities." If we reduce obligations to suppliers by half due to a reduction in the payment deadline, money should be increased by the same amount. And for that we have to get these funds – according to my calculations it's 160 million. I repeat my procedural proposal to pass this definition of sprintate on to Mrs Romani Tomc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr Pavlišič, but you have already demonstrated by your own debate that in fact there is no point in copying materials, because you have partly explained yourself and this debate is also intended to exchange views. And I'm sure this regulation can be seen by the proposer at any time. Ms Romana Tomc wants the text as her proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would respond to a procedural proposal in the context of the applicant's word. Thank you, Mr. Pavlišič, for your concern. I am very clear of the concepts of what turnover is, as well as liquidity, solvency, payment discipline, and similar concepts. Of course I separate them from each other. Once again, I say that our proposal affects only the area of managing the liquidity of the budget, the cash flow and has nothing to do with any additional financial needs. And I don't really need any prints to know that. If you need them, it's your business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat could have a word, but she is not currently in the Chamber. The next debater is mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose a solution to the reduction of payment deadlines for direct and direct budgetary users to subscribers, either services or investment projects and the rest, because we simply want to influence the better liquidity of the Slovenian economy, i.e. the recipients of these funds, which show a certain claim to the country, without suffering or suffering liquidity or budget execution. In recent months, we have often heard and read that the state has made a considerable deal with the fact that it has a lot of free resources and that the implementation of both the refinancing of the loans hired and the financing of the budget and all commitments made by adopting the budget is not a problem and is not at risk. More. The Prime Minister has ensured that there is no longer a need for additional debt this year, so that the money is sufficient. And if the state has enough to cover all its obligations both budgetary and other money, then I really don't know where the problem should be in a liquidity sense, and also otherwise to settle its obligations to subscribers as quickly as possible. I agree with the Secretary of State that it is necessary to make such checks prior to payment when the accounts are received, but at the same time I believe that it is possible to make these checks in a relatively short time if, of course, these controls are not too bureaucratic and if the objective is to offer a deadline to the economy here too. I believe that this proposed law is an important step towards improving the conditions of the economy, improving their liquidity, and that, after all, it is also a step towards what Mrs Katarina Hočevar points out, in order for the previous payment to have to be hired or sought by other financiers with certain discounts. See, when we analyze the current government's action in the area of economic policy or improving the business environment or facilitating the economy, I must say that I hardly think of any concrete action that has been taken and which would at least help the Slovenian economy in some way. But I do know a lot of measures that have had a negative impact on the economy. These are all measures to increase tax burdens as well as excise duties. Personally, I think that until such proposals as on the table today, we should also have in mind whether we are even aware of who our car can pull out of this unseen situation, who can, therefore, drive Slovenia out of the crisis and create new jobs. It is only a Slovenian economy and also an investment from outside. Therefore, it is important to build on these measures and to support the actions of the opposition, even though with your teeth clenched, because you do not like doing this very much and you do have one very badly vaccinated aversion to it. But, sire, if we ever understand who also provides the salaries to Members of Parliament and the entire army of the public sector, then we will also understand that it is our primary task to help those who create and enable them to create even more and to employ more, especially young people. So I would really like to ask some benevolence to this proposal in order to achieve our common objective. When I also listen to the Prime Minister lately, when she talks about how Slovenia managed to bring Slovenia out of the crisis at some better time, and she starts to list some arguments for this, some numbers, is the first number of interest rates falling for the leased loans, another is economic growth in the last quarter, but then, it seems to me, it stops, I am seriously interested in what measures the Prime Minister means to take Slovenia on this better path. In fact, she completely destroyed one of these measures a few days ago. The financial markets have already responded to the last problems of coalition parties, especially Positive Slovenia, and have destroyed the full argument of the prime minister to ensure the political stability of this country. So one of these arguments, when we talk about some freakish exit from the crisis, is completely null and void. Secondly, when we talk about the fact that after the 6.7 quarters of the economic downturn, the first quarter of economic growth is the first quarter of economic growth, I am seriously interested in what measures this government attaches to, on the basis of which the measures are to take place. Because I don't know these measures. I also think that the economy does not know these measures, because, of course, they do not attribute this to domestic situations, but only to some increased demand in foreign markets and consequently larger exports. So, Your Honor, I beg you not to have such a negative attitude towards such proposals as this one. I agree with you that this is not a decisive measure or measure that would lead Slovenia out of the crisis, but there is one stone in the mosaic that can help the Slovenian economy in particular. In order to make the country as soon as possible, I think that, in the shortest possible time, both direct and indirect budgetary users will pay what they have ordered and for what they have in their financial plans and in their national budget, they will also pay for it. And once again, I really don't see the need for such instigation in us to impose additional burdens on public finances and on the need for debt. I think it was very clear from the representative of the proposaler that if we have to pay an account of EUR 10 000 or 100 000, if we pay it in 15 days, if we have funds reserved for it in the adopted budget and are in the account, because we have recently committed ourselves to it, then I really don't see where we should be hiring, so economically speaking, loans for turnover. I do not know, the Secretary of State, if there is a terminology of public finances, but they know it in economic operators when they need money for various purposes, in particular for various material things or services, to produce something and then to sell it later, and they need some bridging credit for it. However, in the case of public finances this is not the case, even though public finances sometimes need short-term credits to implement the budget or to ensure the liquidity of the state budget. But once again, with all these statements and debts that we have had in the last period, billions, by the way, at the end of last year, we have committed 1.5 billion euros to an unknown investor under relatively unattractive conditions, we have recently again committed ourselves, and it must be a lot if everyone is saying that enough is enough, or the prime minister, who is the first probably called to know that it is enough for this year and that we do not need any extra money for this year. Your Honor, I would really like to ask for a little more correctness to the applicants and, last but not least, more objectivity to what is the purpose of the bill itself. However, the objective is to help the economy and not to put public finances in a delicate or unenviable position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you. Mrs Maria Plevčak, who is not in the hall, could have the floor. The next one who could get a word is mag. Ivan Vogrin, he's not in the hall either. Then it's mag. Matthew Tonin, he is not in the hall right now, so I give the floor to Mr Mark Pavlisic. Here you go. But get ready, mag. Marco Pogačnik. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. It was already mentioned in the debate that there are thousands or tens of thousands of companies with blocked accounts. I am asking the proposers here how many fewer there will be after the possible adoption of this novel. That's not mentioned in your work. You don't put that answer in there. In fact, it's only right that you don't give it because the answer is nothing. Companies do not have blocked accounts because they would receive something from the State paid or unpaid within 15 or 30 days, but simply because they do not receive payments at all, usually from other entities, not by the State. Those on the side of the country are few battles. The proposal for a novel doesn't solve this problem. If that's what you wanted to solve, you're not gonna make it. With regard to what we have already mentioned, the need for additional capital or the additional money generated by this change. I absolutely agree here that if we have a budget, I don't know, 9 billion euros, it doesn't matter whether we pay that 9 billion in 30 days or 15 days or say that half of it is paid in bills, it doesn't matter whether we pay it in 30 or 15 days, 4 billion is 4 billion. However, the moment we introduce this law requires a change. When we move from a 30-day payment deadline to a 15-day payment period, the difference must be paid at that time or in a shorter period. And if we quickly recalculate, let's say, if we have 300 million invoices currently open for 30 days, if we go to 15-days, we just have to pay it right now. And according to my calculations, it brings this need for an additional 150 million. I did this calculation myself quickly because you did not make it in your proposal. So I can't talk about some numbers here, I might have made a mistake. However, it is needed for this purpose, for example, from EUR 100 to 150 million extra when we all know where we can get them today – only with additional debt. If this bill had been properly tabled, this information would also have been inside and could have been operated on with some real figures. Thus, we are left with some grades. Since this is a proposal for a law imposing the need for some additional turnover capital, provided by the Finance Minister, as he will assure him, we will never see this proposal when the SDS is in government. At that time, this proposal will not allow the proposer to come to the National Assembly. This is a typical opposition proposal that shows that something is being done in order to work, but in fact not all the consequences proposed by such a law are looked at. But if I'm wrong, if, when you're in the government, you come up with a proposal like this, then I believe you'll get support from a lot of other people. Payment discipline is definitely a problem in Slovenia. I was alone until I entered Parliament, worked all the time, 20 years in the economy, a little more than one year in the National Assembly, and then I also realized this side that is happening in Slovenia. I know what we're talking about here. However, payment discipline has practically never been a problem in payments by the State and payments from the budget. Paying non-discipline is a problem in paying off other entities, not those that we have here today under this law under consideration. This new law does not touch this problem far. Just very circumstantial. Of course, if someone gets paid earlier, we may expect him to pay even faster. But it's just, I'll say, more or less empty conjecture. If someone wants to pay, they can pay sooner than now. In doing so, let us remember another similar story that we cooked or cooked, and I was not here at the time, and also for the best of purposes. This was the payment to subcontractors. It has become legal to pay no more to the main contractor, the one who received an invitation, but to pay the subcontractors. We all know why this happened. Because the main contractor kept his resources and didn't pay subcontractors, so we solved it by law. What happened here in practice? In practice, then, a congregation, such as a kindergarten builder, has to pay its subcontractors. However, the accounts are still being liquidated by the main contractor. Since the congregation has no control over the whole matter, it is said that the main contractor must then confirm the accounts to subcontractors, inform the municipalities and then the municipalities will pay for it. In fact, what did we do? We've made an additional administrative burden on the contractors. Communities and subcontractors. Everyone. Then there are some other interesting problems. When subcontractors expect the municipality to pay and the municipality is unable to pay because the main operator of this account does not want to liquidate and then is "covering" the municipality from this point of view and are guilty of the mayors because they cannot actually pay, but the subcontractor expects payment from the municipality. And we have made once again one wonderful mess in this area, all with the best of intentions, just as we have today. And you know what happened to these subcontractors in the end? The main contractors began to establish their subcontractors, who then hired the right subcontractors as subcontractors. And still, all the payments went directly to the main contractor, who then held back, saying that we did not save the right subcontractors for the best of purposes again. Therefore, see, in all these proposals, there is a need to be very careful about what happens in practice and what we actually achieve.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you. Proposer, Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u92	I'd have a replica if I could.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u93	You have an opportunity as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u94	She'd have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u95	Replica? Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u96	I want a replica because I want to relate exactly what Mr Pavlisic said and once again point out that I am very well aware that with this bill we will not be able to solve the general problem of payment non-discipline in Slovenia. This is not our purpose or purpose either, but then we should arrange it elsewhere, perhaps in the Company Act or elsewhere, not in the Public Finance Act. We are talking about the Public Finance Act, which deals with the payment of direct and direct budget users. And only to these do we appeal as to those who should now, in order to help the economy to add a small fraction, contribute a small part to improving the liquidity situation of the economy. As for your calculations, Mr Pavlisic, I think you mentioned 150 million euros. Although I really don't know where you got this because these 15 days, look, the country gets revenue from an address, usually the most tax-related. If, at that moment, he does not forward this money into his obligations, such as paying social transfers or paying the bills, he charges it and then he gets interest on it. And only for the possible difference in interest, which would be less due to 15 days of money spent, would the worst-case scenario be possible. Not for the whole amount. Because if you were to hold on to this theory that you're presenting, then if the state were to pay a little bit 15 days earlier, and you would need 150 million euros of new money, yes, and then you wouldn't have to pay in December, for example. In the course of the process, this matter is carried out in such a way that, at the final stage, the state needs exactly the same money in one way or another. And once again, it is only a matter of cash flow and liquidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you. We continue the debate. I could get the word "magic." Marko Pogačnik, but he's not in the hall. The next one could get the word, Mr Joseph Horvat, and he's not in the hall either. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor. You don't want to discuss it. He's cancelling the debate. The next one could get the word, Mr Roberto Battelli, and he's not in the hall either. The next is Mrs Iva Dimic, not in the hall. The next debater could be Mr Franz Jurša, and he is not in the Chamber either. Mrs. Romana Tomc as SDS? No, no, no. I'm asking if a representative of the government would like a word. Yeah. The word has magic. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Undoubtedly, the issue of payment discipline in Slovenia is a problem. However, we estimate that the proposed bill does not address this problem. In the context of direct and indirect budgetary users, the concrete data of the MFERAC system show that direct budgetary users pay accounts within 30 days with certain exceptions. These exceptions occur mainly at the end of each calendar year. The main problem is the indirect budgetary users and other public cash registers, where we do not have specific data on the specific payment deadlines at the moment. But the key question is how to ensure that direct and indirect budget users pay bills within statutory deadlines and, above all, what we have seen as a key problem is not to retain the accounts received before they are entered into the system when the payment deadline actually starts to run. And the solution we see for this problem is not in changing the legal deadline for payments, but in preventing this retention of accounts. Therefore, with effect from 1 January next year, mandatory electronic invoices will be introduced, which will be recorded from the moment the supplier puts the invoice in the UJP net system, whether or not the budgetary user will already take over them, but will be created to control that the actual retention of the accounts will not be possible and that payment discipline will also be increased by direct and indirect budgetary users, whether it is a state budget or any other public treasury. There was a lot of talk in the debate about whether or not additional funds were needed. The whole discussion was about payment of invoices, payments for supplies of goods and services, or investments made. If we look at this year's budget, we find that 600 million euros from the State budget for expenditure on goods and services and 631 million euros of total expenditure on investment expenditure, not on transfers, only on investment expenditure. Since the State budget is operating on a paid basis and not after an invoiced implementation, this means, in fact, that in the year in which the payment deadlines are reduced, additional appropriations should be provided for the payment of obligations which would otherwise fall into the following year. And these are obligations for about half a month. Assuming that there are no more detailed data at the time of the deadline, that investment expenditure and expenditure on goods and services are evenly distributed over the year and during the month, this means approximately EUR 51 million of additional spending rights to be provided for this year. These are not additional liquidity assets to be provided, these are additional spending rights to be provided in the year in which the measure is introduced or consciously decided not to be respected at the end of the year. In short, it is undeniable that, like some other anomalies in our system, attention should also be paid to preventing delays in payments by direct and indirect budgetary users, but it is estimated that measures must be taken to ensure that the actual legal deadlines are respected and that their non-compliance is also sanctioned, not that we are legally reducing the deadlines to uncontrollable limits. Finally, it is not important to note that the proposed amendment to the Public Finance Act also renders the criminal provision relating to Article 52 of the Public Finance Act unusable and would not be possible to sanction those who, contrary to the law, agree on longer payment periods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you, too. Does the proposer want a word? I give the floor to Mrs. Romani Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u100	Yes, thank you very much. However, once again, to conclude my thoughts, or once again to point out that this bill was proposed with the best intention of providing some kind of assistance to the Slovenian economy, especially to the small and medium economy in these difficult times, in the sense that the state gives up part of its liquidity at the expense of making the economy more liquid. I would point out once again that I believe, despite all of this, that there should be no more serious budget problems and should not have been. The Secretary of State said that in this case there is an increase in the rights of use, but see, on the one hand, the right of use, on the other hand, one of the control points to be carried out by the State or its officials who cannot make any payment within 15 days. And that was the State Secretary's biggest argument for why the government does not support this bill. This is why it is not supported because within 15 days the state cannot carry out all the procedures envisaged to come from, say, an account coming into the house and that it is ultimately paid. Because in the intermediate stages there are so many people who have to confirm with their signature the credibility or whatever else in this account that it takes more than 14 days. That's scary, of course. Wouldn't we rather talk about how to reduce the number of these procedures so that the account that is undoubtedly standing, which is confirmed by someone behind this, could be paid the next day? If we are unable to pay for bureaucratic procedures within 14 days, it is actually very sad for the country. This will not even be solved by electronic accounts, certainly not, although you are promising a lot of this, but the problem is that more steps are needed to confirm this document, which is to be paid later, will also be needed once we have an electronic way. Now I'm surprised by one more thing. The public administration, and also, not only a tighter public administration, should all entities act in such a way as to record all the documents they receive in the house immediately but not put them in drawers. And I wonder if this is happening because I don't believe it, or should it not be happening, that accounts are being set up for a while somewhere and they're just subsequently entered into the system because the government is still using some system, whether it's an electronic office business, or whether it's some other kind of system. This is what officials put in with delay — why? Because they want to account for this, I don't know what to call it, in an illegal or improper way, to extend the payment deadline to a supplier. It seems right to you that officials hide bills by drawers and thus extend payment deadlines. This is totally unacceptable. And that is why I think that this is the reason that this proposal is so much more justified. By essentially stating this as one of the reasons why money doesn't get to the economy as quickly as possible In fact, it's hard to believe that this is happening. [[…]] This shouldn't be happening. This shouldn't be happening. Somehow the economy, I don't know if it still believes, but at least it believed that the state is operating under some strictly regulated bureaucratic rules, where everything is prescribed, where else, the account they send, if it's sent yesterday and today comes to some address, that it's registered in the system today. But it's not. Because someone puts him in a drawer and waits 14 days for him to run a little longer and the case gets paid later. I'm wondering if that's what's going on. Each account has certain account elements. One element of the account is also the payment deadline. Isn't that right? That's right. But this payment deadline doesn't mean anything? But it's not like that. After all, the payment deadline is not linked to when someone receives an account and puts it in a drawer and then records it after a while, but the payment deadline depends on how the client and his supplier agree. And as you agreed, and as it says in the bill, when the payment is due, this deadline should be respected. If he did not respect himself or if he did not respect himself, this is a violation of legally established rules. There are already some arms in the marriage that are breaking, and you all find that. Last but not least, the government confirms this, even says they are in violation at the end of the year more than usual. This is, in fact, unacceptable, and this harmful practice should be limited in some way. This proposal, which we are proposing in the context of the reduction of the payment deadline, I still believe that a small stone could be an improvement in the liquidity of the economy and that the country will not suffer any damage, no harm at all. However, if necessary, and it is obvious that bureaucratic procedures need to be adapted so that the system can produce within 14 days this process, which will ultimately result in payment, will have to be eliminated. I am convinced that there is a minister in your government whose life mission is to prevent unnecessary bureaucratic procedures and will certainly be thrilled to be able to cooperate here. I would, of course, call once again on all my colleagues and colleagues to support this law, which is indeed a proposal for amendments to the law, which are really well-intentioned, if they want to, or if they really want to, say that they want to help the small and medium-sized economy as much as possible in these difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you, too. All the debaters you wanted to discuss got your word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I note that there is no expressed interest in the debate, so I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 24th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.50 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u102	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Vocational and Professional Education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education is appropriate for further consideration. Mrs Mateja Pučnik has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will certainly support the amendments to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, as we are also proposing these amendments. During the debate, we explained very precisely and in detail what we also want to achieve by amending this law. The main urgency is certainly in the direction of allowing for a close and rapid integration of our education system with the needs of the labour market during this time of great unemployment and the great economic crisis. We are confident that, in accordance with this law, employers will enter the apprenticeship system, which will allow them to educate and equip the young student with all the necessary skills and knowledge in the course of education, i.e. secondary vocational education, to the extent possible, so that he will be very quickly employed and that they will also be more likely to employ him. From today's debate, it has been possible to understand that in some parliamentary groups, as well as by the government, they support the reintroduction of the dual system, so it would also be a real shame and it would not be right to reject this bill today just because it comes from the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party and then wait for the government proposal that the government says it is preparing it or that it is already in public coordination. But by the way, I've reviewed this government proposal and the apprenticeship system only applies in one article with only one sentence. So unfortunately, there's no way to talk about some systemic solutions here. For the last time, I stress and call for our law to be a good foundation, a good basis for us to complete it together in a further procedure, both in cooperation with the government and with all the social partners, including the competent chambers, including the competent unions, so that the final product will be for the benefit of our young people and for the benefit of our economy. So it's for the benefit of the whole country. As I said at the outset, we will certainly support the draft law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you, too. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the decision has not been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the proposal is completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act is suitable for further consideration. We can decide. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on cable devices for the carriage of persons after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 2. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cadastrian Income Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the cadastral income law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The draft law will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly would make the bill inconsistent. Mr Andrej Cuz has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. As has already been pointed out in the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, there is no way in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group that we can understand this impetuous and governmental roller in the National Assembly, which is rushing with amendments to the law on the property transformation of the Loteria Slovenije. The fact is that this law has not changed more than in the last few years and we regret talking again about a law that can, say, improve the situation and the life of sports officials, not those that bring us results, that is, athletes. If the norm is that as an athlete you go to the Olympics, very difficult and difficult, we note that the norm, that you go as a sports official to the party and on holiday to the Olympics, is so much bigger. This is why, of course, we cannot support such a amendment proposal within the SDS Group. On the other hand, it again seems to us that it is a matter of politicising Slovenian sport, once again the Olympic Committees of Slovenia will gain the privileges to decide on the allocation of the Sports Foundation's funds. And if we can say so, these eternal sports, pardon, political officials in Slovenian sport are very happy about this. Given that this circle of people already has huge resources, it is not clear to us why we would now like to do this issue again intransparency and corruption. The rulings of the KPK and the Court of Auditors have also shown that, before the amendments to the Property Change Act adopted in the other Janša government, there were quite a few people who were caught not only with their fingers but literally with elbows in marmalade. The well-respected coalition of the government of Alenka Bratušek, while you are still alive, would understand that you are taking such decisions that are not only detrimental to Slovenia, but also to Slovenian sport, but we cannot understand in any way that you will put again those who have been condemned in the past for acts of corruption at the decision-making place of the allocation of financial resources for the operation of Slovenian sport, for which you will continue to support them. We cannot support this in any way in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We believe that, with the changes a year or two ago, we have provided some new democratic standards in sport and such standards, I think the Republic of Slovenia deserves them as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you. We're voting on the law. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 33. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is on record a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on amendments to the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 73, against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. (The vote was 74.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income taxes, with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. (The vote was 73.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under point (a), we are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial function of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election of Helena Pope to the judicial office of the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. We are moving on to the debate of the Member and I give the floor to the Magi. Ivan Vogrin, who has applied for the debate, but I find that he is not in the Chamber, so I conclude the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Helena Pope to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. (The vote was 46.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. Under point (b), we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to identify and assess the functioning of extremist groups. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation by the groups of Members. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. He's quitting. Mr Dragutin Mate will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDS Group, I would like to explain how our Group will vote on this or what its opinion is. At the end of January 2013, the National Assembly set up an Investigative Commission to assess the activities of extremist groups in Slovenia. Among other things, the Commission of Inquiry is expected to identify, under what circumstances and how extremist groups operate, the security risk in this area should be identified and where there is a need to amend legislation in this area and what shortcomings there are. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have repeatedly stressed and, of course, today, we stress that the security risk and the threat of the country, that this area is actively monitored by several bodies responsible for reporting it to the National Assembly, the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, and we can find that the level of risk in this area is still assessed at a low level in Slovenia. This has also been the case in the last report recently received by the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. I would also like to say that we have been working on this subject for a long time in the framework of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services and adopted a report last June, which suggested that more legislative changes should be made, that the government should make a proposal to set up an interdepartmental working group to prepare proposals for an amendment within six months, but that the government led by Positive Slovenia, the prime minister who also signed the request for this investigative commission, did not respond to this call from Parliament. We have not received any reports, no answers and, as far as I know, we have not been informed in Parliament of any activities that the government would have done in this area. Here you can see how this investigation group has been geared towards political action from the very beginning, not serious legal changes. Since the body of this national assembly has found that certain changes are needed, proposed to the government, it has been a long, long time, it will soon be one year, and the government has done nothing in this area. There have also been various allegations in the public that individuals participating in the demonstrations have been trained and trained in military or closed areas of the Slovenian Armed Forces and that the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services this year, on 18 February, has re-examined the facts in this regard. The meeting was attended by both the Minister of Defence and the Director of the Security and Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence, and we received clear and clear answers that the Slovenian Army had never trained individuals belonging to extremist groups, not before 2013, nor in 2012 and never before. More. At the Commission's request to study extremist groups, we have received several reports from the Owl, the Police, the OSCE, which have clearly and clearly stated in these reports that it is not detectable that there would be links between the protestors to extremist groups. Of course, this is not how they were trained. They point out, however, that it was unrelated individuals, hooligans, cheerleading groups, who randomly linked to the event itself. When we take this whole thing into consideration, we can see that in fact the Commission of Inquiry no longer has the right work, it no longer makes any real sense in which direction to go. We have clear and clear findings as to the level of threat in the country, we also have clear assumptions and the objectives we want, certain legislative changes, which were established last June and the government has done nothing in this area. Of course, we have clear police reports when it is clearly stated in her reports that the bullies at the 2012 demonstrations were not trained in the military, were not associated with extremist groups, so in our group we believe that the investigative commission has no basis for further work or are the answers that the [[…]] [[Excluding microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you. We are done with the presentation of the views of the Group and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, who is still not in the hall. The next debater is Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Three members, Mr Mate, Pukšič and Tonin and I, as alternate members of this investigative commission, stepped out of the investigative commission in protest. We have come out of the despicable scenario and manipulation prepared by Commission President Dimitrovski, together with the external pressure groups and the propaganda and mismanagement groups. Despite the knowledge of members of the opposition parties, Mrs Dimitrovski has arbitrarily drawn up the order of testimony before the commission of inquiry. From the list of individuals mentioned in an anonymity but at the meeting all protested that such order would never be drawn up. To call the first Mr. Partlich, a former colleague. He sat here like Mr. Pukšič always did. Then Mrs. Vesno Year, then philosopher Boris Viszak, journalist Sašo Lorenčič. And that's the script. On the first day to carry out these testimonies. As such, they already had press conferences in advance where they spat on opposition MPs. And if we did not prevent this scenario at the session itself, then the next day the Society of Sociologists via Vesna Year, the Society of Philosophy through Mr Veszak and the Society of Journalists through Mr Lorenčič would protest alongside the writers. It was a back-up scenario. This backdrop scenario was trying to come to a full realization. We also protested this and prevented the continuation. However, because I was first appointed as a substitute and was in the first session of this commission of inquiry and at the same time the last due to this manipulation and this insolence. Of course, I am a sleepless member of the sittings, and I have participated in an interview with Mr Partljic, which was brought before the investigative committee by Mrs Dimitrovski exclusively on the basis of the scenario. It's not true and it's a lie that I compared it to anyone in the famous Nazi regime. It's not true and it's a lie! But that was predetermined. Unfortunately, Mr Partljič participated in this scenario. He's already had his theatre cartridges at the session, I'm sorry. And as an ex- MP, I'm surprised he agreed to such scenarios. Then they are based on this, but of course I will never allow myself to take the right to protest and point out what Hitler's regime was doing during the war in Maribor and Styria. The terror that brought my father to prison in April 1941. He was locked up among the first. I will also always say that someone abused the rebels in Maribor when he sent them to the homes of the municipal councillors all week at night. And those hikes were a replica of the Nazi marches and the closure of the conscious Slovenians. And I'll probably always be able to say that. That was abused through the writings. I hear some of these writings are from families that were the most German during the war. Because I'm from a conscious Slovenian family, then and always. And, of course, I expected Mrs Dimitrovski to apologize for this manipulation. At the session, she read a pamphlet she didn't write herself. I heard who wrote it to her. A pamphlet of a pair of excellencies. And that pamphlet and all that was used to pour manure after those we discussed there. By always supporting the Ljubljana Uprisings and those who performed honestly and properly. Not those pamphlets and those that make the scenarios they sent as street abuse. And we will probably be able to talk about this further in Parliament. That's why we got out protesting. I know this race will continue against us, but here, let's say, unjustifiablely. Mr Partljič, unfortunately, subsequently participated in this race. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Mate has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I would also like to explain, on my own behalf, some matters concerning the functioning of the Commission of Inquiry. From the very beginning, this activity has been relatively unusual, and any serious suggestions for moving some things have been made in very unusual ways. I'm not gonna use any other words. Most of the meetings, apart from hearings, were closed to the public, so today we cannot discuss some of the details that I would like to discuss in an open session. However, in open meetings, we have also witnessed some or at least one of these witnesses having been misled by an investigative committee when it stated that there are at least 150 extremists in the Slovenian public, according to police data, who can react at any time at any time. The following day, the police denied this claim in a public statement. I asked Minister Pličanič myself, because this gentleman, who declared this, is a member of the Ministry of Justice and is responsible for security matters there, was also called as a member of the Ministry if they have any information on this. Of course, the Ministry replied that they did not collect data, that they did not have data and that this was its own statement. The Slovenian public was quite upset by this statement and the articles were more than a week in this regard. The Commission has done nothing. More. We voted that we would not put what we had to and should have against such a person. In fact, a witness who lies before an investigative commission is criminally responsible. The Commission has not chosen this power and effort to do so. Then, last year, we received an anonymous letter that mentioned a number of things. Three Members, members of this Commission, we have proposed by letter to the President of the Commission that we deal with an anonymous criminal complaint against certain persons and agree on how to proceed with this anonymous criminal complaint. We received a letter from the President, which led us or directly wrote that there is no need to do so and that if we want anything to do with writing a proof decision on the basis of which we will request a hearing of all these persons or persons whom we consider necessary. Of course we did. The President's excuse not to have this meeting is very strange, strange. If we are to negotiate in Parliament and if we are to take steps forward, of course it is necessary to burn down and find solutions. This was followed by all the events that followed the first hearing. Because of all these deceptions to the public, because of the manipulations that have taken place in this negotiation, especially because I have previously described that we have unequivocal and clear reports from both the Police, the Owls, the military intelligence and security services, that in Slovenia or in the demonstrations it was not for individuals or groups associated with extremist groups who would commit violence that it was a fact they found. For this reason, I believe that such an investigative commission does not have its proper role anymore, and I have decided, together with my colleagues who have been members of this commission to date and as alternate members, that I will no longer participate in such work. We have all the answers we need in this regard. The authorities responsible for the prosecution and detection of criminal offences have clearly and unequivocally stated what is going on. Also, Sova, the police, the military intelligence service regularly sends us reports on the level of threat related to extremists in Slovenia. .We have these reports, we see them and we know how low the level of risk is in Slovenia and fortunately. The Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services clearly identified, last June, what legal changes are needed. However, Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, who was one of the signatories to this commission of inquiry, did nothing with her government to amend the legislation. The government and the coalition have no serious intention of amending legislation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President of those members and the alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. Explanation of voice. In your own name? Mr Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u113	Make it a minute shorter, so in your own name. My colleagues have said before me, but I say that in the Slovenian People's Party of this proposal we will not support the further composition of the Commission. The commission of inquiry on the work of extremist groups in Slovenia was created in Positive Slovenia when it was still in opposition. As has already been said, it has all the instruments of governance in place and could implement those conclusions adopted by the Commission on Intelligence and Security Services. In this committee, I think that more than half of the members who were on the board of inquiry of extremist groups and on the Committee on Security Intelligence have all agreed unanimously – unanimously all political parties. Then we come to another commission on the same subject, and of course we're different, or the coalition is doing some political manipulation around it. Political manipulation was about anonymity and witness hearings, when the president, without talking to her, although by law her right, however, spoke to the motioners of the evidentiary decision, went from midway down, instead of going from the beginning. After the first, two, three, they would probably find that no more hearings are required. But that's how it is in life. They say everything's coming back, everything's paid. If you're working wrong, you get incorrect answers. However, the expert witness from the Ministry of Justice is not, as colleague Mate said, so nice, but she definitely argued that this is the way we have 150 extremists that we can hire. But none of the organizations, none of the letters confirmed it. We're not gonna back this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u115	This proposal alone will not be supported by the Commission's future composition. I would not trust the members appointed today, but because this commission has been so mistreated, lowly abused, that a scenario of pusting and talking about I don't know of any low-level intentions of Parliament has been made. Parliament spat in all possible ways with a pre-prepared scenario, which unfortunately also involved some of whom I would not have expected in this way. Low. Negative. And if I had confirmed this commission today, I would have humiliated these members because they would have gone back to some scenario that, unfortunately, Mrs Dimitrovski had carried out on one occasion where they would have again undermined the reputation of this Parliament. Once again, these people would be faced with possible discrimination. Just as I was in the only session where I was named, the first and last, I realized that it wasn't supposed to work. Because I have been on a number of investigative committees, including the President of the Commission of Inquiry, but this has never been the case in this House. The Commission of Inquiry has not been abused in this way, even though they are political commissions. This is not how it should work in the future, and I even call on colleagues who are proposed to this committee today to step down from it, because the entire commission of inquiry has been, now it is known, called for one party to be polished with manure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-28-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 9. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 24th meeting of the Assembly. Thank you for today and goodbye tomorrow.
