ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 71st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 and the second paragraphs of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Ivan Hršak, Mr Franc Jurša, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, Mrs Mateja Pučnik, Mr Bojan Starman, Mrs Janja Attack, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mr Matevž Frangež, Mrs Jasmina Opec and Mr Matjaž Han from 17:00 onward. I invited the candidate for Ambassador Roman Žveglić and Anžet Logar and the Director of the State Election Commission Dusan Vukek to the 4th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia at the 4th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 71st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday, 1 July 2014, with reference. I have not received any motions for withdrawal, so we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposals for an extension of the agenda. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. On 1 July, the Group of 25 Members and Members, with the first signed Jozet Tank, submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting of the assembly with the following points: firstly, the Progress Report and the findings of the investigation, and the reasons why the Investigative Commission was unable to complete the investigation, EPA 2089-VI, and secondly, the Interim Report of the Investigative Commission on the Identification of Abuses in the Slovenian Banking System, EPA 2083-VI. In accordance with the agreement of the 105th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly 3. Seven. 2014 I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 71st Extraordinary Meetings be extended by addressing those reports. You have received a proposal for an extension of the meeting on 3 July 2014. I propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together and, of course, we will vote separately on each proposal. Does he want the word "Alenka Jeraj" as a representative of the rapporteur for the report? [[He does.]] I could use a pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u2	Good-bye, everybody! In our investigative committee, we have indeed not been able to hear all the witnesses on the list, but I do appreciate that we have reached some conclusions. That is why we have also prepared a report, and I have also given a separate opinion myself, so that I propose that the report be considered at the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u3	Thank you. He wants the word "magic." Marko Pogačnik as representative of the interlocutor? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is an important report on the investigation in the Slovenian banking system. In the light of the events that have taken place, the Commission of Inquiry has drawn up an interim report. I was delighted to be president of this commission, because this commission acted very unitedly. It should be noted that the interim report of this Commission was adopted unanimously. And I would like to ask all my colleagues and colleagues in this National Assembly to reconsider before you press the button, because this is an important report, and I think it is right that both the professional and the general Slovenian public are familiar with today's debate in the National Assembly, with this report. And certainly, as President of this Commission, I cannot agree with some who say that the Slovenian Democratic Party is using this reference to an extraordinary meeting for pre-election purposes. I am sure that this report is very important and should therefore be considered today. This isn't about pre-election action. There are €6 billion in the game, which we have paid taxpayers. In view of the situation in the banking system, I do not rule out the need for a third rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia at the expense of taxpayers. So please press the agenda expansion key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u5	Thank you. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr Jožef Kavtičnik on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Since both reports are indeed an important subject, there is also a need for more time to do so. For this reason, we propose in Positive Slovenia that these topics or these two topics be addressed on July 15th and 16th, when we are not burdened with pre-election time, but we will be able to focus on the issue, the issue that we will hear from the people who participated in these investigative commissions. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia we will support the proposal to deal with this at meetings when we have more time, but today is not the time to deal with such important problems by shortening the deadlines or the time that is limited. Therefore, today we will not support this to be placed on the agenda, but we will be happy to take part in an extraordinary meeting on July 15 and 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Good-bye! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal to extend the agenda with regard to the consideration of the interim report of the Investigative Commission on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system. What has happened is, of course, incomprehensible, not only that Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers have recapitalised state banks for the third time. Worse still, we also had to recapitalise private banks because of government decisions such as they were and they were catastrophic. To consider the report after the final parliamentary elections, which will be held next Sunday, 15 or 16, in this National Assembly – it is likely that three quarters, at least those who will not be re-elected, will have little interest in doing so. Citizens and citizens also have the right to hear today, because the vast majority of the people who are in here today are running and promising again, planting flowers and pressing under the sky, so that milk and in the meantime they can hear what your attitude is about. And the opportunity they have is certainly one of the best right here, today in the National Assembly, when we talk about what was happening in the banking system. Several of the colleagues with whom we participated in this commission of inquiry agreed with my proposal that the so-called Irish system should be taken into account, where the assets must be frozen to all, both to the administrations and to the supervisory boards, also to Alenka Bratušek, obviously, but that is what some of you are afraid of. And then let the court decide. Let's give him half a year's time and get him to do his job. And let him do more than he needs to. This is what citizens and citizens deserve! Tell them whether you will stand for this today before you are elected to do what you will do after the next election, so that we will not have an early election again in three or four months. In the Slovenian People's Party we will support the proposal to extend the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. These two agenda items should already be included in the last meeting of the National Assembly on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry. Such interpretations by the President of the National Assembly and the services of the National Assembly do not lead to matters being regulated within time limits, in accordance with the rules governing the functioning of the National Assembly. But what you're suggesting is, in fact, typical of this coalition. No important matter in the National Assembly could be discussed in such a way as to realize these matters, amend legislation or adopt decisions that would regulate the operation of banking or in the field of other matters. In short, squeezing your head into the sand is typical of acting on this coalition. With regard to the banking system, we have proposed a series of solutions in this mandate as regards the Banking Act, as regards the references to meetings of the National Assembly on the question of recapitalisation of banks, both those of the private tycoon banks and the large cleaning that took place with the transfer of bad claims to the bad bank. None of this has been done in the right way; none of what we have proposed has been appropriate for this coalition. The only thing that happened was enormous debt, high taxes and a contribution of about €6-8 billion to the rehabilitation of the banking system. And you said you were only halfway there. In short, this coalition for no matter, no story related to the functioning of the banking system, shall allow it to be clarified and dealt with in the National Assembly. The only one where you are very coherent is that you gave the Government unlimited authority through the law on the implementation of the budget for the recapitalisation of the banking system. That's where you were masters. And unfortunately, to expect that with your help in the field of banking operations or in any other area important for the functioning of this country, whatever moves in a positive direction, is illustrative. This needs to be said to the Slovenian public. All those who are now emerging from this same ideological nest will do exactly the same in the future. On 16 July nothing will change – a new group of Members who will push their heads into the sand. That's all that's gonna happen, nothing else. I propose that you support the proposal to include these two points in the meeting of the National Assembly, saying that you should do what you should, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with the rules in force in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Tanko, at the College of the President of the National Assembly, we have made it very clear that neither the President of the National Assembly nor the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly can place these two points at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Indeed, a decision has been taken a long time ago to change the work programme of the National Assembly, so that we no longer meet at regular meetings, this can only be done at extraordinary meetings. Therefore, a request for an extraordinary meeting has also been tabled and we will also conduct the procedure. Other explanations, Mr Tanko, cannot be given because we have already explained this very precisely. You want one more word of this procedure, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr President, until recently, you have made a very correct decision on the agenda for the meetings of the National Assembly, and I am not saying this for the first time. As regards the conclusion of this mandate, the work does not go as you have set it for yourself during this period. The Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation in Article 23 specifically state that, in the event that the Commission of Inquiry cannot, for such or other reasons, conclude its work in the current term, its report must be considered no later than at the last meeting of the National Assembly. It doesn't say anything, either in regular or extraordinary, but in the last session. And those who interpret the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in this way are sitting right next to you. And it was not the first time that the rules of the National Assembly were interpreted in this way. I am sorry that all those who follow these non-profit statements simply take this as a rule as a rule. It will be entirely unjustifiable because the Commissions of Inquiry have prepared interim reports sufficiently early, submitted them for consideration to the National Assembly, but some of them who are concerned with these two points do not fit, which somehow do not fit in, to reopen the problems of the banking system or to buy a certain weapon, but block it in one way or another. And this has not happened for the first time to prevent a debate on these matters. I mentioned earlier that in the event of extraordinary meetings in the coalition you have already taken decisions that have erased the decisions we have proposed, you have not taken any. We have proposed legal solutions, you have not proposed any, and now that we have an interim report from the investigative commissions, it is exactly the same. Only that some points are not classified or dealt with and that the Slovenian public is not familiar with the partial findings prepared for the meeting of the National Assembly. This is the only ambition in this coalition. The transfer, the postponement, the transfer, the crushing of the head into the sand does not completely bring any solutions, only deepens the holes you have made in the mandate of the Pahor government, and three times as large in the short term of the government of Alenka Bratušek. That's all you do. Preventing the handling of these matters only [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u13	What is your procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u14	I propose that, Mr President, you deal with or interpret the rules of procedure as they are written, and it would be appropriate to read it, if you comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u15	In this regard, I also told you at the College that if you want to get a different interpretation of the Rules of Procedure than I did in college and also in writing to the two proposers of the points, there is a possibility that you may request a call from the Commission for Rules of Procedure and that it may explain it in a different way or please you. However, the fact is that we have never acted differently before and that the rules of procedure are also extremely clear on this issue, Mr Tanko. And I will indeed read to you the second paragraph of Article 58: An extraordinary meeting may be convened by the President of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government or at the conclusion of a college, where matters cannot be postponed and cannot be placed on the agenda of a regular session in due time, if the adoption of the law by emergency procedure is proposed — these two reports are not — if the decision of the National Assembly is based on a deadline laid down by the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure or the Treaties on which the European Union is founded — this condition is also not fulfilled — and if matters relating to the termination, the confirmation of the Member's mandate and so on. In short, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not allow us to include these two points in an extraordinary meeting, so we have not included them. So your procedural proposal is also impossible to follow. Anybody else want a word on behalf of the sent-out groups? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for enlargement, so please check the functioning of the voting devices. We first decide on the proposal to expand the agenda with the Progress and Conclusions Report and on the reasons why the Commission of Inquiry could not complete the investigation, EPA 2089-VI. Mr. Vogrin? Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u16	Can't you say in your own name? [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u17	So, I suggest we make a decision. We are voting on the proposal to extend the agenda. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm calling off the vote. Once again, I suggest that you check the functioning of the voting apparatus for others. I am re-voting the first proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement is not adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to expand the agenda with the Interim Report of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system, EPA 2083-VI. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement is not adopted. As no proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted, I will convene an extraordinary meeting, as requested by the Group of Members and Members, on the basis of Article 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We move to a vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 71st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Allow me only to inform you that after the end of today's session we will take one last group photo here in the hall, in this circle, so I ask you to stay in the hall then and do this action that will serve as a memorial to all those who will read the functioning of the National Assembly in this term. We're moving to four. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under point (a), we are moving on to the examination of the Appointment of Candidates, which, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, become Members for the remainder of the term of office instead of Members who have ceased their term of office. Since France Bogovic and Romani Tomc, on the date of the confirmation of the mandate of a Member or a Member of the European Parliament, have terminated the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly, the State Election Commission has forwarded the conclusions to the Assembly, suggesting that the mandate of Ambassador Franz Bogovic should be extended to Roman Žveglič and that the mandate of Ambassador Romane Tomc should be transferred to Anžet Logar. The findings of the National Election Commission were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision to it. There are no applicants for the debate at this point, so we are moving on to the vote. On the basis of Article 7 of the Law on Members, Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we vote on the following proposal for a decision: 5. 1976, to the resident of Parmova Street 40, Ljubljana, and Roman Žveglič, born 3. 4. 1964, resident of Stržiště 4, Zabukovje. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I invite Mr Anžet Logar's fellow Members and Mr Roman Žveglič to join us and meet their seats. Welcome! This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is in line with the decision on the legislative referendum on the law on amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of documentary and archivic buildings and archives, which was 8. This Regulation shall enter into On 24 June 2014, the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 47/2014 published the report of the National Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, which was held on 8 June 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to listen to this text as well. From the letter from the Supreme Court of 30. 6. In 2014 it appears that no complaints were lodged against the State Election Commission’s report within the legal time limit and the report became legally binding. Given that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 53b of the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative within 8 days of the legality of the State Election Commission report, has to announce the decision taken at the referendum, I sent you a decision on 1 July 2014 to announce the decision taken at the referendum. On the basis of Article 53b of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly declares that it was at the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, which was carried out on 8 June 2014 on the basis of the Decree of the National Assembly on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No. 29/14, adopted by the electorate as set out in the Report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 47/2014 of 24 June 2014, namely that less than one fifth of all voters and voters who had the right to vote were voted against, which, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of Slovenia, means that the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 28 January 2014 has not been rejected at the referendum. Thus, the decision taken at the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives has been announced. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and protection within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Senk Plitčanič, Minister of Justice, who conducts ongoing business.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u18	Dear Members and Members! You have before you important changes to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which have been prepared for a single purpose, and this is the reduction of such judicial proceedings. Indeed, the actual situation today within the judiciary is that it is precisely those procedures where the courts spend the most time completing them. With these normative changes, i.e. this amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, we expect to make it easier for them, that is, the judiciary, what is the basic objective, and that is to shorten such procedures. At the same time, let me say that such too slow procedures are one of the biggest problems within the judiciary to be pointed out by the European Commission. At the same time, let me say that the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance is part of the commitment adopted by the Government and the judiciary in spring with the aim of reducing the various proceedings, i.e. enforcement proceedings. At the same time, this novel, or its adoption, also means the realization of the commitment under the 2013-2014 National Reform Programme. The amendment or novelty was given wide-ranging professional debates and coordination, with virtually unanimous support on the Committee, so that I would now briefly describe the content of this novel. In the first part, the changes relate to improving the sale of real estate, the sale of real estate as one of the main means of execution, i.e. changes to which the effectiveness of real estate sales should be linked. The amendments are then aimed at allowing for a faster and more transparent enforcement process on those land debt-burdened properties. In general, a whole series of changes are aimed at accelerating enforcement procedures even when it is not a matter of real estate enforcement, i.e. when it comes to the enforcement of movable property. In particular, it would highlight the simplification and facilitation of the enforcement of maintenance claims with a view to enhancing the protection of children's rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u19	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u20	On behalf of the Justice Committee, everyone's welcome! The Justice Committee considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance at its 41st emergency meeting the day before yesterday, that was 3. 7., like a mother's working body. The Government informed the State Secretary's Committee at the Ministry of Justice, Tina Brecelj, which stressed that it was mainly about accelerating enforcement procedures, as well as improving the regulation of real estate enforcement, and that this also sought to facilitate and facilitate the enforcement of maintenance claims. Although the representative of the Council of State supported the proposal of the law, she regretted that the proposals and comments submitted by her representative, Mr Gregor Gregorin, were not more taken into account. He also regretted that their comments had not been taken into account, since they could significantly improve the proposed solutions, namely limiting the postponement of enforcement; administrative bans or restrictions; the sale of real estate as a whole; the issue of valuation of the value of real estate, where the current arrangement, which is very expensive for users, is maintained; then land debt; the abolition of the third auction when everything is not sold on the other, but only about 5% of the real estate; and the question of mandatory bidding, doubting that this mechanism would achieve the objective that the law seeks to achieve, since it could lead to an even greater extension of the procedures. Finally, the Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the National Gazette, together 23, the other members of the disintegrated coalition saying that they considered it to be coalition amendments, and also confirmed the text of all the articles of the law together and adopted them. The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed amendment of the law be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u21	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u22	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! Statistics show that the state of the judiciary in Slovenia is improving as regards the length of court proceedings from year to year. In particular, enforcement cases remain problematic, representing the highest proportion of all outstanding cases in Slovenian courts. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law containing solutions specifically aimed at accelerating and speeding up enforcement procedures. Even in the area of enforcement procedures, there are positive changes in the direction of faster procedures. To this end, a number of legislative changes have been adopted in recent years and attempts have been made to achieve greater efficiency in enforcement and insurance procedures through regulatory changes. However, the situation is still not satisfactory. In Positive Slovenia, we therefore support improvements leading to a faster handling of cases in the courts, while at the same time reminding us that the area of enforcement and insurance and the area will need to be fully examined in the future, as continuous legislative corrections do not guarantee legal certainty, which is crucial for the functioning of the rule of law. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will therefore support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u24	Your Honor! The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, prepared by the Government, presents solutions to improve the situation in the field of judicial enforcement, where the proportion of outstanding cases over 5 years of age is 94 %, which is significantly too much. Implementing procedures should therefore be accelerated in a reasonable manner, which means that a sufficient standard of legal certainty is maintained for the parties in these proceedings. The legal solutions are gravely divided into 5 content sets, the first set being general solutions to accelerate and speed up the completion of enforcement procedures. In particular, it is appropriate to point out at this point the fact that the enforcement judges are being burdened by the non-judicial acts to be carried out by the experts and that the judges will carry out all the judicial tasks in a material way. However, procedural options for deferrals and suspension of executions are also limited in cases where there is no prospect of success with such remedies. The second set of solutions relates to the improvement of the real estate enforcement regime, which introduces some options that will allow a faster sale of the debtor's real estate at a public auction, with the optimal purchase of the sale still being pursued. The novelty is also an opportunity to sell the property as a whole where the individual co-owner's share of the debtor is subject to execution, but all remaining co-owners of the property must give consent to such sale. However, due to significant changes in real estate enforcement, which are particularly beneficial to creditors, it is worth mentioning that the legal certainty of the debtor has not been overlooked on the other hand, as it must be further warned in this procedure about its legal options. The third part of the solution is related to a more transparent and faster real estate enforcement procedure, which is burdened by land debt. This is mainly the case for the removal of fundamental deficiencies in the current legislation which allows land-book debt holders to be disclosed only 5 years after the divisional claim, which is too long and thus prevents the creditor's claim from being paid. For us Social Democrats, the fourth set of solutions, which provides for simplification and facilitation of the enforcement of maintenance claims, is also very important. Maintenance is broader than previously defined as a priority or privileged claim, as legal maintenance has the advantage of paying off other creditors' receivables to the debtor. In addition, the period from one to two years in which legal maintenance is recovered from the debtor’s payment assets shall be extended. The latter, the fifth set of legal solutions, largely removes the unequal regime between the Enforcement and Insurance Act and the Tax Procedure Act relating to restrictions and exemptions from enforcement. This also changes the legal area governing the appointment, responsibility and functioning of the executives. It is primarily about increasing the responsibility of enforcement officials, laying down the conditions for their discharge or suspension, and laying down additional powers for the Ministry of Justice to exercise control over the work of executives. It is therefore an important novelty of the law, which has been preparing and coordinating in the professional circle for quite some time. We therefore hope that its entry into force will briefly show the desired effects or results, without prejudice to the law before that. The Group of the Social Democrats will support the amendment and supplement the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Mitja Meršol will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u26	A respected choir! The bill contains solutions aimed at speeding up and completing enforcement procedures more quickly. However, it should be noted that enforcement cases represent the largest proportion of pending cases in the courts. According to data from the Supreme Court of Slovenia for 2014, improvements have been made as the number of outstanding enforcement cases decreased from 194 000 in 2010 to 160 000 at the end of 2013. However, the expected time of resolution of the cases fell from 9.8 months in 2010 to 8.4 months in 2013. However, the age structure of the cases is problematic, with 20% of outstanding enforcement cases over 5 years of age and 40% over 3 years of age. Not only is the situation not satisfactory, but it's catastrophic. According to our assessment, it is also appropriate that executions represent a rakrana of Slovenian justice. Therefore, it has been high time for the Government to draw up solutions that generally follow the acceleration and speedy completion of enforcement procedures. However, solutions are highly resourceful, the fruit of a broad debate and many coordinations and have been prepared in cooperation with justice. As has already been said, the most problematic real estate executions are where the procedures are the longest. The aim of the law is therefore to accelerate enforcement and improve the sale of real estate. This also improves the effectiveness of recovery of maintenance claims. The novelty simplifies and facilitates the regulation of maintenance claims in such a way as to give an absolute advantage to the legal maintenance of payment or enforcement of the debtor's monetary claim. The initiative of the Supreme Court to amend the arrangements for the postponement of enforcement on a proposal from the creditor shall be taken into account and may be listed. One of the more important novelties of this novelty is the final regulation of the issue of land debt. The Institute, which was established in 2003, was practically out of service until 2011, as the number of land debts was between 60 and 90, and more than 2 000 500 land debts were entered after 2011. The arrangements governing the payment procedure of the landowner of the real estate debt have proved inappropriate in this respect. As you know, last year, with the adoption of the bill amending the Real Law, we abolished the Earth Debt Institute. The latter was only the first step towards preventing the abuse of creditors and preventing the defence from taking over illegally acquired assets. This solved the problem of the establishment of land debts in the future. At that time, we made it conditional on the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance and the amendment of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin to be introduced as soon as possible into the legislative process. As you know, we have also taken a second step this year, or we have adopted a new Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin, which also contains a provision that a procedure for the payment of land debt cannot be initiated if a judicial procedure for the confiscation of property under this law has already been initiated. Today, however, we are adopting solutions that try to regulate a more transparent and faster real estate enforcement procedure, which is burdened with land debt, thus regulating the prevailing situation of land debts already incurred. Under the current regime, the amount that falls on the unknown holder of the land letter must be kept as a legal deposit, which may last for up to 5 years and the remaining creditors are not paid for it and cannot even challenge the land debt because they do not know who the holder of the land letter is. The novelty regulates this by regulating the formal procedure of the holder of the land letter, which must be brought before the court within three months. If he does not do so, it will be assumed that he is the founder of the earthly letter. However, the distribution claim may later prove otherwise. At the latest, the Land Debt creditors will have to receive their claims on the distribution claim, otherwise they will not be able to recover from the sale of the property. Since the Land Debt Trustee will be disclosed, the remaining creditors will be able to press charges immediately if they consider that the Land Debt was set up with the aim of making creditors. The Alliance of Alenka Bratusek supports the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. Secretary! The law on enforcement and insurance is that law which must not squander the debtor and which must primarily be intended for the creditor to receive the payment of his claim, which is undoubtedly established. In the Civil Gazette, we will support this amendment of the law, which, on the one hand, ensures that the land debt story in this country is definitively closed. As you know, we have tabled in the Civil Code a novelty of the Law of Law because we are this institution of land debt, which has proved to be more than 95% for the instrument of concealing the assets of the tycoons and criminals.The second part of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance is to ensure that those land debts that have been entered before, the possibility that those creditors who are damaged by this fictitious land debt will actually be paid off and this legal deal will be successfully challenged. [[...]] The Law on Enforcement and Insurance also has a number of good solutions that go in the direction of unloading the court, speeding up procedures and as little costs as possible for the creditor, who is already in a subordinate position, when he has to hunt the debtor and his assets with various instruments to pay them successfully. As we say, we will support this amendment of the law in the Civil Gazette. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the situation in the field of enforcement in Slovenia is all the more than satisfactory, so we hope that the objectives of the bill will be met, which is to be reflected in the speeding up and speeding up of enforcement procedures, the improvement of real estate enforcement arrangements, the provision of more transparent and faster real estate procedures, which are burdened with land debt, and the simplification and facilitation of the enforcement of maintenance claims. A faster procedure in these proceedings is to be achieved by decommissioning the executive judges in carrying out the so-called non-judicial tasks that will then be carried out by the experts by limiting deferrals and suspending executions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the introduction of a new way of selling real estate, namely the sale of real estate as a whole and the determination of the reference price to 70 % of the real estate value, as practice shows that the most problematic real estate executions are the most problematic. The Court will therefore be given the opportunity to determine the exclusive price at the first public auction only at 70% and no more than 100 %, as statistics show that only 5 % of the public auction is successful under the current regulation. Last year in the National Assembly, we supported the amendment of the Real Law Code, which abolished the possibility of land debt. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that, as a result, it is right to try to regulate a more transparent and faster real estate enforcement procedure, which is burdened with land debt. As I have already said, in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that the enforcement process is not effective at this time. We will therefore support amendments and amendments to the law that will improve and speed up such procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The enforcement procedure is intended to force the creditor, because voluntary fulfilment of the obligation is not realized, to pay his claim or to pay his secured claim with quality legal certainty. At a time when the economic and financial situation is not the most ideal and when payment discipline is even more critical, a good regulatory regime in the field of enforcement and insurance is particularly important, as payment discipline in many cases triggers the chain of insolvency of economic operators and resulting job losses. On the basis of an analysis of the situation prepared by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, at the end of 2013 there were still 160 thousand pending cases in the field of enforcement and the expected time of the settlement was almost 8 and a half months. It is still a worrying age structure for unresolved cases, with 20% of outstanding enforcement cases over 5 years of age and 40% over 3 years of age. These figures are already quite eloquent, but if we look at the information that, according to the age structure of all cases pending in the District Courts and over 5 years of age, as many as 94% of the cases are pending, the situation is rather alarming. At the level of all courts and all court cases, 56% of outstanding enforcement cases represent 73%, i.e. in district courts. In doing so, I should point out that enforcement matters in the Central Department of the authentic instrument are not included. In spite of the constant improvement of the legal system, the executive procedures are still the rakrana of our judiciary. Progress has been made in all the years since the number of outstanding cases has been slowed down by the Supreme Court, but has been steadily decreasing and the time taken to resolve cases has also been reduced. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group note, however, that we are assessing the rule of law even after the speed of court decisions. The government resigned to the National Assembly by sending a proposal for a novel prepared by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the findings of the Supreme Court and in cooperation with the professional public. At the same time, this novelty also means the fulfilment of the commitment from the last National Reform Programme. The main solutions presented by the proposal of the novel are aimed at speeding up and speeding up enforcement procedures, improving the real estate enforcement arrangements to accelerate the process and achieve better real estate sales and a more transparent and faster real estate enforcement process, which is burdened by land debt. The bill is burdened by the fact that the executive judges add new independent tasks to their professional colleagues and, of course, they remain judges for all the tasks that represent the trial in a material sense. The bill brings a number of key improvements to the enforcement procedure towards rationalisation of court operations. The positive effects are expected for the economy, as the revised real estate enforcement regime will allow creditors to choose how to sell and to achieve higher purchases and faster sales. Debtors and other participants will be prevented from exercising their procedural rights only for the purpose of delaying the enforcement procedure. A more transparent and faster real estate enforcement process, which is burdened with land debt, will be in cases where it still exists, as we know that this institution has been abolished by the amendment of the Real Law Code. The dilemma is removed whether the restrictions laid down by law in enforcement are considered an administrative payment ban and thus the constitutional right to social security is taken into account. The proposed solutions are, according to the opinion of the DeSUS Group, sufficiently compelling reasons for giving support to amendments and additions to the law. We will, of course, contribute to the DeSUS vote to adopt the complementary text of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u34	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members! The length of the proceedings and the backlog remain a pressing problem for our judiciary. In particular, long-term enforcement procedures are problematic, and in particular real estate executions within this area. The average rescue time is not measured in months, but in years. Such a situation has been in the judiciary for many years and is, in fact, unconstitutional, because, in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we must ensure that every citizen has a fair and fair judicial decision within a reasonable time. The consequences of such a situation are a number of compensations charged to the State budget and should be borne by those who have not provided a reasonable period of time. We stress the importance and impact of the rule of law on the functioning and promotion of the economy. At the summit of the Slovenian economy, managers and business owners once again every year point out that "economy needs a judicial system that will quickly and fairly instill in payment discipline, resolve economic disputes and ensure effective prosecution of economic crime. This will provide the basic conditions for normal business operations and a return of confidence in business relations". So there is no rule of law and there will be no successful economy. The proper and appropriate adoption of legislation is the responsibility of the National Assembly and the enforcement of the legislation adopted is within the jurisdiction of the judiciary, which is independent and independent, but at the same time responsible and effective. In this respect, we expect that the judiciary alone and, in particular, the Supreme Court will do a number of things. New Slovenia – we have already highlighted in our programme the problem of enforcement procedures and wrote: "Implementation procedures need to be simplified and implemented quickly and without delay, in particular with a view to improving payment discipline in the country." Today's amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance brings some solutions in the direction of shortening and cost-effectiveness of enforcement procedures, from the transfer of certain non-judicial tasks from judges to professional co-workers and judicial assistants, the limitation of enforcement time, the extension of the possibility of securing non-Western maintenance claims from one to two years and the absolute advantage of paying maintenance claims over all other claims. Also in the area of real estate enforcement, the novelty under consideration brings important innovations, notably the reduction in the value of the real estate in the first public auction from the present 100 % to 70 % of the property value, the possibility of selling the property as a whole and the new way of selling the property by mandatory bidding. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance and at the same time express the expectation that this amendment, together with other measures on the part of the judiciary itself, will contribute to a substantial reduction in enforcement procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u35	Thank you. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister with co-worker, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today is the 14th day when we have our first political prisoner, Mr Janez Janša, in prison. The legal solutions introduced by the Amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance follow an important objective, namely to speed up enforcement procedures, to improve enforcement arrangements to speed up the procedure and to achieve better real estate realization. At the same time, it allows for more transparent and faster real estate procedures, which are burdened by land debt, with warnings that the establishment of land debt on real estate has been misused, and simplification and facilitation of the enforcement of maintenance claims. Last year we changed the Real Law Code and abolished the possibility of land debt. However, the amendment in question seeks to regulate a more transparent and faster real estate enforcement procedure, which is burdened by land debt, thus regulating the prevailing situation of land debts already incurred. The novelty simplifies and facilitates the regulation of maintenance claims in such a way as to give an absolute advantage to the legal maintenance of payment or enforcement of the debtor's monetary claim. Certainly like and welcome solutions, but too late. Better late than never, however, when it comes to decisions in reasonable time, the right to judicial protection, we must not delay and wait for solutions to remedy the backlog. In its review of the state of justice of the European Union, the European Commission has drawn our attention to the backlog in this area. The issue of delays in this area is also raised in the commitment to improve the situation in court signed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme CourtThe average age of enforcement cases in 2012 exceeded 20 months. Where is legal certainty taken into account and ensured here? In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are constantly alerting the inefficiency of the judiciary. We draw attention to questions about the responsibilities of judges, but unfortunately we are over-heard. Unfortunately, only the legislator is responsible for the situation in Slovenia, and the judiciary itself commands respect and respect, which is of course worrying. The reputation of the judiciary can be gained only by a proper and fair trial of the price they pay elsewhere and by a reasonable trial. It is also worth noting that in recent years the European Court of Human Rights has again condemned Slovenia for its lags and for failing to ensure the constitutional and Conventional right to a trial within a reasonable time. In order to ensure the right of trial within a reasonable period of time, in connection with the provision of a fair trial in the context of criminal proceedings, we have proposed the duration of the trial for a maximum period of six months at the first stage, a maximum of three months at the second stage and a maximum of three months at the Supreme Court of Justice in the case of exceptional remedies. The duration of the proceedings from the beginning to the jurisdiction, including exceptional legal remedies, could thus take up to a maximum of 12 months. We regret, however, that the fallen coalition of this novel does not wish to place on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly, despite the fulfilment of all the formal conditions. Regardless of all the above, we will support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group the solutions brought by the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as so far as we have, we will draw attention to the irregularities in the judiciary and commend the positive movements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u37	Thank you. Let me just explain once again that the claims that the law you mentioned did not wish to be included do not hold. It cannot be classified until the end of the law which was previously introduced into the procedure by the Government. I note that this has ended with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is to say the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the re-establishment of agricultural communities and the return of their assets and rights within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 7 Members and Members, first signed by Richard Branislje. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Jakob President, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment today considered the proposal for a law at its 45th emergency meeting as its parent working body. In accordance with Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was also sent to the local communities. By the end of the deadline, that's until yesterday, 3. 7. None of the local communities forwarded an opinion to the National Assembly. In the debate, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, in an additional explanation of the written opinion, stressed that their comments were mostly of a principled nature and again pointed out that the proposed novelty brought solutions which interfere with other system-wide arrangements without giving real reasons, and the proposed solutions, if adopted, could lead to internal inconsistencies of laws. It also drew attention to a request to respect the constitutional principles of trust in law, legal certainty and equality before the law, which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, are not fully followed by the proposed amendment. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Cveto Zupančič, presented the opinion of the Commission, which does not support the bill because it regulates only a simplified option to sell the assets of agrarian communities, while their primary interest is to manage and manage common assets. He also presented the opinion of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia, which does not support the bill, as the following three issues are currently much more pressing, which make it difficult for agricultural communities to operate: for the first time, to carry out activities such as milk production in common pastures, for the second time, the succession procedures are critical, and for the third time, issues related to the implementation of the measures of the common agricultural policy, which causes major problems on the ground. This is an extremely important issue which the proposed amendment does not address. In view of the Government's rejection of the proposal for a law and the content of the legislative and legal service, I, as Chairman of the Committee, had proposed to the Committee, before considering the articles of the draft law in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that it should discuss and decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In the debate on this proposal, the majority of the members of the committee who expressed their support for the proposed decision considered it unacceptable that a week before the national elections would be passed so important a law that even interferes with other laws, such as tax. The proposed solution appears to be small at first sight, but its possible adoption would constitute a significant transformation, since, assuming that all members of the agrarian community would transfer their assets to a legal entity, they would no longer operate as an agrarian community, but rather as a share company. This would also open the way for tycunization, since those who had a greater share in these companies could sell land. It would also be unacceptable for the law in force governing the establishment of agrarian communities to interfere with the amendment by which these communities would be abolished. In this regard, fear is expressed that even the purpose of the proposed supplement may be to facilitate the sale of agrarian assets or to eliminate them in a short period of time. It is further noted that the law in force has been amended several times in accordance with the comments and needs of the agrarian communities. In particular, it is pointed out that most of the territory of the agrarian community is in border areas. From the past, problems relating to the insurance of private housing facilities in this territory are known and how many have already been sold for various purposes. Now, this novel would open up wide opportunities for this common space to be made available for some entirely private purposes, without knowing who, because it could be sold to anyone. Therefore, caution is needed as it is a property that needs to be preserved, not a consideration of the forms that would in fact allow for the decommissioning of members of agrarian communities. Despite the criticism expressed about the proposed contents of the amendment, the members of the Committee pointed out that, in the new mandate, a system law should be adopted as a matter of priority, which will comprehensively regulate this extremely sensitive area, which is intertwined with many legal systems issues, which is another reason why content that is regulated by the proposal for a law cannot be regulated in a partial and non-systemic manner, as new complex situations in this area would lead to. However, the representative of the applicant objected to the above proposal and stressed that the proposed simplification in the transformation of agrarian communities into a legal person, although it is possible already after the law in force, constitutes an important step towards simplifying the procedures. The proposed solution also solves life situations in these areas. After the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision by 7 votes in favour and 4 against: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u39	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed draft law, Richard Branisl, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We're not hiding the disappointment that this novel didn't get any support. In fact, 660 agrarian communities are around the Republic of Slovenia, 70,000 hectares of land – providing exceptional opportunities for progress, rural recovery. With this amendment of the law, we wanted to do just that – to give owners the opportunity to give agrarian communities the opportunity to take care of their futures, even in a way that the farming community could be set up in some other way. It was obvious that this was possible now. I don't think that's possible now, because if that were possible, then we'd have some examples of good practice when these things work, but they don't work. The next important thing in this matter is that this law was not written five minutes before noon or last week, but it was written a year and a half ago, after careful consideration and cooperation of the profession. All those who spoke about the fact that you are aware of the problems of agrarian communities and that a system law is needed, in 20 years of the existence of these agrarian communities, you have not been able to form a single article that would at least partially facilitate the operation of agrarian communities. And this concern of all of us, state authorities and so on, what will happen to this property of the agrarian community, is actually superfluous. It is the property of concrete owners, concrete owners who know what to do with their property, and it is a basic guarantee that they will do so wisely and wisely in the future. This is not state property, these are not the state-owned companies we set up, even in addition to all those we already have and import. This is the property of specific people in the countryside, who also deserve to have the opportunity to manage this property in a different way from that afforded by practice or current legislation. And it's not true when you say we proposed tax reliefs. It's not tax relief, it's tax neutralisation. People who go into entrepreneurship can't be further punished for hoping to go into some new form of business. And those who choose to do so, believe me, 100, 200 people, members of the agrarian community, know how they can trust each other, know who they're going to give to the governing body, and know the dangers they're facing. Just to say that they will steal everything now, that they will tycunize and so on, is unfair, unfair and underestimating to people living in the countryside who want a better life, who want a better job, they want economic progress. And it is true that they also want to sell some plot that is already usurped, because this moment is not possible in practice. That's what they want. And we weren't able to do that either. In the left coalition, we agreed that this solution was not disputed. It was not disputed when we also included it in a proposal for a law that might eventually come into the parliamentary bench. The right policy option should not have any problems with this. All those who talk about the start-up of the economy and so on should not be in trouble, but we have them. We may have problems because the wrong person, the wrong party, has suggested this, but the people in the countryside, once again, deserve the opportunity and we will have to give it to them as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u41	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Ljubica Jelusic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u42	Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State, Mag. Tanja Strniša with colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, as we have already said on the Committee on Agriculture, we are opposed to a law which, a week before the elections, would go very decisively into the centuries of created and protected human rights in the countryside, these are the rights to common property. We know that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, together with the association of agrarian communities, has been preparing a system law for at least one year and has coordinated it in a way that is not customary for us to produce legislation, namely that the law was literally from below. First of all, various initiatives, ideas and conclusions have emerged as to why the existing law on the re-establishment of agrarian communities on some things is not consistent enough or has certain areas of irregularity. The representatives of the agrarian communities also said all their problems that should be addressed in the system law, and on this basis the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has prepared a starting point for the drafting of a new law. All of us who are members of the agrarian communities have become acquainted with these starting points, discussed them and identified which we agree on where compromise can be reached and where there are still difficulties in drafting such a law. Then the law was prepared and also supported in the political procedure. Unfortunately, there have been disagreements within the framework of the Association of Agrarian Communities regarding the content of this law and the law has been put into practice. One of the articles from this law was taken from the final chapters on the cessation of agrarian communities. This article is now, in essence, treated as a special law and as a matter of transforming agrarian communities into an economic society, which, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe does not belong to a law that speaks of the re-establishment of agrarian communities. We must recall that in 1994 the then State Assembly, after decades, was essentially able to restore agrarian communities and restore some of the situation that occurred in the former country, the socialist Yugoslavia, which nationalised the property of agrarian communities. It was not until 1994 that it was returned to a certain proportion of owners or members of agrarian communities, unfortunately not all of them, and it was either a municipality or an agricultural land fund that entered their place as owner. We also think that a week before the elections after a year of coordination on this system law would be a very bad message if today we discuss and adopt a law that speaks only of the end of agrarian communities without doing anything to regulate the problem that remains in all those agrarian communities that will continue to work. It is said that if we are already discussing the problem of agrarian communities, then we are obliged to deal with this issue in its entirety and not only with one group, a larger group of people in certain agrarian communities, who would like to get rid of this property and replace it with an economic society. I also point out that it should be very clear to members of agrarian communities that the way of management in agrarian communities changes significantly after transformation into an economic society. They are now acting unanimously on various measures and activities, and it is likely that those with larger shares or could accumulate ownership would decide on the basis of the size of their share, and that they would most likely be able to obtain more than 51 % of the ownership of the former agrarian community, i.e. the new economy, and would essentially decide on ownership or ownership of the former agrarian community. The International Comparative Study, which discusses agricultural communities in Italy, Austria and Germany, also speaks of legal persons, but their assets are never shared and their assets are not used for personal, private purposes, but always for public, common interests. That's why we think that we are guardians of the property of our ancestors, that we owe this property. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] but not to discuss how we will privatize this property and essentially prevent future generations from continuing to preserve this common property of our ancestors. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Mr Mitja Meršol will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u44	Dear Mr President, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with co-workers and co-workers, the esteemed assembly! We would like to point out that the proposed text of the bill has been harmonised by the former coalition partners since the beginning of this year. We agreed that the new text of the proposal for the Agrarian Community Act, prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, would be introduced. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment put the law into public debate in February. However, it did not later prepare or submit to the Government for acceptance before the resignation. Since the proposal for a law does not belong to the current business, the National Gazette has decided to put the draft law into the legislative procedure itself. The Alliance of Alenka Bratusek does not object to the solution proposed. The current law does not have provisions on the management and disposal of members of agrarian communities. The management of property in co-ownership or joint property is governed by the Real Law. However, in accordance with the law, all co-owners or joint owners need to agree on transactions that go beyond regular management, which is not feasible in practice. With such a large number of co-owners, it is virtually impossible to obtain the consent of all and thus satisfy the code. An additional problem is the inability to reach a large number of co-owners. This causes the property to become "dead" because it cannot be handled or managed properly. In 2011, the new law legislated an exception to the real law. Thus, it is possible to take a decision with the agreement of more than three quarters of the members of the agrarian communities in relation to their co-ownership shares on transactions that go beyond regular management and are in the public interest, in order to ensure better management of agricultural land and forests. In our opinion, this novelty has only partially solved the above-mentioned problem, since in practice it still poses a major obstacle to obtaining such a large number of Members' consents for individual transactions. In addition, we note that the selection of transactions does not satisfy the actual needs for land management. However, several initiatives have already been put in place to amend the legislation governing agrarian communities. In the initiatives, the problem of managing and managing the assets of members of agrarian communities, which are co-owned or jointly owned by a larger number of persons, was most highlighted. There are examples of agrarian communities where there are more than 500 co-owners. As has already been said, we did not object to the proposed amendment in the parliamentary group, but at the meeting of the parent working body we expressed disagreement with the provisions of paragraph 5 of the new Article, paragraph 11a and, with the addition, proposed deleting that provision. At the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we have pointed out that the provision of the fifth paragraph of the new Article 11a of the proposal affects the tax area. In our opinion, however, tax matters should be regulated in tax legislation. In addition, the proposed solution would put the members of agrarian communities in a totally unequal, more favourable position towards other persons, owners of ownership shares in other legal persons, which is not acceptable. However, since the proposal for a law has not received sufficient scope for further consideration, there has not been a vote on our amendment at all. Regardless of our previously explained position that we agree with most of the solutions proposed, we will abstain from voting at the meeting, as it has already been clear at the meeting of the home labour body that the law does not have sufficient support for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u46	Good day again. We have an industrial zone without a cell phone signal. One of the bidders would like to operate a base station and cover the industrial zone with this signal. The land is owned by an agrarian community. We need building rights to build a base station. In order to enter the building rights, we need an entry into the land book. And we get 100, 200 co-owners, which turns out to be an impossible mission. The point is, base stations can't be built and a phone signal can't be built at industrial cost because of this. Another case. The agrarian community rents pastures. He gets the rent and all 200 members of the agrarian community have to make a tax return by 15 January each year, 200 tax returns. And the tax administration has to issue 200 tax decisions – for half a euro, for the euro, for ten cents. Third thing. One company rents a sand dig, a lease with an agrarian community. It pays the rent that this company has to split into 200 people, the accounting of this company takes 200 tax returns for 200 members, the Tax Administration has to issue 200 tax decisions and 200 cases have to be settled. We have a walled zone and the agrarian community would like to sell it. That's not possible. 200 members. But to these 200 members each year, the municipality or tax administration sends 200 bills for compensation for the use of the building’s land. Anyone who wants to go for any sale, any kind of registration of building rights and so on, is actually doomed to collapse because every contract, every square meter of notary service is 3,000 euros or more already in progress. During the process, people die because we have older owners and so on. This procedure, even if anyone wanted to start it, would be interrupted all the time, always waiting for some kind of legacy procedure, which is actually some never ending story, the nightmare of agrarian communities. When someone proposes a good solution, which is indeed in one article, but usually good solutions are in one article, there is no need for solutions in ten articles or in one huge article, then this is a problem. Then we reject it and say that it has to be arranged differently. By not telling anyone how "different" is to be handled. And another truth. When a civil sphere asks the state to help it settle it, it usually comes down to the state to do so in its own way. I fear that the next steps towards agrarian communities will be park arrangements, new nationalisation and restrictions on what agrarian communities can do now. And there's one more thing. We're talking about someone buying it anyway. It usually sells what doesn't work. And we don't want things to work. And that's just gonna be an easy prey for all sorts of shoppers. Once again, I would like to say that no one will take the agricultural land and forests anywhere. And no other land either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u48	Once again, thank you very much for your word and once again a nice greeting to all present. I have already said at the Committee's meeting the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, that the proposed amendment to the law, which provides for the possibility of a voluntary consensual transformation of the agrarian community into a legal person, does not yet govern most of the problems concerning the agrarian communities that people or members face. Perhaps even the purpose of the proposed solution is only to facilitate the disposal of agrarian property, which is not the basic purpose of the agrarian community at all, or that the agrarian community would not be in the short term at all. As it is said, this proposal to supplement the law does not address the most pressing issues faced by agrarian communities and must therefore be addressed in the next period. This is also why in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we ask why the so-called system law has not yet been put into consideration, as it has been waiting for a long time, and according to information from the Ministry, it is almost fully harmonised. Of course, the reason for this is to carry out ongoing operations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or at this point the inability to rule this proposal of comprehensive changes or changes that are harmonised, to put them into Parliamentary procedure if they are truly so far coordinated. That is why we supported the proposal for a decision adopted by the Committee at the end of the meeting in the Group of Members. The proposed solution is therefore at first glance small, but its adoption represents a significant turnaround or significant innovation in the field of agrarian communities. As it is said, I repeat, which is why we have supported the proposal for a decision adopted by the Committee. And another thing, some others have also pointed out that if we thought that such a complementary as proposed was adopted, it would be particularly dangerous for a border area where we have tried for two decades somehow to counter this area falling, if I say so, into the hands of foreigners. This is the end of the day to secure Slovenia at these external borders of ours. And there's something else I'd like to point out. If these proposals were to deal with the question of the transfer of management to a legal person, this would certainly be acceptable to some extent, but not the possession of the property of the so-called legal person to which the property would be transferred by the agrarian community. This is certainly unacceptable in our view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! In the DeSUS Group, we will not support the bill. We agree with the Government's view that the proposal for a law regulating the transformation of existing agrarian communities into legal persons and, consequently, the cessation of such rights is not, from a systemic point of view, subject to the Act on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities and the Return of Their Assets and Rights, since the latter, in principle, only governs the establishment of agrarian communities and the return of property to members, natural or legal persons. We also assess that without the proposed amendment of the law, with the consent of all co-owners or joint owners, it is possible to establish a legal entity and transfer to it the property which is co-owned or jointly owned by the natural persons of members of the agrarian community. For each owner or joint owner can freely dispose of his or her property, with his or her share. It's property freedom. And in the event that all co-owners or joint owners agree with the transfer of assets, the assets may be transferred to a legal entity which manages and disposes of the assets in accordance with the rules applicable to legal persons. Also in the work on the derogation in the field of tax legislation provided for in the proposal for a law, which is the fifth paragraph of the new Article 11a, we agree with the Government's view that such a solution is totally inappropriate, since it has an unsystematic impact on the tax area. Tax matters must be regulated in tax legislation. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also assesses that the proposal deviates from the legal system in many respects, for which neither in the introduction nor in the explanatory statement are the reasons given. The solutions proposed shall include in the legal regulation of the confusion, indefinition and shortcomings provided by Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we expected the government to take a timely approach to comprehensive regulation of the problem of agricultural communities, which unfortunately we have not seen under this government. The fact is that just seeking the consent of all or most of the members of agrarian communities makes it impossible for many infrastructure investments to be made in the field of tourism, agriculture, utilities, economies, etc. We hope that the new government will be able to solve this problem in time before any important development project falls into the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Ficko will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u52	Good day to you all! The proposal tabled by the National Gazette is once again one of those proposals, which we all believe is addressing a very important and pressing issue and is again being addressed in an entirely inadequate manner. Agrarian communities in the Republic of Slovenia face major problems and obstacles that make it difficult for them and, in large cases, make it impossible to manage their property. The barriers relate primarily to obtaining the consent of all co-owners of the agrarian community for transactions that exceed the regular management. The 2011 amendment partially eased these problems and provided for the adoption of decisions only with the consent of more than three quarters of the members of the agrarian communities, according to their co-ownership shares. The Novela has only partially solved the problem, as it still poses a major obstacle in the practice of obtaining such a large number of Members' consents for individual transactions. The proposal before us, however, proposes a complement whereby an agrarian community can transform into a legal person and thus have legal and commercial capacity — what they can do in accordance with legislation today. Moreover, derogations are proposed in the field of taxes, which in our view is totally inappropriate. At the same time, complementing the solution proposal proposes only one part of the problem of agrarian communities. In the government opinion on the draft law, we read about the very good solutions that the already prepared system novels of the Ministry of Agriculture are expected to bring. Minister Židan has already sent the paper to the public in December 2013, but to date it is not to be harmonised due to the large number of stakeholders involved in the coordination process. Thus, for six months, the minister has been in a failure to coordinate, but of course, the problems remain. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will not support the proposal of the law because it is not suitable for consideration, because it does not solve the matter systematically, interferes with tax legislation, no position of local communities, the Legislative and Legal Service has not given a positive opinion, it is also rejected by the State Council and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Of course, the proposaler had a good purpose, which we do not reject or even support, of course, in a systematic manner. We are, of course, criticising the Ministry of Agriculture, which within a year of the application for the systematic regulation of the Agrarian Community Act in the National Assembly failed or failed to implement the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u53	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The decision on the proposal for a decision will take place in 30 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby interrupt this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 71st extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2 p.m. and 15 minutes. Thank you and good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u54	We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Act on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities and the return of their assets and rights under reduced procedures. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on the re-establishment of agrarian communities and the return of their assets and rights is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 8. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. Just a moment, because I think we've gone one way too fast. I apologize for the small consultation that was carried out in this part. I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 4th item of the agenda, which is to deal with the Mandate-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the hearing of the Notice of the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department, concerning the permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the MP of mag. Ivana Vogrin The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Maribor District Court, Investigation Section, No. IKPR 22753/2014 of 20. 6. 2014 concerning the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against the Member of the Magi. Ivan Vogrin, because of the suspicion of a criminal offence committed by a businessman under Article 228(1) of the Penal Code, does not grant immunity to a Magi Member. And allow Ivan Vogrin to conduct a criminal procedure. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing an information officer. By letter dated 16 June 2014, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that she appoint Mrs Mojco Prelesnik as an information officer. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u55	Dear Members and Members, President of the National Assembly, good afternoon! On 16 July, the Information Commissioners, Natasha Pirc Musar, shall expire her five-year term of office, so that she cannot be reappointed to this function. The President of the Republic, when proposing an IT candidate, is not bound by any procedure or invitation to tender, but in this case he has also decided to publish the invitation to tender. In his assessment, he also took into account the opinions on suitable experts in the first consultation of the parliamentary groups of the National Assembly. The President of the Republic took two key circumstances into account in his election. First and foremost, the appropriate professional competence of the candidate and secondly, the expected support in the National Assembly. In the first stage, he assessed that the professional criterion for the performance of this function was met by the four candidates and candidates, the candidates who had come to you, the honourable Members and Members, if you so expressed your interest and wish. In particular, Breda Bunič, University graduate lawyer, Marjeta Cotman, also university graduate lawyer, notary, Mojca Prelešnik university graduate lawyer, secretary general of the National Assembly, and mag. Andrej Tomšič, University Graduate Economist, Deputy Information Commissioner. Following presentations before MEPs and Members and after the opinions of individual parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic estimated that Mrs Mojca Prelesnik, among the candidates and candidates mentioned, also enjoyed the majority support of Members and Members of the National Assembly. Therefore, the National Assembly proposes that Mrs Mojco Prelešnik be appointed as an information officer. Ms Mojca Prelešnik is a university-graduate lawyer with a judicial examination and meets all the legal conditions for the performance of that function. The candidate has demonstrated a high level of expertise on her career in both legal areas of the function for which she is running: access to information of a public nature and the protection of personal data. As Deputy Information Commissioner, author of written contributions and lecturer to a number of audiences from different professional circles in the public and private sectors, she also raised awareness with lectures of the importance of these rights for people and individuals. Prior to her employment in the Office of the Information Officer, she actively participated in the process of producing and preparing the current proposal for a law on access to information of a public nature. As a consultant at the Ministry of Information Society, i.e. the competent department of public access to information, she worked with her professional work to find solutions to the draft law, which was already known as a good and modern law in 2003. The law was then immediately introduced directly into practice as it was appointed as an official for access to information of a public nature at the Ministry. Since statistically the most frequent exception from free access to information of a public nature was personal data, this represented a specific professional challenge for the candidate. This was also recognised by the Information Commissioner and was therefore appointed as a Deputy for this area in 2005. She served as Deputy Information Officer until 2008. The proposed candidate also used her expertise and upgraded her expertise in the National Assembly, where she was in 2008, for the first time, and then in 2012, for the second time, appointed Secretary General of the National Assembly. Ms Mojca Prelesnik is the author of several professional articles and co-author of books on access to information of a public nature, protection of privacy and personal data and lecturers at many educations, trainings and professional conferences and meetings. The President of the Republic estimates that Mrs Prelešnik, with her expertise and experience, fulfils the professional criteria for carrying out this important function. The appointment of an information officer before the end of the term of office will ensure that this important, independent and independent State authority is able to carry out its function without delay. Otherwise, the exercise of the powers of the information officer, particularly in the field of infringements of access rights and the use of information of a public nature, will be significantly hampered. Allow me, at the end of the day, to express my special thanks to the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor for all his outstanding creative and successful cooperation. It is this creative cooperation in this mandate that, despite the differing opinions, has enabled some of the key state functions to work very well despite the difficult political situation, which we particularly thank you for. Even in this last proposal, we are confident and we hope that this will be the case. Thus, President Borut Pahor proposes to the National Assembly another final proposal – the appointment of Mrs Mojca Prelešnik as an information officer. Thank you very much. Goodbye!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u56	Thank you, too. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! We do not support the proposal of the President of the Republic in the Slovenian Democratic Party and will also give a number of reasons why we do not support it. First of all, we do not support it because in this case it is again a reward for someone who, in his career, has shown as one of the most important advantages by acting against representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, against the President, against the party, against other political representatives. From this point of view, we view this proposal as a reward for working against the Slovenian Democratic Party. In an interview in November 2012, the Secretary-General of the Mojca National Assembly, Prelešnik, for the newspaper Delo, cited as one of her important qualities and as one of the important achievements, exactly what I have just said. Unfortunately, I must also point out that this proposal by Borut Pahor, when it rewards the personnel who have acted against the Slovenian Democratic Party, is not so far alone. He has already carried out two proposals within the mandate of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. One such proposal is to appoint Mr Rob as a member of the European Investment Bank after the hearing affair in the Gulf of Piran, probably as a reward for discrediting our President and the then Prime Minister. The second such staff proposal by the government, led by Mr Borut Pahor, is the proposal to appoint Mr Cwickl to the European Court of Auditors. Two outstandingly paid European functions as a reward for working against the Slovenian Democratic Party. Another time. It should also be noted that many people have doubts about their expertise. Even the current information officer, Natasha Pirc Musar, wrote that someone who is elected and not the best of knowledge will now be chosen. Even someone who is employed in the Office of the Information Commissioner is aware of the fact that this is a proposal that carries mainly political support, not substantive knowledge and so on. We are in a situation where those who act against those who are capable are rewarded, and this proposal by the current President of the Republic means, in fact, negative human resources selection in this area. However, for negative staff selection, we receive every day an invoice issued in the form of increased taxes or in the form of a new debt. Ms Prelešnik was recently appointed also to the selection committee for the selection of two members of the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption. After this fiasco, you have chosen a second suitable candidate within the quota of the National Assembly. How and what you've chosen, you probably see. As a reward for successful work in completing the Commission's Anti-Corruption Chamber, it is now likely that the lady who participated on behalf of the National Assembly will be appointed as an Information Commissioner. In short, there is some closed circle in rotations to the most important so-called independent functions in countries. These are people who simply carry with them strong political opposition to the policies and policies of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Better shots were ignored. I would like to point out another example that took place in the National Assembly. You all remember the case of Špiletic, a former Member of Parliament, also a member of the SDK, who serves as a member of the National Assembly. The recommendation he made that he should not be burdened by the nature of the disease, and this recommendation was made by his doctor because he should not have had any additional physical efforts, and this person was put on the floor by the Secretary-General more than a reward for punishing him in this way. In no way will we support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it does not meet both substantive, ethical, and moral, and professional, and no other conditions, since the principle of equal treatment will be gravely violated, the principle of appropriateness in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u59	In the Group of Ambassadors, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek will support the proposal presented and submitted by the President of the State. Not only the reasons for her qualifications, but also the experience that Mrs Prelesnikova, as a candidate, has already served as a deputy information officer, can and can perform this function. I believe that this proposal will also be followed by the majority in the National Assembly today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u60	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u61	Thank you for the floor, honourable President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At first, in the DeSUS Group, we did not intend to express our views on the candidate for the Information Commissioner at the meeting of the National Assembly. Our position is known to the President of the Republic of Slovenia, to all the candidates proposed and to all of you in this Chamber and finally to the public. With regard to support, the proposed candidate for Information Commissioner Mojci Prelešnik, the current secretary-general of the State Assembly in the DeSUS Group, is not united. Notwithstanding this shared position, the DeSUS Group is united in assessing the appropriateness and regularity of the particular procedure itself. This is also why we have announced our position on this point. However, I must also say that some Members of the DeSUS Group have expressed their criticism of the candidacy of candidate Prelesnikov, and this must be mentioned. Criticism does not refer to the conduct of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, whose conduct in this process was not followed by established practice. The proposed candidate has subsequently arrived as part of the nominations for an information officer. The President of the Republic of Slovenia also did not hold a subsequent informal discussion on the suitability of the candidate with all the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Thus, the proposal we have was not previously harmonised. Let me mention here that the DeSUS Group has always followed the proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of these discussions and on the basis of this majority coordination. This time this part of the informal procedure was exempted. But the concern is the opposition's conduct. I do not think that any person has ever received such inappropriate words, delaying the procedure and discrediting them, as expressed by them at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Not that the candidate has always been a target critic. There were so many other completely unrelated topics involved in the debate, such as the case of Patria, Janez Janša, the judiciary and so on, that we all had the feeling that it was not a debate on the appropriateness of the candidate for the information officer, but merely to defend their president and their free campaign for election. Such behaviour, according to the joint assessment of the DeSUS Group, has exceeded all the good taste limits and we can only hope that something like this will never happen again. I'm afraid we can't get past this criticism in the Dessus Group. Let me finish. Ms Mojca Prelešnik, candidate for the Information Commissioner, is, according to our majority assessment, appropriate. However, we are not all Members of the DeSUS Group of Members of the same opinion, so we will vote each in our own conscience on this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u62	Thank you, too. I hereby conclude by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Once again, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has her own word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I expected more discussions to be under this item, so I joined the debate myself. But if I'm left alone, I'll still tell you my personal position. My personal position is positive and I will be happy to support Mrs Mojco Prelešnik's candidate for information. Let me say that the DeSUS Group has had the opportunity to meet all the candidates, so let me thank you all for your presentations and views on the functioning of this body in the future. I myself have assessed the proposed candidate, Mrs Mojco Prelešnik, as appropriate. From her résumé, she's an expert in this field. In the final stage, she came to us from an information officer. So the candidate has years of work experience in this area. Its expertise is also highlighted by a collection of articles on the subject of the work area of that body and several expert expertises it has drawn up. So, according to my expert opinion, a candidate cannot be challenged. The candidate is currently sitting with the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Thus, we had the opportunity of Members and Members of the National Assembly to get to know and understand the way in which it works and leads. I consider her work in this house as a good thing not to say very well. It is not easy to lead such a demanding and responsible body as the National Assembly, and it is entirely human for some to like these same decisions, while others, of course, do not. They even get in the way sometimes. As far as I had the opportunity to meet her myself, I know that her decisions were based on the principle of equal, without exception, and on legal grounds. That's the most important thing. These are the main reasons why, of course, I will support Mrs Mojco Prelešnik, the applicant for the Information Commissioner, today. Mrs. Mojca, I sincerely hope that you will receive majority support. I wish you good work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u64	Thank you, too. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the word, but prepare yourself for the mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. I do not support Mrs Prelesnikov because I do not think she will be a good, fair and objective information officer. I mean this because of my own experience, and I will tell you one experience with Mrs Prelešnik in the National Assembly, or two, too. When the documents on the tax offences of Juret Jankovic, the son of Zoran Jankovic, who is running for office today with a password Fairly, came to the public, the information officer brought proceedings against me, suspected that I had forwarded these documents to the public. Before me, there were some people in the main office or office of the National Assembly with that document. Mrs. Prelešnikovo, an information officer who was once a co-worker of hers – Mrs. Prelešnikova – asked whether she estimated that there had been abuses in her services or in the services of the National Assembly, Mrs. Prelešnikova ensured that her services had been carried out as necessary, although at least 6 people had a document before me. In order for me to feel that Mrs Prelešnik had to be excluded from the procedure at the time or there had been a conflict of interest, but that did not happen. She said that her services or the services of the National Assembly had done everything right and that everything was fine on their side. The information officer, her former co-worker, of course, believed her, not me, although there was no evidence that the document came from my safe. They have not proved that this document is the document which was published in public, my copy of this document, but I have been punished, I think, for three reasons, 840 euros. First, because I haven't changed the number on the safe, secondly, because I don't lock the doors of the office in the National Assembly, I don't know who they are, but even if they were, every muscle probably has a key, and because I didn't take care of this document any further. This is also the work of Mrs Prelešnik and her services, not my work, I am not the secretary of the commission of inquiry, so that I will then deliver documents to the members of the Commission after the national assembly. But I was punished for it. Mrs. Prelešnik was not punished. And a second experience with Mrs. Leicester. When I was running the Krapan Commission again in this last term, Mrs Prelešnikova did not take into account my proposal, with whom I would like to participate, who I want to work with as an expert member of the committee, but she decided in an authoritarian manner. Indeed, she is the supervisor of her services, which she teaches them, but if it were her intention to enable Members to do our work well, and as we think we can best, we should help her, so she is here at work. And just two more words about what Mrs Kotnik Poropat said. So many critics, lies, mudslides, such as Janez Janš's share, were certainly not received by Mrs Prelesnikov. And what he had to listen to, or we had to listen. And Mrs Prelesnikova is also one of those who has worked hard to make the work of the Slovenian Democratic Party more difficult both in Parliament and in the case that I said. I therefore estimate that it will not work objectively and honestly because I estimate that it has not done so in the National Assembly, and that I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u66	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, prepare Mrs. Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote in favour of the election of Mrs. Prelešnik. I'll explain why. If we follow Einstein's thinking that the only source of knowledge is experience, and Mrs. Prelešnik has an excellent school as to how not to work. And if she has a great school, how she can't work, I believe that's a good experience, that she'll work differently than the National Assembly. See, the National Assembly has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia several times. It's a good experience, that's not how it's done. The National Assembly has adopted several laws instructing its citizens to sue the country and thus the National Assembly for violating their rights. The National Assembly has taken away my immunity ten times, to which I did not refer, for practically the same thing. That's a lot of crazy. I think that citizens will slowly take immunity from all politicians, but in this case the immunity they rely on. Down in the small hall of the National Assembly, the All-Slovenian meeting of the Slovenes is held from place to place in the world. People came from Canada, America, Australia, not to mention. The All-Slovenian meeting was announced at least three months earlier. On the same day, we convened an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and pushed them into a small hall. Why? Because we don't respect them. Go watch the conditions. People sit in relative seats. What does that mean? That the state doesn't work like I do. And to end, a little more jokes. I will, of course, support, because, after all, it doesn't matter until there's a different structure of this country – and that's what our Slovenes are saying in place and in the world, it doesn't matter who's where. And here's the thing about expertise. I'll give my opinion. They are not experts with PhDs, Masters and titles that move in the territory of Slovenia and serve bread in their henhouse – or better, they do not serve. Experts are people who have succeeded outside Slovenia. This is the only criterion of expertise in my opinion. I used to be a great football player at Vollocina Football Club, but that's not enough. You must be a footballer at least of Olympia, if not Munich or something like that. So, we have experts like me who used to be a football player at the Volluccina Football Club. Here's our problem, ladies and gentlemen! Last but not least, with great expertise and good experience, perhaps I will take the place of Dr. Mir Cerar, who advised the National Council of Real Estate Law for 350 thousand euros, which fell at the Constitutional Court. These are our professional references. However, I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u68	Thank you, for a little more insight. I have to, Mr. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, note that an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is convened on the basis of the request of Members and Members and should be convened in accordance with the Constitution no later than 15 days. This request actually came after the meeting was announced, but the National Assembly must hold its meeting in the grand hall and we have therefore allowed them to do their work also in the small hall of the National Assembly, and it is not a sign of disrespect, but of coordination between the two events taking place in the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Sonja Ramšak, and Mr Jožef Jerovšek is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal by the President of the Republic proposing to Mrs Prelešnik as an information officer is unfortunately not supported. Not particularly because we have also told the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the recruitments carried out recently prior to the elections are not admissible or should leave them to a new parliament. On the other hand, I cannot support the proposal because the President of the Republic has decided not to propose to this national assembly a candidate because of her competence but because she will receive a sufficient number of votes. I think it is unacceptable that we have also had three other extremely good experts, but unfortunately they have not been given the opportunity to come before this Parliament and to vote on them. Both Mrs Breda Bunič and Mr Tomšič and Mrs Cotman also presented themselves in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. The Slovenian Democratic Party said that everyone in their presentations had shown exceptional knowledge of the area itself, that they had extensive experience in the field covered by the information officer, and that Mrs Prelešnikova did not have support in the collective to which she was going. And if a person who is first among the same does not enjoy the reputation and respect within the collective, it is in fact a poor journey for the work of this body. It is an extremely important body, but it performs an extremely important function for an independent body. In this country, unfortunately, those who are, I will say, favored by a certain political option, while in the opposition, when we point out matters, these opportunities of the people who are capable of having competences with long experience, unfortunately, do not get these opportunities. And to conclude. Of course he doesn't have my support. Remember, today is the 14th day when we have a political prisoner, Mr Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! So far, I have supported the President of the Republic's human resources proposals for all the major positions. I also contributed several times to the fact that we decided to support these proposals in the parliamentary group, although at first there was sometimes a different attitude and conviction. This time, I will not support the President's proposal and I cannot support it. Since I know the culinary mood and statements in the corridors throughout the entire mandate by all Members, then until Mrs Prelesnikov's conduct in the role of secretary-general, this is a real professional work, then if she receives support today, then they do not vote in accordance with their conscience Members, but have an extremely strong influence on them, which is, of course, contrary to Article 82 of the Constitution. During the previous and this mandate, the organisational and logistical solutions of Ms Prelesnikov's services have greatly deteriorated, and the prospects for democratic parliamentary work have deteriorated. To the Members, to their democratic tendencies, the Secretary-General was very restrictive. All conditions have deteriorated and, as a result, the state of the spirit in Slovenian society has deteriorated significantly. However, she was not restrictive of any advisers, including Mr Cerar, who performed one of his four permanent duties here in Parliament. But there was no saving, nothing flattened, even though we saw him extremely rarely here in Parliament. This was all approved and probably improved. Because of these rather biased behaviours, of course, we cannot trust that it will act impartially and transparently on the position proposed by the President of the Republic and is also extremely important. And, I must say, I have been hurt by her shocking and unethical treatment of the late former Member and staff member, the high officials of the National Assembly, Mr Špiletic. And here I think it's gone beyond all bounds. Ethical conduct is also one of the preconditions for a new function, and the President of the Republic should be aware of that. I don't think he apologized here. Mr Špiletic was a minus that he was once a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. As a result, the rubicon was allowed to be exceeded when a person was sick to death and later died. This is where it all ends. And here, Mr President has gone in the wrong direction, supported completely wrong views, actions. Colleagues and colleagues, we are the ones to rise above this legal level at this important moment and to say, "No, that was too much, we cannot support this and we cannot share this trust here." Of course I won't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u72	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor and Mr Jože Tanko is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I must admit that in the last 14 days, I have not heard so much manure from Mrs Secretary-General as was political in this National Assembly and on the Human Resources Commission for a long time. Perhaps Joseph Broz Tito would have exceeded that record if he had been put in here. But what is more important than anything is that I do not know the Secretary-General of the National Assembly who performed this function in order to correspond to all Members and Members or all Members' Groups. There is also no secret that we really have eternally those who are convinced that they are hurt and hurt because someone has not been chosen according to their will. And yet, let me warn you. This same secretary-general was at a time when this party, which is so complaining and has so much to say over the work of the secretary-general, when she was in power, when she had the power and the majority in this national assembly, did absolutely nothing. But she had all the levers. Interestingly, it is only today that we are discussing the application for an information officer that all the problems arise at once. However, the fact is that we all know that in the National Assembly, when the conditions for Members and Members changed in this mandate, this was not decided by the Secretary-General, but was decided by the amendment of the legislation adopted at the time of your most criticism. And it is on this side that you have given the majority support for this amendment of legislation. Therefore, I simply do not understand this despair as a scream from the savanna, when you keep calling out in some sense, but in fact I only understand it as some personal displeasure of individuals, because they have simply failed with some of their aspirations and so on. Or even from the past period and previous mandates, when they have in fact left some definite clues that have not yet been corrected and corrected. Who are they? They know that. If they challenge me, I'll talk about them. About the terms. I hope that now before the elections you will not say that the conditions for the work of Members and Members have deteriorated. In fact, Members and Members of Parliament have far the best working conditions in this country, at least I have heard this several times. And the most distasteful thing I'm listening to today, and a while ago, I even read in the media, and the next thing is to get to that level when you mention the dead, who simply can't tell their truth. You're only talking about something that only you know. That is why I find this extremely incorrect.I have heard your Members and Members quite often, when you mentioned in many debates, how unfair it is to talk about people who are not present. Not that he's not present, Mr. Spiletitch is dead, glory to him! But what you're suggesting is more than unworthy. I only know one thing, and I hope to say that the Secretary-General has done her work properly, honestly, but I believe and I am sure that everyone is never satisfied. However, she did the work she was entrusted with in accordance with her powers — of course, in accordance with her powers. And what is absolutely necessary to ensure working conditions so that the National Assembly can operate and work. Within the debate before we went to the general debate on the Information Commissioner, we have heard many other accusations that have more than clearly resolved because you have not brought any evidence, except what you are doing successfully all the time, and these are the photos of your articles, where the clues themselves and no serious claims are. I believe that the Secretary-General will do her job well and I wish her a successful job. And we'll probably meet her in a different function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u74	Thank you, too. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, this procedural matter that you need to convene a meeting within 15 days is true. But it was a miracle that the 15th day would be today, when the meeting of the Slovenians was in place and around the world. If the President of the National Assembly couldn't find a better date within a 15-day deadline, then something is very wrong. That the attitude towards the Slovenians around the world is weak, however, was also the case with Mr Puksic when he was prevented by intervention by the Secretary-General and by instigation from travelling or visiting Slovenians in South America at the beginning of this mandate. So he's holding it, for sure. With regard to the work of the secretary-general, I would like to remind you of another matter. The information officer shall be a person, a function deciding on a variety of matters, on access to information of a public nature. However, in the National Assembly, a license for work or accreditation was withdrawn from one of the journalists only because he recorded the new Prime Minister and her defence minister's week of sending some e-mails, some messages. Now I'm asking if the person who did this in the National Assembly and took away the accreditation from the press is, because he was doing his job, suitable for an information officer. Will there also be such a privilege or a discredited course of action that some and others will be able to do? It was the only journalist who lost his license in the National Assembly. Now I'm asking if he's the only one who's done anything wrong in the National Assembly of those who have accreditations. You have extensive files on the work of the press. No one, except for this, has ever happened to anything. All of today's staffing, not only the one proposed by the President of the Republic, but also the change in the composition of the Prešeren Fund and the National Council for Culture have exactly the same point – against Janez Janša and against the SDS. Look, you'll see. And if it is necessary that in the National Assembly all recruitments into all institutions, into all organs, are guided by the systematic incorporation of elements against SDS and against Janez Janša, then we systematically incorporate deviations or errors into this country. It is not then clear that some of the procedures such as these are simply guided by some unfair, irregular, illegal way of arriving at procedures, proposals, indictees and so on and then a sanction is imposed. Even in many cases has been the case. And what you're doing is a guarantee that procedures and actions will go exactly the same. If this is supposed to be a characteristic of society to eliminate someone who has proven to be operating within this country, that this is the only way to discredit and stop it, then no improvement can be expected from the situation we are in. All of you here, from the President of the National Assembly forward, participate in this systematic game against SDS and the discreditation of SDS and its representatives. In this way, you prevent any confrontation between programmes and other matters, because you are unable to take action because you are unable to drive the country along the path of neighbouring countries like other European countries, but you are taking a different path, discredit and some of the imaginary processes known from the Middle Ages and so on. It's all going exactly the same. I can see that the candidate for the President of the Republic is the only candidate, as I believe colleague Kociprova would characterise because she has these concepts of suitability that are highly well-treated. But obviously this is not the case because more candidates with better references, including better ethical references, but unfortunately the President of the Republic, as in the KPK, has also overlooked this issue in this case and proposes a person who ensures continuity of work against the Slovenian Democratic Party and Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr Tanko, with regard to your statement that I called for a meeting on purpose at today's meeting in the National Assembly, I need to explain once again that within the 15-day deadline set for the convening of the extraordinary meeting, the position of the local communities towards the agricultural community law should also be organised. This deadline expired yesterday, so this morning we also had a committee to deal with the agrarian community law, and the 15-day deadline expires tomorrow, Saturday. That is why the meeting of the National Assembly is convened on Friday, unless, of course, everyone would like to have a meeting on Saturday and then there would be a few more who would talk about how it would be more appropriate to organise the work of the National Assembly as we actually organised it and allow the two events to take place in the National Assembly. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mojca Prelešnik as an information officer for a period of 5 years. The mandate shall begin on 17 July 2014. Can we make a decision? Mr Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, in the Slovenian People's Party, we decided from the protest that we did not have a position, but let us say in the end, because it is necessary to say that we oppose Mrs Prelesnikov's election to the position of Information Commissioner. Colleagues and colleagues, it's not hygienic and fair, it's not right. Even at the end of the day, it's not like today, a week before the elections, you're doing it with political power. It is not fair and it is not right for the President of the country to do so in the way he did, without consulting the parliamentary groups. Some of you said they weren't specific cases. Where are the miraculous disappearances of referendum signatures? That this is also happening today as we meet our relatives from the suburbs and the world, and this must take place, otherwise I am the third to point out this, in the Hall of the State – at the symbolic level this is not correct. I don't think it's the first time after 14 years that the president of the National Assembly didn't have three minutes to say hello. I cannot help but feel that this is also within the professional services provided by Mrs Prelešnik. To be a meeting of the National Assembly yesterday, that is, by the way, irrelevant. But we're going on a case. 20. On 6th this year, when the elections were already being called, when the electoral campaign was under way, for example, the systematisation that existed, an expert technical collaborator, was transformed into a self-sustaining technical service in 2011, now 20. 6. This is an official job. When someone applied for this job, they even canceled the one you applied for, like this official job. 20. 6th, a few days ago, it happened. That this payment is what you are doing now, Mrs Prelesnik, of those parliamentary groups that you have received the reward for supporting it. And watch out, watch out, we have three vice presidents of the National Assembly, two of them. From 1. And we have four secretaries in this place. Mrs. Preleznik's work. What the fuck are you guys doing?? Who are you making a fool of? From the citizens who pay for it, that's what you're recruiting. If you have an I., then wait for the new National Assembly, and let them legitimately decide who will be the Commissioner of information of a public nature. [[…]] Mrs. Prelešnik three quarters of Slovenia will not trust and shame that [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u78	Mr. Pukšič, maybe just about the hands. I would like to make it very clear that the deadline for the appointment of an information officer is 16 years. Seven. 2014 and the President of the Republic is the one who has to do all the necessary work within this period, and the National Assembly is also involved. That is why the National Assembly, by today’s decision, is within the time limits laid down in the law, and it is not a matter of any urgency, but rather of doing our job until our term of office expires. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Everyone else, too. There is a kind of madness in the National Assembly. At the last meeting of the National Assembly, we have the most extensive programme of human rights change. On important independent institutions in the culture of appointment, the deadlines expire only in September, we are working now, there is no reason to do exactly what you have now foreseen in this scenario in a decaying coalition. There's absolutely no reason. There are also no problems regarding the work or appointment of an information officer. In the course of the debate at the Mandate-Election Commission, we have put forward a number of reasons why the candidate for the President of the Republic is not suitable. It is not suitable for this city because it does not act equally, fair to all Members and Members of the National Assembly, because some Members are in a privileged position, others are taking their rights, they are taking their money. Since some employees in the National Assembly are privileged and come to places with corrections to these acts in the National Assembly, others, even if they have a medical certificate, a certificate or had it, have been disabled and have been made difficult for them instead of making it easier for them to work in the National Assembly and even for the time they spent with us. The candidate proposed by the President of the Republic does not fulfil the conditions does not fulfil the basic conditions for the exercise of an independent function in that country. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I announce the obstruction of voting at this point and announce the obstruction of voting at all of the following items of the agenda, for all the following terms of office, because they bear the same message: for functions in the bodies of the Prešeren Fund, for the National Council for Culture, also for the Information Commissioner, persons who have participated strongly in the discreditation or the President or the Slovenian Democratic Party or for the policy we have led. Take a look at the personnel at Prešeren's fund. The candidate has one of the characteristics that she performed in the performances of that artistic group Janez Janša. The National Council for Culture will also be taken over by someone who led the protests of culturalists against the government of Janez Janša. It is one system of action against SDS and in such votes as you have installed at the last meeting of the National Assembly, our Group will not participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u80	Mr Prevc has the floor to explain his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. President-in-Office, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, I also declare obstruction to vote on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u82	The word has magic. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u83	Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we were deciding on the information officer and when we were talking at the Office of the President of the Republic, I made it clear, on behalf of the Group of Members, that we support Mrs Bunič and we want Mrs Bunič to be also an information officer. Since this was our choice, we also decided in the Group of Members that we would reject any other proposal. I also told the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General quite honestly and clearly a while ago. In view of the fact that the circumstances are such and that I will not be aware of anything, that the presence of our parliamentary group would actually ensure the conclusion of this, and thus the appointment of the Secretary-General of the General Assembly for the Information Commissioner, you must understand that we will also announce the obstruction of this meeting because we are opposed to this appointment and would in fact allow this appointment to be made possible by the presence at this meeting. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I also predict obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u84	Thank you. We can decide. We're voting. 44 Members and Members present. We repeat the vote because the National Assembly is not concluded. We'll vote next time. 44 Members and Members present. Since the National Assembly is not adjourned, I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes and continuing with the third vote at 3:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u85	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats because we are going to make a third vote. Please also check the functioning of the voting devices. This is the third time we've voted. There are 44 Members and Members present. I note that, even in the third vote, the assembly is not concluded, so I am adjourning the meeting. But we'll continue at 16. 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u86	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members. I am informed that some colleagues are still coming, so we will continue with the meeting at 4:25 p.m. I'm taking another 10 minutes. We'll pick it up at 4:25.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-07-04-SDZ6-Izredna-71.ana.u87	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let's get back to work. We are in the third vote. I therefore propose that you check the functioning of the voting apparatus before the decision is taken. Can we make a decision? Is everything okay? We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In this regard, I take note of the fact that Mojci Prelešnik, pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Article 7 of the Information Officer Act relating to the first and second paragraphs of Article 19 of the Law on the Protection of Human Rights, terminates the function of the Information Officer as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. However, in accordance with the provisions of the sixth paragraph of Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, Mojca Prelešnik shall, after the termination of the duties of the Secretary-General, carry out his duties until the appointment of the new Secretary-General of the General Assembly. Allow me to thank Mojka Prelesnik very much for the work done in the National Assembly, and I wish her much success in her new functions or assignments. We are moving on to the proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office of a member, the discharge of a member and the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. The government has proposed to the National Assembly that the Governing Board of the Prešeren Fund be named Te Reba and Simon Popek, who will replace Dr. Jožet Trontlja and Slavko Hren. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a mother's working room, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the Slovenian Democratic Party has announced its absence from this point, I conclude my position. We are moving on to the debate of Members. Mag. You want a word with Ivan Vogrin? No, no, no. Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek and Jože Tanko announced obstruction, they are not there, so I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. I shall put to the vote a motion for a decision ending the term of office of a member of Dr Jože Trontl in the Administrative Committee of the Prešeren Fund and the duties of a member shall be relieved of Slavko Hren and the members shall be Teje Reba and Simon Popek. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. I'm guessing the assembly isn't concluded. I repeat the vote. We'll vote next time. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the National Council for Culture. The proposal to appoint a President and members of the National Council for Culture was tabled by the Government. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the working body of the Member State which submitted a proposal for a decision in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party has announced obstruction, and I conclude by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, would you like a word? No, no, no. Mr Jožef Jerovšek and Jože Tanko announced obstruction, so I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. I put to the vote a motion for a decision appointing Method Pevec to the National Council for Culture for a period of five years and Dr. Andrej Blatnik, Dr. Milena Mileva Blažič, Dr. Sonja Ana Hojer, Uroš Lajovic, Jadranka Plut and Alja Predan. The mandate starts at 26. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[against 1.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Conclusion on the termination of the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. Marko Bandelli is a member of the National Assembly by letter of 2. 6. 2014 forwarded a resignation statement from the seat of a member of the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia due to the incompatibilities of the work of a member of the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia with membership in the political party bodies. In this regard, the Mandate-Election Commission presented to the National Assembly a proposal for a decision to conclude that the Member of the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia is to terminate the mandate. This is followed by a shift in the positions of the members of the groups. There is no Slovenian democratic party which has announced obstruction at this point, so I am concluding by presenting my views. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mag. Ivan Vogrin is cancelling, Mr Jože Tanko has announced obstruction, so I am closing the debate. On the basis of Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is proposed that, pursuant to Article 26, paragraph 7, concerning Article 18(3) and Article 18(4) of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it be noted that Marko Bandelli has made a declaration to resign from the seat of the Supervisory Board of Radiotelevision of Slovenia and therefore, pursuant to Article 126, paragraph 7, concerning Article 18 of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia terminates the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. I'm guessing the National Assembly has made a decision. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to identify and assess the functioning of extremist groups. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[against 1.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[against no one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Krapan Commission of Inquiry. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision on the amendments and additions to the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[against no one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and also conclude the 71st extraordinary meeting of the congregation. Thank you for participating and seeing me at the next extraordinary session.
