ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Maša Kociper, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Janja Attack, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mrs Alenka Pavlič by 12 noon, Mr Jožef Horvat by 15:00, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Franz Bogovic and Dr Vinko Gorenak. I welcome everyone here. And I would like to ask you, in this opening part, for your attention. In fact, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to remind myself, before the 21st regular meeting of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly was exactly ten years ago, namely on 28 January 2004, to ratify Slovenia's accession treaty with the European Union or its current members and thus to take the last step towards full membership in the Union. Slovenia has always been part of Europe. Historical, cultural, and political and economic ties connected us. Therefore, efforts have been made to become its full-fledged member, the logical continuation of our independence and independence. Today, after almost a decade of membership in this so-called family of European nations, we are also linked to the Union and especially to common values. Today, the European Union faces many challenges, including the deep economic and financial crisis, which has revealed, among other things, a number of shortcomings, particularly the common European monetary system and our financial system. From these findings, we need to develop common policies that, while maintaining solidarity, will enable economic growth and job creation. In doing so, sovereignty is key in designing measures and not increasing the dependence of small members. We are aware that, after centuries of conflict history, the European continent has found a way and will for successful and effective reconciliation and integration, but, above all, after the dispersion left behind by World War II, I believe that the European Union remains a great and optimistic project, in which we must also believe in the future. Thank you for your attention. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE VOLUNTARY LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LAW FROM THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT IN THE CURRENT PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mag. Renata Zatler, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, will provide an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The European Union's legal system allows the European Parliament to run for elections to both domestic citizens and citizens of other Member States of the European Union. Thus, the right guaranteed by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which is the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union, allows a citizen of the European Union to vote and be loved in the Member State in which he resides. Council Directive 93/109, which was adopted in 1993, is further regulated by the exercise of active and passive electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament. Under the same conditions as Slovenian citizens, a national of another Member State shall have the right to vote if he has permanent residence in Slovenia and if he has not been deprived of the right to vote in his own country. In 2002, before Slovenia's entry into the European Union, a basic law was adopted that regulated the rules and procedures, followed by two more novelties. The present, the third amendment of the law, is needed for two reasons. The first reason concerns the obligation to transpose the previously amended directive which regulates the electoral right of citizens of the European Union to Members of the European Parliament. The amendments adopted in December 2012 amend the candidate procedure. The amendment of our law thus changes or regulates more precisely the procedure for the nomination of a person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. It is new that such a person, who comes from another Member State and has permanent residence in Slovenia, will make a statement that she has not been deprived of the right to run for office in the European Parliament in the country of origin. The statement will be checked by our National Election Commission in the country of origin. There is a possibility that the application may be rejected or that the Member will even terminate the term of office below if it is found that a false statement has been made or that the person does not fulfil the conditions. The second reason for amending the law is linked to the recommendations of the European Commission of 12. 3. 2013 on strengthening democratic and effective elections to the European Parliament. The elections will also include political links between national political parties and political parties at the level of the European Union in the voting process for the European Parliament and the electoral campaign. Without a change, this would not be possible, since the current legislation expressly prohibits the use of the name and symbols of foreign political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Jerk Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! As a matter of fact, our committee, as a parent working body, dealt with this subject in the 15th century. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We were informed earlier of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation. Representative of the proposer, State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior As in the explanation of the articles, Renata Zatler said earlier that the proposed law transposes Council of Europe Directive 2013 of 20 December 2012 amending Directive 93/109 as regards more detailed arrangements for the exercise of passive electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the European Union who reside in a Member State, but are not citizens of the European Union. The deadline for its implementation is today, 28 January 2014. In the event that a candidate who is not a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia is a national of a Member State of the European Union is on the candidate list, it will be necessary to make a declaration that he has not been deprived of his right to run for the European Parliament. This will be checked through the National Election Commission and, if the information is sent in contravention of the content of the candidate's statement, the candidacy will be rejected. In the event of a later receipt of information, the National Assembly shall not approve the mandate or terminate the mandate of the Member. In line with the European Commission's recommendations of 12 March 2013 on strengthening democratic and effective implementation of elections to the European Parliament, the proposal for a new European Parliament stipulates that political links between national political parties and European political parties may be identified in the nomination process on the ballots and in the electoral campaign. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mira Palhartinger, said that the comments from their written legal opinion were duly taken into account by the amendments tabled or clarified by the applicant. Again, she pointed out that the provisions of Article 18, paragraph 6 and 7, as amended, would fall within the scope of the provisions establishing the outcome of the elections in Article 23 of the Act, which is not the subject of the proposed amendment. In presenting their written opinion, the President of the Commission of the National Council of State, Rajko Fajt, said that the Commission supported the proposed law, but at the same time drew attention to the low electoral participation in the European Parliament elections in Slovenia and expressed concerns about the indications of the political links between national political parties and European political parties. The representative of the State Election Commission, Dusan Vukko, expressed his support for the proposed law and the amendments tabled. Members welcomed the proposed amendments, which would, inter alia, allow for the personal identification of candidates by European political parties, who will also present their candidates for President of the European Commission during the electoral campaign. The representative of the National Election Commission further explained that candidates will decide for themselves whether to use the political links of national political parties with European political parties. The Committee then adopted both amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The Committee also adopted the following decision: The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government proposes that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, a reduced procedure, be placed on the agenda of the 21st ordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Janja Klasinc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u6	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! Mr President of the National Assembly told us today that we are celebrating today the tenth anniversary of the ratification of the accession treaty to the European Union in this National Assembly, and it is a good opportunity that the law we are talking about today has come as the first item of the agenda. Four months from now, on Sunday, 25 May, we will elect our Members and Members to the European Parliament for the third time for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. All parliamentary parties, as well as non-parliamentary parties, have already started to work on preparations a few months ago, and at the last minute today, and we have taken up the adoption of two legal solutions in the National Assembly, which concern the possibility of candidateing other members of the European Union living in our country and another problem, and this is the possibility for political parties to mark their European political links on the ballots. The main reason for the adoption of the amendment of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament is the obligation to comply with the acquis of the European Union and to implement the recommendations of the European Commission concerning the separation of political links between national political parties. The proposal thus changes the candidate procedure in the case of a candidate who is not a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, but who is a citizen of another member of the European Union and who lives in Slovenia. Newly, if such a candidate is to be nominated, it will be necessary to attach a declaration that he was not deprived of his right to run for office in the European Parliament. In addition, data on the date and place of birth and the last address of residence in the home Member State will have to be attached in order to identify candidates more effectively in such a case. The candidate's statement on the existence of electoral law will be checked in the candidate's home country through the State Election Commission. If the information is sent in contravention of the content of the applicant's statement, the application will be rejected or, in the event of the later receipt of the information, the National Assembly will not confirm the mandate or withdraw the mandate of the Member. Another important news is the possibility that political links between national political parties and European political parties can also be identified on the ballots and in the electoral campaign. The law now in force expressly prohibits this. This change is also addressed by the European Commission's recommendations on strengthening democratic and effective elections to the European Parliament. In Positive Slovenia, we particularly welcome the proposed solutions and are pleased that they will be adopted in time to be used for the upcoming European elections. Above all, we welcome the possibility that political parties in the electoral campaign and in the ballots can also indicate political links with European political parties, and the news will also allow political parties to more prominently identify their candidates who will run for president or European Parliament or the European Commission. As a result, this also means greater identification by the individual or by the party to which the individual belongs. On the other hand, this also provides a better opportunity for all those citizens and citizens who do not deal with the European Union's policies often and can thus be better able to draw closer to those European institutions. Of course we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We have before us an amendment to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, which transposes the Council of Europe Directive 2013 of 20 into the Slovenian legal order. 12. 2012, as I said, amending the 1993 Directive on a more detailed regime for the exercise of the right to be loved in elections to the European Parliament. They are citizens of the European Union who reside in a Member State but are not citizens of the European Union. It therefore regulates the procedure for the nomination of a person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. It's purely technical. However, it is important that the deadline for implementing the Directive is 28 January 2014, which is today. Unfortunately, we must find that this law and this solution will not be fully implemented today. This is very controversial for our client. If the content of the legal novel is not already disputed, the Government's approach to the implementation of the directive is questionable in the Slovenian legal order. We are implementing it on the last day, which is certainly a concern in terms of government relations by Alenka Bratušek with the National Assembly and citizens and with the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as with citizens of other Member States of the European Union. In our view, it is the unreasonable conduct and arrogance of the government of Alenka Bratušek to the acquis of the European Union. We wonder why the government waited until the last minute to bring the law into the process. We wonder whether he is afraid of the transparency of the European Union's action or of the outcome of the elections, which would show the most credible outcome of public opinion. Such an approach by the current government, which raises many concerns, will also not contribute to greater electoral participation in European elections, which is a pressing problem. In our view, the Government is consciously working on the abstinence of voters in European elections, and this is literally sabotage. There is no reason that the law has not yet been adopted to keep our citizens informed and, of course, also those citizens of the countries of the European Union who reside in our country. Well, that's politically unacceptable. The technical details of this law, which have already been repeated before me, will not be repeated. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party will not oppose the bill and we will support it in the vote. Of course, we support proposals that will give European elections greater transparency in the run-off process itself, but I must say that I am a different opinion than my forerunner, that today is the most appropriate day. It is indeed an anniversary of ratification and on the anniversary of ratification, we should show our citizens and the European Union that we are able to implement the directives of the European Union within the deadlines set by the European Union. That's today. [[Incomprehensible]] However, it is a mockery from the European Union and from citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. I didn't want to interrupt, but I would like to remind you that in the performance of the Group of Members, there is no possibility of being politicised by the position of the predecessor. This was beyond the rules of procedure, which we listened to in one part. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law implementing Council Directive 2013/1EU. The date for the European elections has been known for some time. In Slovenia, the elections will take place between 22 and 25 May of this year, on 25 May, while in the Member States of the European Union the elections will take place. That Directive amends the candidate procedure in a particular part in the case of a Union citizen in a Member State other than his or her home Member State. In this case, the candidate, a national from another Member State of the European Union, should he run in Slovenia, will have to attach data on the date and place of birth and the last address of residence in the home Member State. He will also have to make a statement that he was not deprived of his right to run for elections in the European Parliament and therefore of his right to vote. The candidate's statement on the existence of electoral law will be checked in the candidate's home country through our National Election Commission, if, of course, the citizen of the European Union will run for us. If the information from the home country is contrary to the declaration, a sanction will follow, whether the candidacy is refused or the National Assembly does not approve or terminate its mandate if the mandate has already been confirmed. So the guards exist. The last word, however, is the word of our National Election Commission. The European Commission’s recommendations on promoting and simplifying the provision of information to voters on the links between national parties and European political parties are also taken into account. We will be able to draw the attention of the Social Democrats to the fact that we are part of the PESA, this is a shortcut for the European Party of Socialists and Democrats, and this shortcut can also be attributed to the vote. This is very important for us because the link between the parties and the European Union is also visible. Six Member States of the European Union already have Austria, Belgium, Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom in their provisions and this will not be new to them. Let me recall, however, that the electoral law in the European Parliament is actually the first law, which has also tested the practice of introducing electoral quotas for the underrepresented sex, and we can boast that we have in the European Parliament a representation that confirms parity democracy, namely four Members and four Members. Indeed, the deadline for implementation is due today, and we think that the implementation of that directive could have been done earlier without waiting for the last day. Nevertheless, the applicant points out that some other Member States of the European Union have not yet done so. Better late than never we call the Social Democrats and we will confirm the proposal for a novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. State secretary with co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us an amendment to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, which brings about two minor changes, which are the result of the implementation of the Council of the European Union Directive and the recommendations of the European Commission regarding the labelling of political links. This changes the candidate procedure itself in the case of a candidate who is not a Slovenian citizen, but who is a citizen of another member of the European Union. At the same time, in order to strengthen the democratic and effective conduct of the legislative elections, it is newly stipulated that the parties to the electoral campaign may use, in addition to their name, the name of the political party to which they are linked at European level. These amendments should already apply to this year's elections to the European Parliament, for which the European Union authorities have decided that the Member States of the European Union should carry out them between 22 and 25 May this year, and the President of the Republic must issue the call for elections act by 10 March. As it is said, the main objective of the amendment is the transposition of the EU directive into the national legal order, so we will support the amendment by Members and Members of the National Gazette. In Slovenia we have been facing the problem of low electoral participation for a long time, in particular for elections to the European Parliament. Therefore, the Government must also seek new opportunities in the future to strengthen electoral participation. The political parties and we, and politicians, must strengthen the confidence of our citizens in the institutions of the European Union and restore faith in common European values.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you so much for your words and welcome everyone together in my name too! The election of Members to the European Parliament, in addition to the local elections and the elections to the National Assembly, is one of the biggest holidays of democracy, which according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group deserves more attention and importance. The European Parliament's decisions have an increasing impact on the lives of all of us. We have just before us a short amendment to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, which brings about two key changes. The first set of amendments concerns a change in the candidate procedure in the case of a candidate who is not a national of the Republic of Slovenia and is a national of another Member State of the European Union. In this case, the applicant will have to submit a declaration that he was not deprived of his right to run for elections in the European Parliament and of his date and place of birth, including his last residence in the home Member State. That declaration will be verified by the State Election Commission in the home country. If the information is sent in contravention of the content of the applicant's statement, the application will be rejected. In the event of a later receipt of information, there will also be a situation where the mandate is not confirmed and the Member will even terminate the mandate if it starts to carry it out. All of these changes are due to the harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the European one. In addition to these changes, the proposed novelty brings another set of solutions, which according to the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group are very welcome, as they will provide the electorate with more information on the candidate's lists, both in the election campaign and in the electorate himself. It is stipulated that political links between national political parties and European political parties can be identified in the voting process and in the electoral campaign. We estimate that it is extremely important for voters to know which political group at the level of the European Union belongs to a certain candidate or party who is willing to give her a vote. In the opinion of our parliamentary group, this can also be good for the candidates themselves, as they will also be recognised as candidates of the European political group and of the Slovenian political parties or lists. In our view, this has been underworked in the past. We will therefore not oppose the proposed novelties in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There are elections of Members and Members to the European Parliament just before the door. The type of Slovenian political parties already hastening to register their candidates. This is not about the importance of these elections from a political point of view alone. These elections represent the largest transnational elections in the world. Citizens of the Member States of the European Union will be re-elected in the European Parliament to represent our interests in the decision-making of the European Union, i.e. when deciding on matters that go beyond national borders. The new electoral law to the European Parliament, which is before us, does not interfere with the system of these elections, is essentially about the implementation of a directive of the European Union concerning the simplification of the procedure in the event that the candidate for a European Member is not a national of the Republic of Slovenia and is a national of another Member State of the European Union. The second amendment included in this amendment relates to a partially amended ballot indicating the political link between national political parties and European political parties. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we view this as positive, as it essentially provides additional information to the electorate and the electorate. However, in order for these changes to be included in this year's European elections, we must hurry with acceptance. No one in our parliamentary group has expressed their concerns, so we will unitedly support this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u18	Dearly-reverred present, well-welcome! This year is the electoral year for the European Parliament elections. Since the European Parliament is the only body where Members from each Member State are elected by direct elections, elections are so much more important for each Member State. Christian Democrats would like to point out that the role of European institutions is becoming increasingly important, as more and more areas for the entire European Union area are being regulated by directives that are then implemented by Member States into domestic law. There are more and more regulations, but these are rules that apply directly in all Member States. It is true that in all Member States, including Slovenia, there is a lack of awareness among the general public of these rules, and in particular the media have given little attention to this area. This is also demonstrated by the recent Eurobarometer survey. More than 84% of Europeans believe that electoral participation would increase if voters were better informed about the impact of the European Union on their daily lives and also on the parties' programmes themselves. As a result, the public's interest in elections to the European Parliament is significantly lower compared to the elections to the national parliaments and the participation in elections is less modest. We Christian Democrats believe that elections to the European Parliament are as important as elections to the National Assembly and deserve the participation of every voter in these elections. We also wish that the campaign itself would be substantive and would help to raise the awareness of the citizens of Slovenia by entering the European Union, as we often forget that. The proposal for a amendment to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament means aligning our electoral legislation with the European Directive. We are introducing in our domestic legislation a provision on the possibility of a European political party joining the national political party in election and election procedures in addition to the national political party's code. The European Commission has already called on national political parties to clearly inform their voters about the European political party they are associated with. This will make it easier for voters to connect national political parties with European parties. Another novelty brought by the amendment of this law is the possibility for a Member from the Republic of Slovenia to be nominated by a citizen of any of the other Member States of the European Union, provided that he has a permanent or temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia, and provided that he has not been deprived of the right to vote. The Christian Democrats of the New Slovenia Group will be supporting the European Parliament's amendment of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia. The new possibility of labelling the links between our political parties and European political parties or groups is also a good solution and will help to make European political orientation more visible. This will also make it easier to link the name and content of each Slovenian party or candidate with a name and political orientation at European level. New Slovenia is a member of the European People's Party, the largest political group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Jerovšek wishes to speak in a procedural manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose and also demand that the National Assembly adopt a special declaration at the evening vote asking the Government to justify all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly for the untimely introduction of a law implementing the European Union electoral directive into the European Parliament. Since the law will enter into force after the deadline for implementation, without justification from the Government, all political damage to the public will unduly burden the National Assembly. Mr President, with such a statement and an urgent apology from the Government, we will protect the dignity of the National Assembly and you as President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you. I think it would be more appropriate for you to refer the question to the Government, because the opportunity for these discussions was also on the working body. I would like to inform you that the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law amending the law on radiotelevision of Slovenia, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Uroš Grilc, Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u22	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! In the proposal for a law amending the Radiotelevision Act, Slovenia is limited to two key and substantive changes, and we limit ourselves only to the most urgent changes that are necessary at the moment for the best possible functioning of the public service. The first objective of the law is to determine the amount of RTV contribution in the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia and not more in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We know that the budget and the related Budget Implementation Act are adopted for a period of two years, that this law is special in its way of adopting that the public and its key stakeholders are not involved in this process. In this context, in terms of the stability of the operation of Radiotelevision, we want to place the amount of RTV contribution back in the home law, as it once was, which, of course, also reduces the possibility of difficulties in the possible delay in the adoption of the budget. You know, there was a very serious funding problem here when the law was not adopted in time. However, I must stress that the amount of the RTV contribution remains unchanged for natural persons and amounts to EUR 12.75 and therefore we are not in any way prejudice to the amount of the RTV contribution. The second change appears to be very marginal, but it corrects some of the nomotechnic errors that are still quite numerous in the existing law. In the interdepartmental debate, we have been alerted by a number of professional services from various ministries to a number of such mistakes, but we wanted to make this novel, with these five articles actually eliminating what is most important at this time. We are also ahead of the creation of a new leadership of Radiotelevision Slovenia, and in this regard a nomotechnic error which is evident and which speaks of the fact that in Article 16 of the existing law for the election of the Director-General we are satisfied with a simple majority, which is pure lapsus. Of course, it is the need for a so-called qualified majority, which is the majority of the members of the Programme Council. It is important, therefore, that we remove these uncertainties and that national Radiotelevision without any doubt as to the conduct of the electoral procedures, the appointment of management staff in this year is also successful. The remaining part of the editorial corrections relates to the harmonisation of the individual terms referred to in Article 32 of the Law, where we have given more appropriate legal terms, in particular in the field of education and social protection. In line with the forecasts of the National Programme for Culture this year, we will propose a new law on RTV at the Ministry, which, together with the analysis of the media space in the spring months, will be a broad public debate this draft day, and I believe that, of course, there is an opportunity for some other issues to be addressed, which have also been raised on the Committee on Culture, but that we will not intervene in these urgent changes in the public service system and put it at risk in any way. Last but not least, it is also the area of constitutional freedom in the field of the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture as a working mother and I give the floor to the president of Majda Potat to present the report. And here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a fellow Member, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia was considered by the Committee on Culture at its 7th meeting on 14 January this year as the working body of the mother. At its 74th regular meeting on 6 December 2013, the Government submitted it to the National Assembly by means of a proposal for a hearing and adoption following a summary procedure and by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. Although she did not have any comments on the proposed text of the individual articles, she pointed out that the provision of Article 4 should be supplemented by the publication of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, the 58th Article of which, as a result of the transposition of the substantively unchanged provisions in the RTV Slovenia Act, ceased to apply with the application of the Act in question. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport has examined and supported the proposal of the law. The Commission notes that the proposal for a law defining the amount of RTV contribution is an appropriate systemic solution to ensure the financial autonomy of public RTV Slovenia. The amount of the contribution is now regulated by the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 and is also foreseen for the following two laws on the implementation of budgets. Within the deadline of business, the amendments were tabled by the four coalition groups to Article 4 and by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members to Article 2. The proposal for an amendment to the Committee was also tabled by the SDS Group at its meeting at Article 2. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the Minister of Culture stressed that the main purpose of the draft law is to redefine the amount of RTV contribution in the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, which is in its 32nd Article, as already stated in the past and which, in terms of system regulation, is a more appropriate solution. Since the law on the implementation of budgets is only adopted for a period of two years and after a procedure which does not ensure public participation and coordination between key stakeholders and the addressees of the regulation, the current regulation is also not optimal in terms of ensuring the financial independence of RTV Slovenia. This independence is a prerequisite for ensuring institutional autonomy and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia. The remaining part of the amendment proposal relates to minor corrections which are exclusively of a nomotechnical or editorial nature but are necessary to ensure the full clarity and certainty of the regulation. In the debate, some discussers drew attention to several petitions and initiatives by citizens and citizens to the insubordination and non-payment of RTV contributions due to dissatisfaction with the content of RTV Slovenia programmes. In their view, the current RTV programme does not provide relevant programming content, such as educational, religious, scientific and other. Thus, RTV Slovenia would approach a wider range of viewers and listeners or, on the other hand, relieve Slovenian households if members of households or other private users were not satisfied with the programme, so they would not pay RTV contributions. The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation proposed an amendment to Article 2 of the bill, which would reduce the amount of RTV contribution from 12.75 euros to 12 euros. The Committee did not adopt the proposal. In the discussion below, some Committee members and discussers pointed out in particular the inadmissibility of arbitrarial regulation of the amount of RTV contributions and stressed that such arrangements would not withstand any serious legal judgement. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 2; it adopted the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 4. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. This includes the adoption of an amendment and I propose that you support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Andrej Čuš will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much. A nice greeting to all present, and of course to the Minister! As has already been said, on Tuesday 14 January at the Committee on Culture, we discussed in second reading the proposal for a law amending the Law on RTV Slovenia. The law is amended in Article 32 in such a way as to give the Government the possibility to redefine the amount of RTV contributions. The current amount of the contribution is set out in the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 and the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, which is probably not the best solution in terms of the system regime of RTV Slovenia. In order to ensure the financial autonomy of the public RTV and because the law on the implementation of budgets is only adopted for two years, the amount of the RTV contribution is re-regulated in a more systematic manner, in the framework of the RTV Slovenia Act, but, as proposed, we are assessing that it is not the most appropriate solution. While the amount of the RTV contribution is unchanged in numbers and would still amount to EUR 12.75 per month for individuals for private use, we consider this to be only a deceptive starting point, which does not guarantee the full clarity and determination of the regulation for the financial independence of the public media institution. With the proposal of the law, the Government defines an increased base as a new basis. Thus, in this increased amount they redefine the contribution in the law and do not return it to the original base. This means that this foundation can still be raised or reduced by the Government, which in our view can also mean political pressure on RTV Slovenia. We believe that with the cost-effectiveness of public television we should achieve that the contribution will not need to be increased in the future. On 14 January, on the Committee on Culture, the SDS Group tabled an amendment aimed at reducing the RTV contribution. The Public Institute of RTV Slovenia operates with profits, most employees have received Christmas, and many irregularities such as the various fictitious costs, payments for broadcasts that have not been broadcasted or not recorded at all, fictitious travel costs and other irrational use of public funds are also relevant. We want a reduction in the RTV contribution, because in this crisis this would be the only thing that would have been greatly influenced by the government of Alenka Bratušek, since all other taxes, burdens and other services have been strongly influenced. Therefore, we propose to put at least something on some basic and, say, symbolic level to lower. The mission of the public institution RTV Slovenia should be to provide comprehensive information and equal treatment of the public interest of all social groups of citizens who pay it. Also because of dissatisfaction with the implementation of the mission of national television, there has been an increase in the forecasts of civil disobedience in the payment of RTV deposits. In view of the debate on the Committee and the exercise of public rights to condition the ability of the public RTV – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on RTV Slovenia – we have decided not to support changes in the law in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Say hello to everyone again. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law that eliminates only some of the most obvious shortcomings of the law in force. We are aware that the identification of an RTV contribution is one of the issues where opinions can be most broken and where public support can also be very effective. True, the conditions in which we live are such that it is possible to say that the promise of a reduction is one that is the most agreeable among humans. However, let us say that the proposed amendment to the amount of the RTV contribution does not change; it merely places it in a law in which, according to the current legal order and even after a number of warnings from the Legal and Legal Service, you should only remember the comments when adopting the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, in fact, it should be put in place. Indeed, the current RTV Act gives the government the possibility of a 10% change in the amount of RTV contribution. It should be noted, however, that a law was rejected at the referendum, under which the current applicants felt that coordination of the RTV contribution with the movement of living costs could be possible. This means not only adapting to the increase in living costs, but also adapting to the reduction in living costs. This was followed by a series of attempts by which either the government or the opposition party tried to raise support in people with the above-mentioned proposal to reduce the RTV contribution – including in the ZUJF. We Social Democrats have always resisted this because we are aware that for the quality of the public service that RTV Slovenia must carry out under the applicable law, stable sources of funding must be provided. If there are any irregularities in the use of public funds, the public institution RTV Slovenia shall have competent authorities to carry out its function for this purpose. There may also be a different form of control from the internal audit to the audit of the Court of Auditors. As regards other corrections, they are small only in appearance, and even in these corrections, the shortcomings that have been experienced in the past have been addressed by a number of public controversy and, last but not least, by the court, we consider it appropriate to correct the law and to require the Supervisory Council to harmonise internal acts with the amended law. Finally, we are also aware as legislators of the need to harmonise terminology within the RTV Act with the terminology in force in other laws. Thus, we do not have written in the law that these are schools, but that they are educational institutions, that we have properly recorded institutions that provide social services and so on. So these are the changes that are necessary and necessary at this moment, and we will support them. Of course, we are aware that more extensive amendments to the Public RTV Act are being announced, but that the path to which we are going to reach, in our opinion and experience, we refer, however, to two referendums, very long and uncertain, and the question is whether we will succeed in a third adopted law, which will also take into account all the innovations that the public institution would have to adopt in technical terms, of course, and also in European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mrs Polonca Komar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Freedom of expression referred to in Article 39, paragraph 1, of the Constitution requires the State to adopt appropriate rules to ensure that public media, in particular radio and television, can carry out their duties independently in the free formulation of public opinion. Therefore, the legislator must ensure, through appropriate legislation, the programme, organisational and financial autonomy of the public media. This is particularly true for those public media set up by the State and whose main purpose is to ensure the exercise of the constitutional right to public information and information. The proposal for a law entails an urgent amendment or addition that corrects the legal system's shortcomings and is essential to ensure the financial independence of RTV Slovenia and its institutional autonomy. The main purpose of the bill is thus to redefine the amount of RTV contribution in the RTV Slovenia Act 1. The current amount of the RTV contribution is set out in the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 and in the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, which is an inappropriate solution in view of the system-wide regulation of RTV Slovenia. Since the law on the implementation of budgets is only adopted for a period of two years and after a procedure which does not ensure public participation and coordination between key stakeholders and the addressees of the regulation, the current regulation is also not optimal in terms of ensuring the financial independence of RTV Slovenia, which is a prerequisite for ensuring institutional autonomy and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia. We have written in the programme of the Civil Gazette that we will guarantee the autonomy of the media space and that since there is a proposal to amend the law in this direction, we will support it. At the same time, we expect more comprehensive amendments to the Law on RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Again, we are discussing national television, which is discussed in almost every session. I am interested in when we will begin to respect Article 1 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, which states that Radio Television of Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national importance that performs public service in the field of radio and television activities with the aim of providing democratic, social and cultural needs for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia worldwide, members and members of Slovenian national minorities in Italy, Austria and Hungary, the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia and other activities in accordance with this law and statute of RTV Slovenia and the law governing the field of the media. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia stressed in its decisions that freedom of expression constitutes one of the key institutional conditions for the effectiveness of the democratic process. The question to me here is how will we protect RTV Slovenia from commercialisation, since we are living at a time when most media have become yellow. That is why everything needs to be done to bring national television back to its basic mission, such as information, education and entertainment. Many times we do not like their work and their reporting method, and all those who are not satisfied with this reporting method, we must do everything we can to get the national RTV Slovenia back in this country, which is thanks to us who are sitting here today something completely different. I agree with all the critics of RTV Slovenia, let's just give her the freedom to breathe. Someone who wants to be independent has to have financial autonomy. It is therefore right that the amount of the RTV contribution should be re-organized in a more systematic and democratic manner. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed amendments to the law in order to terminate the 58th Article of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, which regulate the amount of the RTV subscription, also because the amount of the contribution remains 12,75 euros per month and I hope that the Government does not propose these changes with a fig in its pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With the amendment of the Radiotelevision Act Slovenia, the amount of RTV contribution is re-regulated systematically within the framework of the law governing the functioning of public Radiotelevision, which is a system for a more appropriate solution from now on. Since the laws on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia are adopted for a period of two years, the proposed solution will consequently allow for greater financial autonomy of the Radiotelevision of Slovenia and the decision on the level of the contribution to RTV will be less subject to every political interest. In doing so, I would like to point out that the amount of the RTV contribution remains unchanged, i.e. 12.75 euros. The Ministry considers such a solution to be even more democratic, since, unlike the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, the Crown Law on RTV Slovenia is adopted following a procedure in which the public concerned is also allowed to participate in the public debate. Therefore, this novelty brings only the most urgent changes, in order for RTV Slovenia to be properly regulated, we need a completely new law, for which we expect it to be prepared this year in the DeSUS Group. As many in the public sector as in the field of RTV, there is a lack of transparency, organisational and status quo and obsolescence, which makes Radiotelevision not the most friendly service for our citizens and citizens. In this regard, the most worrying fact is that the policy is subject to decision-making on the composition of management jobs. The DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u36	Your Honor! The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia believe that the current method of regulating RTV contribution is inadequate mainly because it prevents the systematic stability of the institution RTV Slovenia and thus serious financial planning. Novela puts things back into her place, namely, the system law. Surely we all want the public broadcasting programme to be as quality, as varied as possible, as objective and as versatile as possible. National television has a different function and position than commercial media. RTV contribution is an important source of revenue for it, as advertising cannot generate as much as some commercial media can. Of course, we Christian Democrats are also critical of the fact that some RTV Slovenia parade horses are unable to take full advantage of and thus miss a few opportunities to strengthen the budget. It is a pity that TV has cut off at least two very popular shows, namely Emo's annual selection of Eurovision Singing, and the Views of Slovenia. I am pleased that a decision has recently been made to re-elect our Eurovision song at the Ema. Participation in Eurovision Singing is important because of the promotion of Slovenia and Slovenian culture, so it is not appropriate for us to be represented by foreign singers and in a foreign language at the festival. We may never win, but we can promote our country, culture, and language with dignity. Spectators and listeners often turn to us, Members. In particular, I should like to point out to the audience the 1st National Radio Programme, which we expect most from the audience, and in particular that it will be dedicated to the widest possible range of listeners. I can commend some excellent contact shows, while religious content is still underrepresented by many listeners. Nor should we tolerate any insults against believers or any other group of citizens, which still occasionally occurs. Christian Democrats of New Slovenia believe that the quality of programmes can constantly improve to the general satisfaction of listeners, although we are aware that it is never possible to meet everyone at the same time. Objective reporting, however, greatly helps to improve the state of democracy and also encourages us to respect higher ethical standards. In the hope that the new RTV Slovenia law will help improve the quality of the programmes, we will support the novel in the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia. Of course, we expect and demand from the management of RTV Slovenia that financial resources be spent economically, legally and transparently.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Mitja Meršol will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to the Minister with a colleague, dear colleagues and colleagues! Very attractive, political and party populism would be, if I said now that we are telling all viewers and viewers in Slovenia that no RTV contribution will have to be paid, but unfortunately this message would not go through programme 3 because it would dry up or fail the entire technical system due to lack of resources. It's so good to talk about the whole thing soberly. Positive Slovenia certainly supports amendments to the law, which introduces really more systematic regulation of the RTV contribution itself and returns it back to the RTV Act of the Budget Implementation Act. And what is very important is that this change is also addressed in the second set, the issues referred to in Article 16 or in the indent, which were raised wrongly in relation to the decision-making or consent to the budget, the financial planning of RTV in fact, as well as the procedure for the appointment of radio and television directors. More importantly, the fact that it is now perfectly clear in this article what is the name or resolution of the Director-General of RTV by requiring a high-quality majority of all members of the Programme Council. It is also very important to me, or the Positive Slovenia Group and Positive Slovenia, to support such a system-wide arrangement of RTV, and this will probably also be a possible thing of the future RTV Act, which concerns the system-wide regulation of the financing of the public institution established in the national and cultural interests of the Republic of Slovenia, and which should be regulated in such a way that it does not affect the autonomy and independence of this public institution. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 27 January 2014. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group, we proposed an amendment to Article 4 of the Act, namely that when the economic growth will be 2.5% of GDP, the amount of RTV contribution will also be reduced. Basically, we can think about this at the time, because it will be automatic, probably also due to a better economic climate, including less exemption from the payment of RTV contributions and will automatically come to the cash office of a much more financial contribution from RTV. Secondly, I would like to say that we would not have proposed this in the Group of Members if we did not realize that there are some internal reserves that let us know that if some authorities or individuals in the Public Office were acting on the letter of the law or rationally, like many economic operators or public institutions in this crisis, there would be much less costs. Let me just read some news or suspected irregularities. Let's say, if I start by paying 130 thousand euros for an unscheduled show at a public institute, I don't know where these 130 thousand euros are, who earned it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u41	Mr Chuš, I must remind you that your amendment speaks, as you presented it, of 2.5% of the growth of the social product and in relation to this contribution itself, so please remain with this content, otherwise I will have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u42	Mr President, thank you for your warning, but that's what I'm talking about. I just want to prove that there are enough internal reserves, so I'm talking about finance, and I hope that, of course, every other Member works by first teaching and then, of course, providing evidence. That's why. And it's not about any enlargement, we're not going to talk about any VAT or anything else. Here it was found in this case that a broadcast was broadcast that was not broadcast at all. If we move forward, irregularities such as [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u43	Mr. Hear, I must warn you this time, and I must warn you this second time that you are not discussing the amendment. The law itself speaks of the fact that the RTV contribution is not being raised, so it remains at the level it is, and I ask you to remain at the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u44	Dear President, we are proposing only that the RTV contribution should be reduced, and if I want to prove that tons of money have been confused in the past into some completely irrational pockets, why we must then additionally burden ourselves on the basis of this taxpayer. That's all I'm talking about. And if after counting some numbers now, because obviously I can't all – yesterday I had a question for the Minister, what could we do with this money in the field of media workers. How many employees in the media are now forced into espies and barely survive from month to month, how much money could, say, then also the public agency earmarked for paid traineeships for young journalists. Given that the possibility of discussion is rather limited to me, I will then re-apply, but it is based on the fact that there is sufficient resources already in the current structure, the public institution is operating on profits, in a number of cases even unjustifiable Christmases have been paid and I do not know why then all taxpayers should pay the reward to those who do not do their job well enough or are not rational enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's still an interest. I'd like to invite you to the hearing. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. President, first of all, I think you've been mistaken in the debate of my colleague Couch, Andre Couch. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u47	You have a procedural, Mrs. Jeraj, or a debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u48	No, it's not procedural. It's a debate. I'll tell you why I'm talking about it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u49	Then I suggest you discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u50	Look, the things he was talking about, they're very concerned with the amendment. Our Public Finance Supervisory Commission has discussed the revision of the procedures that are taking place on RTV, all of which is linked to the money we are talking about. Our amendment speaks of a lower contribution at a time when economic growth exceeds 2.5% of GDP [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u51	That's right. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u52	So, we're talking about finance and it's connected to the amendment. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u53	No, no. Stay with what's written in the contents, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u54	Look, we're talking about finance on RTV, and I think this has something to do with this amendment that we've proposed. If you can't see the connection, that's not my problem. So the fact that the contribution was regulated in the marriage is fine, we have no problem with it, but we could fix something else. Although the Minister has announced a new RTV law, I hope that he will go this way, that he will actually give more powers to the Director. We have now found, in the framework of the already mentioned audit, that we have considered that many small bosses who work on RTV in their own way are also planning, i.e. planning revenue, expenditure, that is to say income, or not, expenditure in general, which usually exceeds what was agreed on, and the Director himself said that these things are not affected. There are many initiatives and proposals, including petitions to stop the RTV contribution. We are aware that this is not going to work, so we are also proposing an amendment that when economic growth exceeds 2.5% of GDP, the contribution could be reduced in this case. Why we still have a problem with the contribution and we have already proposed a change on the committee. If I give you one of the health cases we heard last time. There is no point in adding new blood to someone whose blood is draining, but the first thing to do is to cover the holes from which the blood is draining. That's what's happening to us on RTV. Let me remind you of the anonymity and then the revision, and as I said, we have even dealt with this on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, and in fact it will then be in the eyes of the Commission that, in the face of such irregularities as have been identified, leadership pays off its work performance. You can pay off your work performance when you're really working, not when you're doing a lot of things wrong in your office. As mentioned, broadcasts that do not exist are being paid, and broadcasts that have a lot of ratings, etc. are cancelled. And someone [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u55	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, look, we're not discussing the report, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u56	We are not considering this. [[…]] We are considering the amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u57	we are discussing your amendment and in respect of your amendment, please remain with the content. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u58	I'm talking about the amendment, if I'm talking about finance, because that means either RTV will have so many millions of contributions or it'll have less. Are these finances or are they not finance, as referred to in Article 4?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u59	You can talk about it and stay with this content about finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u60	President, I don't know why you have such a problem talking about RTV or not talking here for the twenty minutes that we have at our disposal, you'll probably be able to endure any criticism. In short, if we give as much money as we give it to the institution as we do to the institution and with what they create, we don't have to do any rationalisation, we don't have to look at where the reserves are, we don't have to do things differently, so they cost less, so they're more effective. People want a better program. As I said earlier, leadership has a lot of problems with what it offers or how it regulates things in RTV. He shuts down the shows, pays the broadcasts that he doesn't have, and we pay it with contributions, so we need to talk about this amendment. In recent times, there have been many more repetitions than before; in short, programmes less for the same money or even bigger. Of course, viewers and listeners are difficult, if we are paying for something, we want something to get for it. I hope that the amendment of the law will also go forward in order to see perhaps publicly the meetings of the Programme Council. There are called people who talk about the program, the program is being paid – we are back in finance. And probably, if you could play, so if you could see what is happening in the programming world, what are the views of the members who are there representing the viewers and who have been appointed by the viewers, we might understand why, as we say, shows that are very viewed are being cut short and some who are less viewed. [[…]] We also miss the views of the Ombudsman. I am sure that when we receive Members of Parliament's comments and suggestions when we talk about the RTV Act, that even in the RTV House they are serious about the comments of viewers, audiences and listeners coming to the Ombudsman, this institution is finally established. So, a good program, a regulated situation on RTV, not the exploitation of part-time part-time employees due to a misdemeanour or a poor part of some regular employees. I think there's still too much family connection. We are very happy to talk about the children of politicians, but that there are certain services on RTV from generation to generation, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u61	Mrs Jeraj, I warned you earlier that we are not talking today about the report on the operation of the institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u62	And no speech. [[…]] In short, the amendment to Article 4 proposed in the SDS will be supported, because I think that only by reducing the RTV contribution at some point in time will it reduce the resources that RTV receives, will it force the public institution to reorganise itself, to be more careful about the costs and that, as I said, blood or money does not leak out uncontrolledly, but is being used for what should be used, i.e. for a better programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Social Democrats' Group of the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support it. This is only a variant of attempts to reduce the RTV contribution, which we have witnessed several times in the past, most recently when the government of Ivan Janša proposed a 10% reduction in the RTV contribution and the RTV contribution was reduced by 5% in the last reading. Why do we oppose the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party? We believe that we must take into account the recommendations made by the Constitutional Court, which requires us to provide stable sources of public service funding on behalf of the founder. The public service is defined in the law and I do not want to interfere with the programme scheme or decisions of the Programme Council, but if no financial resources are provided, it is not possible to carry out the public service to the extent envisaged. It is therefore necessary to adapt the programme scheme and programme, which must also be taken into account by the Programme Council and the RTV Supervisory Board. It is therefore a matter of providing financial resources for the stable financing of the public service. The public service is legally, once again, and I stress that an exclusive right of judgment on the quality of the programme has not been given to the legislator. The programme, the content, the programme scheme are discussed by the RTV internal authorities. Therefore, it is irresponsible to expect that the public service will be carried out in a qualitative manner if we reduce its financial resources. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Constitutional Court has already said several times about what an RTV contribution should and should not be used for. Therefore, this version of the reduction of the RTV contribution is as unacceptable as the unacceptable calls for civil disobedience and non-payment of the RTV contribution. That's what's behind these initiatives. However, what needs to be said in this context is a very questionable argument, and if this amendment is to be discussed, reference should also be made to public opinion polls on the extent to which the public is satisfied with the performance of the public service. For us, that is, for the Social Democrats, it is unacceptable to lower the RTV contribution. However, if anyone already refers to the Commission's conclusions on public finances supervision, the decision adopted by this Commission is only a proposal for a decision that does not allow for an increase. The amendment, however, reduces and the law leaves RTV a contribution in the amount to which the RTV contribution has been established so far. Once again, the Commission's decision on the supervision of public finances is against increasing the RTV contribution and the SDS amendment demands or proposes a reduction – a completely unacceptable proposal for the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly! At least what I would expect, Mr President, to allow - if you allow those who debate in the National Assembly to argue why they do not support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party - to allow those who are also discussing and advocating this amendment. And please do not interrupt them when they explain why the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled this amendment to this law. Please, now I've listened to a debater who's been saying a lot of other things that aren't directly tied up in a way that you're explaining the amendment. But the Slovenian Democratic Party and our debates and debaters have no right and do not allow them to explain why we tabled this amendment! And please do not be so double-minded and allow us to prove and tell why this amendment is important and why the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled it. Let the Slovenian public hear the truth! Why are you trying to prevent our debaters in every way and interfering with the word every two minutes or every minute? Mr President of the National Assembly, I must say that at least I expect you to be consistent with what you are doing and that you will respect the democratic debate in the National Assembly. Let us also explain with arguments why we have proposed such an amendment, not to be interrupted at all times. I very much ask and procedurally suggest that you treat all the debaters in the National Assembly in the same way, regardless of the parties they come from, because this is not a political debate, I am sure, but it is a debate where it is right that everyone has the right to argue why he advocates or why it is against this amendment that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But I am confident that this amendment is put in with good intentions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Pojbich, for your warning. But, look again: when I also read your explanation, i.e. the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, to this amendment, you are in fact summarizing the same content of the text in the amendment. So you have already focused specifically on this content as your own proponents. I also want to warn you in this procedure, which is why I've warned you about this. If you expected me to break the mag, too. Majdo Potrato, I must admit that in this assessment she was significantly closer to the contribution than to the discussions that I had raised before. I really urge you to try to follow the explanation. I agree, however, that it is true for all Members and Members, regardless of which groups of Members come from which, however, the Rules of Procedure are respected, because it is very clear when it comes to the amendment, that a debate on the content of the amendment is allowed. The replica has Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. In some of your words, given that you have even made a historical review of the operation of RTV and the decision in the National Assembly, I have not seen much. As far as history is concerned, I fully understand your decision not to support this, because it was you, months or years ago, who thought that economic growth was a negative thing. I hope now you see where this leads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you. However, it would be better if we applied for the debate, Mr Chuš, and there would be no difficulty in providing these content. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would also like to be included in this debate on the amendment to Article 4 of the bill. I was particularly encouraged by the discussions of some who I cannot fully agree with. I must say or repeat that RTV Slovenia is a public institution and that the public institution is financed from the state budget and other resources, the legal resources provided by this law as well. I must say that the recommendation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia should be taken into account, which also mentions that the founder must provide adequate funding to public institutions or public services. I do not think that if the founder provides the appropriate amount of funds, then the public institution RTV Slovenia cannot provide citizens with the appropriate programme we all want. Mrs Novak said in her position that she was sorry that some shows were no longer being abolished. I am very much in favour of this opinion, and I think that, above all, these two shows she mentioned would be appropriate and for me, for my taste, to bring them back. But that is the case; if there is not enough money, then the program is broken or the broadcasts are cut short. I would also say that — someone today also pointed out that the awards were paid to individual executives. I also do not agree with this that this is how the public office operates, and I believe that we should take care of more regular employees and that we should also take care of hiring trainees. However, like the rest of the coalition, the DeSUS Group will, of course, reject this amendment because we do not think it is appropriate. If there is a later possibility that RTV can be financed from the budget to a greater extent, then I think we should discuss amending or supplementing the RTV contribution Act. So I repeat that if there is no money, it is difficult to provide such a program and in the end I would point out a river that we all know: a little money, a little music. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you, too. I give my word first to the Minister, Dr. Urosh Griltz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u72	Your Honor! In my performance, I will indeed adhere exclusively to the content of this amendment, and I must remind the esteemed Member of the Council that yesterday he asked me the question of whether we will form a new media law and the law on RTV on the basis of a strategy and an accurate analysis of the media landscape and operation in our space and my answer was: "Yes, we have committed ourselves to this also in the National Programme for Culture." Just a day later, we have an amendment on the table that interferes with the system-based payment of the subscription and the financing of the public service. It was said, of course, that we are talking here about a specific public institution, a special law whose funding is regulated in a manner that is also confirmed by the Constitutional Court that this funding is necessarily about the responsibility of the founder not only in terms of the level of funding, but also in terms of internal organisation, programme autonomy and so on. If we draw a very clear line on what such an amendment proposes, it brings, then we must say that it reduces the amount of RTV contribution by about 21%, which means 20 million. Look, 21% to 20 million. The justification given by the SDS party is 8 lines, 8 lines for such an intervention in financing. What does this reduction mean for the quality of the programme? There's not a word here. What does this mean for the quality of the show that has been highlighted? What does this mean for RTV’s external partners — who, as you know, are extremely important for us to have a variety of programs, to have a quality program, and that people also have a job? What does that mean for a thousand 900 employees in a public office at 20 million? Such an analysis is nowhere, and I must say, such a proposal does not really have any real justification, is highly non-systemic and is appropriately very dangerous. It implies economic growth, of course, but listen, we are talking about a public service that must have a certain stability. If the state commits itself to having, by law and by law, such a public service which is of public interest – I agree, everyone bears its responsibility, how and what this is done, but such a flat-rate intervention, non-systemic intervention in its operation means only worse for the functioning of public service and worse for viewers and listeners. That's why I don't think this amendment is really appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you, too, Minister. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Although I have become accustomed to being attributed to me by the opposition Members all kinds of statements. I experienced this yesterday in the context of the parliamentary issues, again today at this amendment. I have not said a word about economic growth that would allow for the interpretation given in the replica. So I expect those who want to deal with my views to show a little less creative tension and attribute to me what I haven't said. The amendment before us only refers to economic growth. It wants to lower the RTV contribution and return it to the current level when economic growth is 2.5%; without any calculation of the consequences, without anything. I am already used to the fact that the drafters of the SDS Group speak one thing when they speak in general and another what they propose. But look, in the same breath, when they advocate the employment of young journalists, their proposals go in the direction of reducing the number of employees on RTV. Such cases of non-conformity, nonconsistency could be further proven. What does the amendment say? Nothing but that RTV contribution must be tied to economic growth by 2.5%. When she's like this, then, I don't know at what height, she'll be able to raise her RTV contribution. With today's novel, we are raising RTV's contribution to a law in which it is possible to vary RTV's contribution by 10%, but only by 10% and it has to be justified; and this option is indeed given to the Government. I repeat, however, that the Constitutional Court has specifically warned that we must take care of stable sources of funding and that it is justified to reduce or withdraw only if we substitute something else for the possibility of public service in the marriage text, as is the case with the law. This is the Constitutional Court's warning to the legislator and I think that the legislator is free or that the Constitutional Court's opinion must be respected. I know that for minority programmes or for the Hungarian and Italian national communities, the legislator is obliged to provide funds from the budget to allow RTV to carry out market activities, to be the main source and for me at an appropriate level – as proposed by this amendment, that is, at the same level as last year's RTV contribution. Now tying RTV to the satisfaction or dissatisfaction of viewers and viewers of the RTV program is an arbitrary decision-making. He doesn't have any serious grounds. And so was the amendment to this article at the meeting of the parent working body. There, for those of you who have not followed this, RTV could pay 100 % more and those who are dissatisfied would pay 50% less. These are the SDS proposals. How much weight do they have, how serious, how much analytical support to ensure stability of funding are you to judge? We are talking about an amendment that requires a reduction of the RTV contribution without any justification! All that is said in the explanatory statement is what is said in the amendment: it is linked to growth and is linked to the categories where it decreases. Please understand that such an amendment cannot be supported, that you have only opened up room with this amendment to discuss the things you want to talk about and are past the amendment. However, I do not know how this amendment can be discussed substantively if we do not point out that as legislators we are obliged to ensure the stability of funding, because the only stable funding also ensures editorial autonomy and independence. And that's the legislator's job, that's all. I do not want you to interfere again with the powers of the Programme and Supervisory Council. And we have in our hands a decision on the amount of RTV contribution and I remind you of that. Let us not be deaf to warnings from the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I will not support this amendment in particular because, by reducing funds, we would not do anything good about RTV Slovenia. A very good and professional debate took place at the Committee itself. That is where the proposer came with another amendment already mentioned by colleague Potrate. Today they have come back again and with one amended amendment, where they want to reduce their contribution. The proposaler himself, as well as the representative of RTV Slovenia, said that reducing the contribution would seriously compromise the operation of Radiotelevision, not only programmes, but also those accompanying activities that RTV Slovenia also carries out. Finally, there's a symphony orchestra here, etc. In a situation like this, we are all aware that the economic situation is difficult, but in such a situation, television also has problems, because by advertising and other activities it generates significantly less money for its activity than it has previously received. That would jeopardize the operation, in addition to this amendment. The amendment has no analytical idea, nothing profound and nothing serious about what would happen and what would happen if 20 million were missing. That's why I can't take this amendment seriously. My colleague said we don't make political decisions here. Of course we are, because we're all politicians. If we didn't make political decisions in the National Assembly, then I don't know what we're doing here. This is a political decision, and we must look not only at ourselves and at our political points, because it would be the easiest thing, as my colleague Meršol said in Positive Slovenia, that we in Positive Slovenia would say that without RTV contribution we will try to ensure the operation of RTV Slovenia. You wouldn't! There's no way to do that. For this reason, in Positive Slovenia, as well as ourselves, we advocate a serious analytical assessment to give effect to all these organised groups operating in RTV Slovenia, this is the Programme Council, which has made clear what would have happened if there were no funds: certain programmes should be cut down or cancelled and could not have been, certain activities should have been reduced. Look, given that certain programs are being shut down. Of course, it changes because it is just like life; one stops working, the other becomes and so on. I trust RTV Slovenia and I appreciate their work, and I must say that in the environment where I come from, people are satisfied with this program, they are satisfied with the educational program, with the cultural programme that RTV Slovenia offers to citizens and citizens. That is why I cannot, indeed, support this amendment because it is a good programme for me because it is for me that people in Slovenia will see a good and quality program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you. Reploco wants Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u78	Dear Mr. President! That is all; I am sure that we are deciding here in the interests of our people, the interests of the Slovenian people, and how this is understood by someone, that is his business. That's all I was talking about. The fact is, I'm not paying for anything I'm not happy with. Those who are aware and aware of this should also think and debate in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pojbich, but look, you've abused the replica now. Normally you can apply to the debate and get a word. You replicated, but you actually couldn't tell whether you'd ever been misunderstood. You really had a word in the replica before, but the replica on the replica is not possible anyway, so I really recommend you apply to the word and you will discuss the amendment. And this replica was practically unwarranted. I give the word to Mr. Joseph Jerovska, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Look, we all know what's going on in our country, that personal income has already been reduced several times for all public workers, to threaten new reductions in personal income, to reduce services as a result, the price of services. And RTV is on the same ship; if they are good hosts, they reach lower prices of services, which is perfectly normal, because also all contractors expect to earn something less than they did in the past. Our amendment is a logical consequence of what is happening in the country, what is the situation. Citizens who are contracting television programs can no longer pay for less. Because the fact is that the volume of own production of RTV has decreased during the current management of the public institution. They have cut production, but they want to cover it with higher costs. That's not working. I also marvel at this government and this authority and this leadership of RTV, because it does not know or realize the old Roman proverb, that people should be given bread and games — Mr et circesses. The government has taken bread, taken it every day to new people, brought it into poverty and probably some into hunger, and at the same time takes away games, which is illogical, but unfortunately this is one proof of the total incompetence and incompetence of the current government. Look, I'm not going to argue with Mrs Potrat either, because when she's cholerous to our proposals, it's the best argument of our proposals that we're right. There's no better ad. So, yeah. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u81	Mr Jerovšek, in this debate that I followed, there was no bile, but at least a mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u82	Good. What I see in the field and that, I said. See, some of you object to the fact that there has been no reduction in production, that the show has not been discontinued. I have pointed out the case several times before, during the summer of RTV he was unable to do a monthly and Sunday interview. A couple hundred reporters! They have great young journalists. They just don't let them in. Now somehow the principal has taken over the role of doing interviews. I'm not going to comment because I read the opinion of a good acquaintance, a publicist named Crnkovich, who said that what she was doing now was her threshold that she couldn't do any higher. And I'm not going to mention the names of the interviewees. This was recorded in the previous Saturday’s annex to Acts. I believe that such lucid publicists also ensure that they do not let the right people on the right shows to do a good program. So it would be possible to print out significantly more, because there is no such desire in this RTV leadership, he thinks that by non-production people are sleeping, but the rule is that we are all on the same ship. RTV management should ensure that costs are reduced – say what they order – to demand lower costs. But not what we hear is that contracts are made under the table, but sometimes there is a fictitious payment, but that employees still have dead souls. It's a stop. Now I see from this argument that this is not even the interest of this coalition and this government in order to settle the situation. No! No! You want anarchy. You want a mess. You want to reduce the production of the program [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u83	Mr Jerovšek, here at this point I must remind you once again that you deviate substantially from the content of the amendment. You also know that the RTV office has the decision-makers, the control of the operation, and that we are not considering the report today. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u84	Discuss in due course, please. Mr. President, you disappoint me again. We're both in our fifth term and you're trying to block the argument. This amendment is so when you talk about the program, every argument is constructive and normal. I'm surprised you're doing this. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u85	Mr Jerovšek, I suggest you read the explanation of your amendment, and you will understand much more why I must warn you. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u86	No, you warned me unjustly, Mr. President. Unjustified! I think you take the reputation of breaking up a Member with the same length of internship and taking his word. I'm gonna finish now. I said, and once again I insist that it is logical that, when all costs have been reduced, personal incomes have been reduced, the same amount or reduced amount of the programme should also be reduced so that citizens do not suffer enormously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's still an interest. I invite you to report. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u88	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is very clear, simple and logical, as the amount of RTV subscribes to economic growth. I will not discuss the contents, because I am not of this profession and I do not know this area. But I am very well aware of the finances and we all know very well that the economy brings revenue into the state budget, that the soft content directly linked to the budget creates expenditure from the state budget. The current government is taking the job of an economy with a significant reduction of funds for both investments, it is said that it is taking the job of the economy. This does not generate revenue into the state budget. Taking funds for investments to municipalities, no work for the economy, no revenue for the state budget. He takes up the work of certain economic public bodies. In particular, yesterday we discussed the forestry public service, the supply of wood in the economy is disrupted. In short, economic productivity in this sector is declining, revenue in the state budget is declining. On the other hand, illogically, we unreasonablely increase expenditure, expenditure on soft content. We increase expenditure on culture, we increase expenditure on social public institutions, which are directly and exclusively linked to the state budget. These two things are not in balance – if there is no economic growth, if there is no growth, an increase in revenue in the budget, there can also be no rise in expenditure from the state budget. This is a very simple and very logical matter. In this segment, in the amendment to Article 4, it is perfectly logical that expenditure should be linked to economic growth or to revenue in the state budget. The story is simple and logical, if this simple, logical principle is not taken into account, the other way out is simply the collapse of the country. This is said to be an unreasonable increase in expenditure and, on the other hand, a reduction in income. What's the delta? Let me answer what the "delta" is like – very clear and very principled, we all know it very well in Slovenia. In fact, revenue with expenditure needs to be adjusted in an equivalent manner. This is said to be true if income is lower, expenditure should also be reduced. This is what our amendment to Article 4 speaks of as regards the RTV contribution. There is no logic or other philosophy here, in short, a balance of public finances. To this example, this logic is addressed by the amendment to Article 4, which I will also support.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Žnidar. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We are repeating an exercise, overplayed before a time ago, how to lower the RTV Slovenia subscription. However, we must be aware that we are interfering with the constitutionally guaranteed position of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, Article 39 clearly states this, and that we must maintain television in a way that will please people. Someone said before that we must protect the interest of the Slovenian people. Yeah, what are we doing? We are not for berlusconism, we are not only for Spanish symphony on TV, but we also need symphony concerts, Big gangs, we need sports events, we need political broadcasts and so on, and that is what RTV Slovenia offers us. Therefore, I will not support this amendment, because by reducing the subscription we would contribute to the ability of some other, competitive televisions, those who do not have this mission, such as RTV Slovenia, to raise the Slovenian people below. There will never be a POP TV show for school youth or anything like that. These are broadcasts that have to be seen, not in all populations, but in most people. I think we should talk about giving people bread and games – these times are over. The Slovenian nation needs a lot more, and when we talk about games, we don't think – I know, the symbolism is in this – but we won't hide the eyes of the population by just giving them some games. If we only watch last night's television, because there have been many more contributions from this state parliament about the opposition's performances than there have been positions. And you say RTV Slovenia is on the left side and such nonsense! I think we need to take care of RTV Slovenia, allow it to work well, and require it to work well and also to check how this money is spent; and we have the appropriate authorities to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlishich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment, like everyone else, of course, can be supported and some will also support it. Indeed, news of much more drastic measures in this area, such as the amendment proposed by the SDS, is coming from countries with similar economic trends to Slovenia. I am not a proponent of such drastic measures as these countries have taken, which have similar economic trends, but I still cannot agree that we can never do anything. If there's nothing we can do, then what are we even doing in this house? Public funds in Slovenia are shrinking, and this is a fact and they are also shrinking due to the increasing indebtedness of the country and the associated interest. And if public funds are shrinking, we need to do something about it, and this "something to do" must not only mean that we are more collecting taxpayers and businesses, but we must be willing to do something else. This reduction in public funds is not the only reason. Here we need to take care of one more matter: that the public resources we are using, which we are collecting from citizens, are also being used as usefully as possible. These public funds, less than they are, we need to spend them more usefully. Here I refer to what my colleague Chuš mentioned, to these suspicions that these funds are not being used as they would have been, and that this public institution has a few more internal reserves that could be used for this purpose, so that these funds could be earmarked for a better programme that we do not doubt, we all want. And this is not only true for RTV SLO, it is not only for public funds collected through taxes, but also for public funds, for example, from the European Union that we receive. There, too, we are faced with the use and use of these funds, which are otherwise spent, but they are not used in such a way as to have a very large effect or benefit. In short, it is high time that where there are some suspicions that funds are not being used most effectively, that we react to this properly and that these tentacles are somehow closed, because we have too many tentacles, through which this public money is leaking, public funds, which are precious, which we have increasingly reduced, and we need to start using it more and more usefully. In short, not only are we silently looking at some reports and audit evaluations, but we also react with concrete actions to the fact that we do not like it and that the consumer of public funds needs to spend these funds more usefully. I think we're all for having a good public TV program and a good program needs money. That's a fact. But I'm sorry, the source of this money isn't just new contributions, and in this case, we're not talking about some raise that we're on the clear side. I understand, we keep it on the same level with this, and with this amendment, we're lowering it a little bit. It is decreasing in this way as many others have been reduced elsewhere in the budget. Of course, the SDS amendment he proposed is not ideal. I'd rather not be conditional. In fact, these conditional increases, what we will do once economic growth has gone beyond 2.5%, we slowly pick them up — things like this — a little bit there. In the end, we will experience this economic growth and we will be fusing a bunch of outflows, and then we will meet that this economic growth is not actually positive at all, because we will have a bunch of negative consequences. So here I would really like to point out this conditionality that we are all over-used, what we are going to do one day when the good times come again. And this reduction may be too radical. Perhaps we would reduce this reduction a little bit, but we do have such a proposal, but if there's any will, there's probably something else we can do about it. I'd also like to replicate to my colleague Brultz that POP TV will never have a TV show for young people. I don't know if you're watching anything from Channel A, but Channel A has one show called S.H.I.E.L.D. Youth Sports. Last year it was called a little different, but this year it is a sport of young people, so commercial stations also see their interests in such areas. Now let's leave the quality, but I'll say, of course, there are such shows on other TVs. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. It's mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that, while thinking that all expenditure, both by the state and by the private sector of citizens, should be linked to economic growth, is basically the right thing to do. I don't know what kind of computer we could have. This means that if there are two, three children in the family who have a father and a mother who are employed, who have two, three children, who have their wages reduced or even lost their salaries, we have substantially reduced our salaries in the public sector, even in the economic sector, and then we do not know by which mathematical formula we expect them to pay more or no more. This means that basically thinking that all expenditure, private and state expenditure, must be tied to economic growth, is the right thing to do. It would also be right for Members to think about tying their salaries to economic growth, because I have heard the right opinion, I quote, "as legislators we are obliged to ensure a stable source of funding". That is true: the economy is a stable source of funding for the country. This is not a debt – what we have been doing in recent years – but a positive economic growth. Now we have a negative or otherwise, we make a loss every year. So that's the right thing to do. That's the way it is in the private sector. A stable source of funding will be available to our citizens when the salaries increase slightly each year, and now we are happy to lower them. In this way, I believe that the dilemma in the form of writing can be in individual concrete solutions, but it is essentially not possible to challenge this idea, so that RTV could also contribute well to economic growth. Here, in our assessment of the financial implications of the proposed law on the state budget and other public funds in the law, we have written that there are no consequences. Be careful, we are a parliament, we are also responsible – or we should be responsible – for the situation in the country in general, that is to say, we can't care whether people can pay for RTV contributions or not how they live, etc. And if we load up a few extra loads each time, but, of course, we lower their wages, then it's not much of an assessment of our excellent work. We have raised the vignettes, raised the VAT, raised the administrative fees, we have raised the right amount of taxes, and energy prices are among the highest in Europe and so on. That is to say, we are not a country that could boast that we have an appropriate or good tax policy. So I think it might be good for the position and opposition to change this amendment in nuances, but basically this would be a good way of thinking in this House. I just hope that when the current opposition is back in power, it will have the same thinking. For it is interesting that when the current position was in opposition, it had the same thinking that the present opposition has. I don't know what happens, but when we get to power, let's forget that all people should have conditions for a normal life. At that time, the current position was, in principle, against wage cuts, against tax increases and so on, and this is changing rapidly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u96	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues! I do not know why there is so much bad will on the part of certain members of the coalition, but I believe that the transition or coalition at the RTV point is very angry when any amendments arrive at the parliamentary bench. We by this law or through this amendment do not in any way break the Constitutional Court's decision, we do not terminate the public institution of RTV Slovenia, as it may be heard from certain words of colleagues, especially from the party SD and also from the Group of Positive Slovenia. This public institution of RTV Slovenia makes both good and bad decisions, and at the very least this political or professional. It is difficult to talk about the fact that the policy on the operation and functioning of RTV has no effect, but only recently, when we have elected the Program Council and the Supervisory Council of RTV Slovenia, where we gave the politicians, in particular the current political coalition, full authority over RTV Slovenia. You could descend into what viewers can expect, say, in the field of sports, in the field of culture, what they are satisfied with, what they are not satisfied with. I believe that even if we had a subscription of EUR 50, there would probably be no less advertisements, but probably no more world football championships on RTV Slovenia than we currently have. In short, people pay everything that this political leadership RTV Slovenia burns. On the other hand, we have a lot of evidence to show about the violations found, about the poor performance, about the excessive number of employees and so on, but we must not talk about it, we must not find and say anything, because it is political pressure on RTV Slovenia, if it is carried out by those who are in such a state with RTV Slovenia as it is, they are not fully satisfied. Personally, I think the internal reserves within the public office are large and can be found. Of course, if we come from the context of ensuring the stability of spending, regardless of the content, by taxpayers, I believe that some are on such trenches to defend public or their institution RTV Slovenia. The amendment is very well-intentioned, not radical, as a fellow citizen has previously said, could be even more radical. I must say that, in fact, this amendment is not radical to us, even to proposers, but perhaps a little divisive, because if this government continues to rule for a few years, I believe that this amendment will never live in practice, because 2.5% of GDP growth in Slovenia is just yet – and I will borrow the words of one of the Members – 'wet dreams' which are probably at least in this mandate, and probably not in any other mandate. In short, the content will remain what it is, even if we accept an even more radical amendment than it is on the table today. Advertising will not be any less, but the professional or political function of RTV Slovenia or its leadership will be no less. Perhaps even a sentence regarding the non-systemic approach that we have heard today. Interestingly, this comes from, or from, members of the coalition when they speak of a non-systemic approach. Then, at least half of the laws we passed in 2013 and also the outline in 2014 could be removed from the agenda of the National Assembly, since most of the laws are without some analytical support, without some systemic solutions, but there are some ad hoc solutions that satisfy a particular crowd. I am pleased that, at least apparently, certain Members of this coalition are still monitoring such economic growth, monitoring the international situation and supporting this amendment. Let me get this straight. Previously it was said that ratings are a questionable argument about when we decide when we talk about RTV Slovenia. Then we turn off RTV Slovenia and let's go to commercial television and it will be the easiest for everyone. Because if ratings are not in a public institution such as RTV Slovenia, then I really wonder how to imagine this leadership or this RTV operation. It is interesting that the most viewed shows, which had only a tiny moment when people could really feel that they were part of this RTV service, but they're shutting down. On the other hand, we have a lot of shows where they are employed with big salaries, which for a little bit of effort get a big stake, and on the other hand we have just those who work a lot and earn less. I have to say that I was very rarely on RTV Slovenia, but when I was talking in these hallways and elevators, or driving mainly with people who are part-time employees, and I told almost everyone when I heard that he was part-time, how good it would be if those who are part-time employees would become regular employees and many of the regular employees would be fired, they agreed, but they said that we should not, or especially they should not speak publicly. In short, RTV Slovenia has a huge opportunity to improve. This amendment, even if not adopted according to the state of the coalition, may be only a fraction that certain people in RTV decide to better operate their programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. It is clear that the founder must provide money, but not if this money is untransparently spent. Honorary employees were given paid leave, sick leave and so on, as you know it is contrary to the labour legislation and so on. Equipment that normally costs one piece of 300 euros was purchased for EUR 2 000 200 and is not used at all. This is 172 contributions, or because they were purchased by eight pieces, that is, 1,570 contributions. See, we propose that the contribution for natural persons be reduced to EUR 10 when economic growth is 2.5%. Let me remind you that we had such economic growth – 6.9% when it was the highest – in 2007, when Janša's government was, and then it was only falling during the destructive governments of Pahor and now Mrs Bratuškova, when we are at -2.4%. This year maybe we'll get to 0.8 next year 0.4, so 2.5% won't be able to see soon. Would that be the right signal? [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jeraj. I also ask those who have time to debate if they want to debate. Mrs. Potts called. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you. In view of the discussions in the final round, let me reiterate. The proposed novel retains the level of RTV contribution at the same level as now. So it doesn't raise it. However, we are opposed to reducing the RTV contribution. And all those who point to a poor social situation, especially the unemployed and other vulnerable groups – these payments of RTV contributions are exempt. This social component is therefore taken into account in the contribution. Although it would have been better of will if there were those who did not have to ask for exemption, less, because it would have meant that the social picture in Slovenia is better, but the fact is that the law in force with all the provisions it has, as some speak of the political influence that was envisioned by the then Janša government. This law is called the Grimes ’ Law and what are the authorities called, to look at some in the law, why they are called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm concluding the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of documentary and archiving buildings. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u102	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome once again! The Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives fully regulates the protection of documentary and archival material in physical and electronic form. The law was adopted in 2006, and it has done a great deal to monitor documentary and archival material and to take care of the material before it was taken over. A major step in this direction has taken place at the level of technological development. This required a response from the archives and was reflected in all the chapters of the then law on capture, storage and handling of digital content. A major change in the legislation was also followed by an adjustment in public archives, mainly in the Republic of Slovenia Archives. The requirements of the archival law have been achieved with regard to awareness and care for such material, both for creators and service providers. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia, as a national archive, has acquired the role of regulator in this area by entrusting it with the management of the register of equipment and services providers and by carrying out procedures to assess the conformity of internal rules, equipment and services, so-called accreditations, with the requirements of the law. After 7 years of implementation of the provisions of the law and administrative practice, it has been shown that the law is urgently needed in some segments to be radically and thoroughly updated. Preparations for amendments to the law have been under way since 2009, and they have started to take place more intensively in 2012 and my performance at the Ministry has been the appointment of an expert committee in the composition of mags. Nada Chibej, Dr Jelka Milik, Jože Dežman, Matthew Zavrl, Štefka Korada Purg and Mag. Nina Zupančič Pušavec, who, in a broad public debate in cooperation with all tenderers, drafted a proposal for amendments. Of course, the spirit of the basic law remains the same and some very important changes are being introduced. I'm just going to split them into four sets. It's your own protection of the archive material. The proposal for a novel against the creator, who would like to carry out his own protection of the archive material, sets out a number of clear requirements. Self-protection means that a public entity under the supervision of a competent archive will actually carry out a public archiving service. The authorisation shall be issued only on the basis of sound professional and technical reasons. The transfer of archive material from the permanent collection to its own storage, to the archive, must be documented, and the provisions of the proposed law shall also apply after transfer with regard to access and use. The material of political parties and societies acting in the public interest – an important novelty. This material has an important historical value and it is right to allow it to be stored and accessible in the relevant archives. In societies, because of crowds, you know that a country of many societies with a very rich activity will mean a lot of work for the relevant archives. A certain valorisation will need to be carried out, and this will also be followed when the material is taken over. The most extensive innovation related to technological development is far more detailed and important than digital material. Here, technological development and development have also led us to the fact that change is urgent, if not urgent. The practice has shown that the law in force so far by means of procedures for the validation and assessment of internal rules and the granting of accreditations works harshly, that it is extremely complex, that it is also expensive for the budget and that it is very late. By means of the novelty law, we simplify the procedures for assessing and certifying internal rules and accreditations. The current law stipulated that the Slovenian Archives also confirmed internal rules for the private sector. The Novela only violates this obligation on public entities and providers of equipment and services, and, of course, enables private individuals to use the Archives of Slovenia as a service if they so wish. But it's no longer mandatory. The adoption of internal rules is mandatory for the authorities of the State Administration, but does not need to be made available for approval by the State Archives. And the key change that is ahead of you and which is, of course, also the media most receptive, Amendments 65, 66 and 66 on the availability of archive material. Here, honourable Members, I must first thank you for not politicising the adoption of this law; for you have clearly understood that these amendments provide clear access to archives, to re-establish the set of sensitive data, to lay down rules, as the archival commission has also stressed. And I would like this spirit to be the subject of a debate, as it did on the committee, without a vote against the proposed changes. It is time for policy to unify at least with regard to access to our archive material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture as a work mother. I'm giving the president a word. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives was discussed by the Committee on Culture at its 7th regular session on 14 January this year. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The legislative and legal service has examined the law submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and has made comments on Article 22 from a legislative and technical point of view. On the proposal for a law, the National Assembly held a general discussion at its 19th regular meeting on 27 November 2013 and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. On 11 December 2013, the Committee held a public presentation of opinions aimed at obtaining opinions and views from the professional and general public on the draft law. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. The oral opinion was presented by Dr. Zoran Bozič. The Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc, initially said that the proposal for a law would regulate the more important differences that apply to public and private persons with regard to the adoption and validation of internal rules. Procedures for checking the conformity of machinery with the requirements of the law will be streamlined and procedures for checking the conformity of equipment and services will be regulated in the light of the actual implementation of the procedure. The protection of the material of political parties and legal persons acting in the public interest and the protection of the archive material for public entities will be regulated. The conditions of access to archival material, deadlines of inaccessibility, exceptional access and exceptional extension of the deadlines for the non-availability of archival material will also be regulated. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented their opinion and said that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups followed their opinion, and she had some comments on some of the articles of the bill. The discussion focused on the deadlines for the non-availability of archival material. Some discussers said that the proponent did not sufficiently explain the reasons why, in the proposed amendment to Article 65, the time limit for non-availability of material containing personal data on health, sexual life, punishment, religious belief and the like is extended from 75 years from the date of creation to 80 years. They considered that this could relate to data on the extension of the average life expectancy and, on the other hand, this change in the lengthening of some data from the period of World War II and the postwar period, which is unacceptable. The Ministry explained that the novel introduces uniform accessibility conditions for all archival materials, i.e. independent of the creator who created the material and the equal protection of the privacy of sensitive personal data before and after the date of 17 May 1990. With this novel, there is a wide range of available materials, since so far the general availability of archive material has been applied only to some creators and is now extended to other public entities. Some discussions were also held with regard to the professional regulation and recording of the archival material of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, the anonymisation of copies of documents and the harmonisation of the sub-legislative rules governing the administrative functioning of the public authorities, and the amendment of the Committee to Article 41 of the law was proposed and adopted. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee adopted all amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 27 to Article 65(2) of the current law. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to the 21st Article, the NSI Group of Ambassadors to the 27th, the SLS to the 15th and the PS, the SDS to the 27th Article. The Committee has drafted and adopted the amendment to Article 41. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which they are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] . The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. Since the assembly has already held a general debate on the draft law at its 19th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 27 January. The amendment of Article 27 of the SDS Group has been tabled and I am opening the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking the present or does anyone want to discuss it? Yeah. Just a minute. We'll open up an opportunity to apply. I ask for all those you wish to discuss to apply. We've got four applications. The first one is Mr. Janez Ribič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives was adopted by the Committee on Culture with amendments proposed by all four coalition parliamentary groups with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which I am very surprised by. With amendments, the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, prepared by the Ministry of Culture in cooperation with and with the consent of the Slovenian archival profession, Slovenian public and private archives, the Archivic Society of Slovenia, the Commissioners for Access to Public Information, the Information Society, the State and public administrations and so on, and, very importantly, the consensus of both the left and right users of archival material on access to the Republic of Slovenia Archives in 2012, in particular with regard to access to public works, has been thoroughly amended and supplemented by the fact that the proposal is now worse than the 2011 referendum version. The legislative and legal service has frustrated the bill's proposal by modifying and adding the content of individual articles, as if archiving as a profession and scientific discipline would not exist and literally inventing solutions instead of making legal and terminology adjustments. If such a law is adopted, it means that public entities will still have to confirm the internal rules in the Human Resources-Depleted Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, but not the State authorities. So, for example, the Ministry doesn't, and public schools do. This is discrimination in the field of ensuring the conditions and procedures for electronic storage of archive material in digital form, which means that procedures for ensuring secure, reliable and reliable electronic storage of archive material in digital form in Slovenia will not be the same for all legal persons. However, private individuals will have to pay for the assessment, which means a financial burden. In the background, the tendering and auditing lobby remains the same as in 2006. They naively think that the udbov material will be more accessible if the coalition offers them the anonymisation of archive documents with sensitive personal data. They did not realize that this particular procedure, to be carried out by the Archive or the appointed Director of the State Archives, would legally conceal sensitive personal data to them according to subjective judgement. It must be clear to us that such anonymization is lost in archival documents of all credibility or historical value. We are confident that users of archival material, researchers, historians with anonymisation will not be satisfied, as many meetings have made clear in 2012. I repeat that for access to archival material, including Udbovski, the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives in the proposed amendments by the Ministry of Culture or the archival profession, was very liberal and in accordance with the recommendation of the Council of Europe, the International Archives Council and the Slovenian Constitution, which in principle protects personal data, no matter where or when they were created. Therefore, the law must follow constitutional provisions and, of course, exceptions to access to archival material with sensitive personal data should be known in the case of demonstrated and justified scientific and public interest and in the case of demonstrated legal interest in official proceedings, such as the correction of post-war charges, criminal charges and so on, in Articles 66 and 68 of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. With these three ways of access, the entire audience material is practically accessible. We believe that Members should reject this last amendment of the law because, in the field of archival material protection, it will do even more professional damage than it has done before or will not be implemented and it will not be possible to implement it in the field of electronic storage. As far as access to the so-called Udbov material is concerned, the archive of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to be able to hide, cross or overlap it according to political orientation. The material will also become less accessible due to the pretext of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia that it is not able to inspect all the requested materials and cover all sensitive personal data and so on. We propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia does not adopt the bill and proposes to the Ministry of Culture that a new archival law be drawn up, as the archival section has already proposed several times. This is not supported by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! Of course, the story of this marriage has an extremely long beard. I must say that, personally and even in the Group of Members, we have long believed that only the professional grounds are the reason for the amendment of the law, to supplement the law, and we are aware that certain solutions are, of course, necessary. However, the events of the last month, and some of the debates in this Parliament at the Commission on Petitions, have brought us to our senses. The reason for this law, I have long said this, and these key solutions that we have before us today were "lex Perković" in Croatia and the strict demands of the European Union, how the country can deal with the crimes of the former regime of the former state. Two sessions of the Commission on Petitions convinced us that this exception is a key point for the current authority. Intensive will to shut down information on all drastic human rights violations, including systematic killings in the 1970s and 1980s – not in the 45th year, which the Slovenian public is aware of, of course, but in the 1970s and 1980s, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there's no moral excuse for not clearing that up. The ethics and morals of those who prevent it fall under human laws and human rights, such as the grave that has been in place for thousands of years since the Antigone. This is exactly what it has become clear, ladies and gentlemen, now that we have already tabled this amendment, last week on the Petitions Commission, on these matters, on these drastic violations of human rights, including the taking away of the lives of innocent people in the 1970s and 1980s, it has been seen that the strongest parties to this coalition have been dissatisfied with the seizure of their Members at the first session of this commission and sent to the fire of the leaders of the parliamentary groups. If I can understand that, for example, at the first meeting of the Member who was probably passionately convinced of the correctness of the previous regime – although I do not understand that she has rejected all the suggestions that would illuminate the views that would allow the families of the displaced to bury the relatives – it has struck me as amazement that the younger politicians, who are not actually burdened with it, reject the civil standard that I cannot imagine not to apply; that someone rejects the civilisation standard of the right to grave. It is said that they have taken up the role of the Antiantigones and, in my opinion, have disgraced this National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, this will to close the archives in this work is so intense, behind it are such strong men of this country, today they are the most powerful capitalists, once by repression the strongest, absolute rulers. Thus, from this perspective, it is again seen that it was distasteful that the Government was changing the articles that were confirmed at the referendum agreed upon by the Constitutional Court and that this political will to defend crimes prevailed in the 1970s and 1980s over human laws and civilisation standards. From this point of view, I must say that in the meantime there were no problems with the law. No one can say that the personal circumstances of any official of the former Judgment have been revealed. She didn't reveal herself. Even though one can begin on the basis of that interest, consider, and that these murders took place in the 1970 ’ s, 80 ’ s, one literally Freudian thought that some killed out of passion, out of frustration, perhaps even sexual. This can no longer be a secret according to civil standards, because this must no longer be repeated on these soils, ladies and gentlemen! We know that history repeats itself as a farce in worse form, and the only cure is to make such things clear. I hope that those Members who have made a slip, who have denied the right to grave in the meantime, will therefore, by voting in this law and further matters, turn their position into a position such as that of civilisation, in accordance with European civilisation and universal civilization, because even the nomadic nations do not deny the rights to grave, completely undeveloped nations. This is a general civil code that has been created autonomously; only in communism has it been denied and some want us to deny it at this time. As a result, our amendment is one who tries to make sense of it, until the previous meeting of the petition committee, it was a reasonable distance of time, and I doubt that it is reasonable. For the publicist Omerza, who has done so much in recent years for the civilisation of this country, said that any such solution in which you have already convinced us that it will work, is the closure of archives, because anonymisation also means a year or a couple of months of closure, and in the meantime these forces in society, which are extremely strong, have made sure that those materials will disappear and that the history of this country and human rights will again be undermined. Ladies and gentlemen, human rights must be the first law, "lex generalis", only then can they be subordinate laws. Subsequent rights may not be primary. As a result, we will also listen carefully to the debates as to whether the conviction that we cannot resist these civilisation standards in the National Assembly has prevailed, and only on this basis will we make a final decision. This was accepted at the referendum and it is wise to keep it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. It's Mr. Chush's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Given that I am quite young and do not know everything exactly, I would still like to address the issue of archives in general. It seems to me that the basic sin is in the acts that have been committed and in various criminal acts. One of the criminal acts that happened was cultural genocide over the Slovenian people. When I talk about cultural genocide over the Slovenian people, I talk about those people who, at the time of the country's independence, hid them, buried them, buried them underground, burned them, probably 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. This is a basic sin to argue today because we all know that crimes, acts against humanity, against human rights have been committed. But the biggest problem is that these people with blood on their hands either burned down or made sure we didn't find them anywhere. In these few folders or folders that exist in the archive today, I don't know if that's one fifth of everything that was or should have been. This is a basic problem – cultural genocide over the Slovenian people. Let me touch on our proposal for an amendment: "The archivic material created before the constitution of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 May 1990 relating to former social political organisations, internal affairs bodies, judicial bodies and intelligence and security services is available without restriction." In doing so, I would also like to point out the continuation of our amendment proposal: "The Archive Commission is obliged to decide immediately on the availability of archive material from the previous sentence and within 30 days at the latest. If, within the time limit referred to in the previous sentence, the archival commission does not decide on access to the archive material referred to in the first sentence, it shall be deemed to have granted access." Today there are probably countless roles that are decided on oh and even for a long time. I think that even those people who are dealing with this today, although I think that the law enforcement authorities should also be involved, are waiting for these decisions after months and it is not surprising that the procedures are stalling. Next, in 2011, we had a referendum when the Slovenian people with plebiscite, if I may say so, decided most of them to want to know their past so that they could build their unburdened future. Ladies and gentlemen, the longer we delay and delay this, the longer we will delay this national reconciliation, the further we will be burdening young and new generations, which I believe are of no interest to many more interested in employment or independence from their families. Let me say that I am in particular in favour of giving our amendment to the archival commission a clear deadline in which access to the material must be defined, and of course I hope that all Members and Members of the National Assembly will be ready to do some corrective action in order to allow everyone who wants to know their past to know that they will be able to live in peace the next day. Let me conclude that I condemn all attempts to conceal the past and, for example, acts against humanity and thus condemn the cultural genocide of the Slovenian people even more.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Novak, the Minister has spoken before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u112	Your Honor, thank you very much. Nevertheless, I remain optimistic because the public debate has shown that we are in this design, in particular 66. And Article 65, however, tried and found an appropriate solution, which is the most transparent, simple and also practically feasible and verifiable. Eight reasons why the novel brings more accessible and accessible archives and archive material. First time. Uniform conditions for all archives and for all authors of the archive material under which this material is produced. This brings novelties. Another time. Accessibility for all public entities, not only the Archives of Slovenia, must also ensure the availability of archive material after this novel. Third time. The set of personal data of sensitive personal data is being consolidated from the current law. The information on political affiliation, political party membership, union membership or philosophical belief is deleted and is no longer regarded as sensitive personal data. Fourth time. The note makes it very clear that it is not only for individual parts or individual documents, but not for joint documents. Fifth. The anonymisation adopted by the committee clearly means less work for the archival commission, means more work for the Slovenian Archives, which will have to equip such documents adequately, but nevertheless means greater freedom of access to all archival material. Six. A clear delimitation of what accessibility means for that material which is linked either to sensitive personal data or to classified data. The Government shall decide on sensitive data relevant to national security in accordance with the administrative procedure. The sensitive personal information shall be decided by the archival commission, as it has now decided. It's a week. The amendments adopted by the SDS – the deadlines for inaccessibility do not extend, they remain the same as they were for 75 years. Let me mention that under eight. Point: All proceedings of the parliamentary commission shall be made freely accessible as they are now. These are the facts, honourable Members, which, however, do not go through. The debate referred to the referendum will. But here I would like to warn you the following. The referendum rejected a law that we are not discussing today. The referendum, which included 40% of the participation, made it clear that "no" was not a law. The referendum did not confirm the law in force. And if you read very carefully the doctrine of a rejected marriage, I would not like to lecture you in this way now, you will see that it is a completely different article. Therefore, I am really not afraid that in this case this novel would be tampered with as to the referendum will or any circumvention of this will. Mr Ribič highlighted the issue of the digital archive and the uniform technological requirements to be introduced and argued that there are considerable costs and burdens. We think that the material produced in the public sector is the one that is archived under certain internal rules. The novelty raises uniform technological requirements to the level of the regulation, the uniform technological requirements as to how this material is covered – applies to all. What he highlighted as a problem is that it will increase costs when public institutions, for example, have to give their internal rule to confirm the Slovenian Archives, but in fact for most public institutions, it does not. The Slovenian Archives should establish model rules for kindergartens, model health rules, such as one model rule, and access to these rules will be completely free of charge. The certification costs for specific public institutions, where internal rules need to be adjusted slightly, are at the level of administrative costs, which is €15. The only cost of 15 euros! Therefore, I ask that we do not talk about how the costs of introducing digital material will be increased so that we do not lose it forever. Now, specifically, to the amendment itself. We specifically asked the archival commission what it thought about 30 days to say from practice. The archive Commission, which decides on such access and whose president is Dr Andreja Valič Zver, met on 24 January 2014 and discussed under different headings the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Documentary Archive Material, concerning the 30-day period within which the Commission must decide. The Commission has taken the view that it is more reasonable to respect the time limits set by the Administrative Procedure Act in the proceedings it is conducting, as these are appropriate. However, the Administrative Procedure Act provides for a two-month period. There's something else that's very important. The Novela even binds the entire procedure to the Administrative Procedure Act. We gain transparency, we gain ownership of this general administrative procedure, but we also have a clear legal basis based on a number of other practices, and I think that the widest possible legal certainty is clearly ensured. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to listen to the profession, to listen to the professions, to listen to them and to follow some amendments. Therefore, once again I appeal, the amendment proposed, including with regard to Articles 66 and 65, makes our approach to accessing archive material transparent, responsible and does not in any way close the archives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. However, I would like to point out that we are talking about Article 27, not the law in general, because the presentation of views has already been given. We are talking about Article 27 and the SDS amendment. Mrs. Potrata has a procedure before this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I understand your desire to direct attention to Article 27 and the amendment tabled in this article, only to note that you then gave a bit of late warning and only warned the Minister. I ask on a procedural basis whether such a directive will require that we stick to the amendment, be applied only to, for example, my Group of Members or be applied to all. Because there was not a single opinion, I am sure of what the amendment of the SDS Group is talking about, no one spoke and no one knows what the amendment is and I would ask you, on a procedural basis, to remind you that we have to stick to the amendment, all of it. We should have Mr Jerovska, we should have Mr Couch, we should have Mr Ribič, and you have only reminded Mr Minister so far. Thank you for the attention you pay to the Minister. I hope you'll show it to us in the future, but I hope you understand cynicism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u115	Absolutely, Mrs. Potrata, I understand your cynicism, including the abuse of a procedural proposal on your part. I'm on it. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Join us, Mrs. Potrata, if you'd like to have another procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have drawn attention to the application of the Rules of Procedure which instructs the presiding officer to conduct the meeting in accordance with the agenda. And I warned you, who, of course, have every right to interpret the rules of procedure, as you explain it – and you have also just given me a reminder that I have abused the rules of procedure. Once again, I propose a procedural proposal that you apply the same criteria to everyone when you remind them of who is allegedly sticking to the agenda and who is not following the agenda. This has been an explicit procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I ask that you are correct to me. I know I expect a lot and it's hard to expect from you, but I expect proper treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Potter, once again for your truly constructive proposal, as always. I want to stick to the rules of procedure, and I also follow the kind of style that was introduced before me by the President of the National Assembly with regard to the warning of the speakers that the agenda and the rules of procedure are in place. At the outset, the Minister opened a wide debate in terms of what the novelties of the law bring. This debate has been held. I understand, Mr. Secretary, you've touched the amendment, too. Of course, I would like to move forward with all the rules of procedure, including the abuse or observance of procedural rules, Mrs Potrate. Now she has the word of the next debater who has applied, Mrs Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. The truth liberates and it is right that the archives are open and we are gradually coming to the truth in Slovenia. But we still have a lot of work to do. When I read the SDS amendment, it seems logical to me that archival material would be available within 30 days at the latest, although I also understand the argument of the profession which refers to the Administrative Procedure Act for two months, which is not so substantially extended. I know that the archives are a very sensitive topic, so Nova Slovenija has had quite a few concerns, especially with regard to the extension of the deadline for the closure of archives from 75 to 80 years. That was over. So, with the amendment that was adopted on the committee, the deadline came back to 75 years. That is why Nova Slovenija has decided not to oppose this law. Above all, because we have checked our thinking also in the profession or in those working in the archives, and not in those who favor the left political options, but also in those who favor the right political options, and they say that this law will make it easier for the archivists to work more easily, so that the archives are also better accessible. We believe that, so we will not oppose the law. As I said about this amendment, I think it would be appropriate. However, since the profession says that it is more understandable that it is better to stick to the Administrative Procedure Act, New Slovenia will adhere to this and respect the opinion of the profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up for the debate because there's more than one wish. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I will talk about the 27th Article of the Act, the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which deals with the deadlines for the non-availability of archival material. First of all, I would like to make the point that this law is one of the most open archival laws in the European Union or in Europe. Perhaps only the Czech archives are a little more open, but there are also many problems. I believe that if we made an expert analysis of the archival laws applicable to individual countries in the European Union in order to do so, we would find that they are one of the most open archives in Europe. On the other hand, it is true that in secret and sensitive data, all countries know a general period of inaccessibility, which is 40 years in Slovenia, with the possibility of an extension of 10 years. In Austria, for example, such archives are open after 50 years. In Germany, intelligence is available after 30 years if it is marked with a degree of secrecy, and this period is 60 years. In the Netherlands it is 75 years, in Italy 50 years, in Sweden 70 and in Croatia 50 years. Interestingly, in the Vatican, the pope’s archive becomes available after 70 years after the end of the pontificate or after the pope’s death for the entire period of his investment. Thus, the archives of the late Pope John Paul II will be fully accessible for the entire period of his papacy only in 2075. It also says enough about the fact that some foundations on Koroski plebiscite, some of the archival funds on Koroška plebiscite in 1920, are still unavailable today, and that, therefore, after 94 years of the creation of this material, they are still closed and may never be public. Thus, this law of ours, which we are considering today, is no specialty. It is not even comparable to the 2011 law that fell at the referendum, to that famous three-way referendum, from which one archival law was made, in fact, comparable to the 2006 law, by making this version more accessible and expanding access to this material than, say, the 2006 law, which was not at the referendum and did not fall for the referendum. For example, so now they can access this confidential data not only by researchers, archivists, scientists, historians, etc., but also by journalists – compared to 2006, when this was not possible. However, that 2006 law never fell at the referendum, and in fact we are only doing this amendment now, because the 2011 law written by the then government is nowhere else because it was rejected at the referendum itself. Let us see which public archives containing personal data will not be accessible. That relating to the health status of an individual, to sexual life, to the victims of crimes against sexual inviolability, marriage, family and children, the perpetrator of crimes and offences, except for the offences and offences committed by persons who have been prosecuted for opposition to the former unitary regime, religious belief and ethical affiliation. This makes the material available for public use 75 years after the production of the material or 10 years after the death of the individual. The material produced before the constitution of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 May 1990 will be available without restriction, except with the restrictions set out in that paragraph, as I said earlier. So virtually all the material will be available. This law also took into account the opinion of the public debate organised by the mother labour body. It is a matter of public presentation of opinions where the interested professional public has gathered and it was said that if in a larger document, which has 10, 15 pages, some personal information should not be available anymore, but would only cover or anonymise that small piece containing these sensitive data. And this position of the professional public in the public presentation of opinions is taken into account in this amendment of the law with so-called anonymisation. So the archives will be open, the documents will be open, only individual personal data will be covered or darkened. In addition, we have taken into account the fact that it returns from 80 years of inaccessibility to 75 years. This was also progress from the first to the second, or third, consideration of this law. So we listened or listened to both the professional public and other interested public in the government. And then there's this 30-day deadline that when one of the researchers, scientists, journalists come to the archives, they have to get the required document in use after 30 days. As the archival commission said, this deadline is lifeless. In the archives there are not many people employed, experts who are qualified, but relatively few people are working on it. The 30-day deadline is difficult to take into account, especially if we have some very extensive archive fund. I remember how famous historian Dr. Jože Pirjevec said when he explained his experience with the archives of Stasi in Germany, the German Secret Service, and he only got the document after 6 months of the request, not the entire fund, but, I will quote him: "And then I got the documents and those documents were allowed, open and the others closed in an envelope and I shouldn't have looked at them." So, say, the real German archival law. And if we compare it to ours, our archival law is more inappropriately open, so that I see no, not even the slightest, real basis to go to a referendum with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. I advocate that archives should be as open and available as possible to historians and other researchers involved. They must be able to explore, have access to documents and also use them for publications in books, articles and the like. The law has changed or we have a law as we know it in 2006. You will recall that at that time we also transferred part of the archives from Sova to the Archives of Slovenia. There's still a lot going on here. Remember the event when Minister Sturm found a cabinet in the basement of the Ministry that also contained documents that were then handed over to the archives. Later, we also found cells where people were tortured and perhaps killed in cells in Beethoven, here in the immediate vicinity. And since we have a amended law, when the law permits access to the archives, to the records, to everything that has not been destroyed, unlike Stasi and some others that you mentioned, the archives have not been destroyed there, and they have been fully dedicated to the archives and are now available to historians. In our country, those who feared the consequences of their actions were systematically destroying archives immediately after the first democratic elections in this country. However, since the documents were kept in various places, of course not all the archives have been destroyed and this crumb that we have is now in the Archives of Slovenia and is available to those who are exploring. The resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism speaks about this or calls on Member States to work towards opening archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services, and therefore we think this is very important and therefore we have tabled an amendment, because, as publicist Omerza has said, which has been doing so for years now, research is a more sophisticated way to disable access again. In the third paragraph of Article 27, which is being amended, our amendment reads as follows: "The archivic material created prior to the establishment of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 May 1990 relating to the former social political organisations, internal affairs bodies, judicial authorities and the intelligence and security services shall be accessible without mention, including the personal records of victims and associates of the former State Security and Verification Service. The Archive Commission shall decide on the availability of the archive material referred to in the preceding paragraph without delay and within 30 days at the latest. If, within the time limit referred to in the preceding paragraph, the archival commission does not decide on access to the archive material referred to in the first sentence, access shall be deemed to have been granted." In this article, the Ministry, when restricting access to personal data, stated that in some cases such a way as it has been, allows for the wide disclosure of both data obtained or generated in the conduct of public information and anti-intelligence activities of public authorities, as well as personal data for individuals who have not performed any public functions or were otherwise involved in public life in the previous country. Journalist Omerza said that researchers must always sign that they will not release personal sensitive data that they see in the archives. This statement must be signed every year and since the law has been in force since 2006, I do not recall having any affair or such information in the public domain, because of course researchers undertake not to abuse or use such data as they should not. So far there has been no such case, we have also asked the committee about it, and if there is such an argument – so the argument would be and would stand if such a case were to happen, but it is not, because, as it is said, researchers are aware of what material they are dealing with and that it is necessary to be careful when using it. You said that in Germany the Stasi archive was not accessible or what problems Mr Pirjevec had, but one of the researchers who also deals with these things said that the law has been amended in Germany and that many more things are available, so what some say is not true. As I have already mentioned, the archives were not destroyed there, and I hope that someone will be responsible for it once. Data are coming daily and will probably be further, as the destruction of archives is illegal and also means that today we have problems with a variety of research, including certain criminal procedures and so on. It was also mentioned that you listened to us when we were 75 or 80 years old or how long it would be available. Look, we're not that naive again. It's just a little smoke bomb to deal with it, you knew at the beginning that you'd let it go, because maybe in five years, you'd get a proposal to close 85 years ago, then 90; in short, just to close something up, because we don't want to make it public. I will support our amendment. I think it is right and it actually shows that what Mr Omerza has pointed out will happen, because in the fourth paragraph of this Article it is then accepted that documents containing data protected by periods of inaccessibility, as well as data accessible, are produced for access by an anonymous copy of the document. Mr Omerza said that there are two people involved in this work in the Archives, which means that in a more extensive construction it means several months of work. So when you want some document, some file, some folder that has, 100, 200, 300 pages, or 300 pages of document, that's 300 pages of document, it's going to take a while for things to be prepared to be available to researchers. I just don't go to the Archives every day, like some people do, and if those who are the main users and who can also sign under published books, under well-explored stories from our history, I think they're pointing out the right things. That's why we tabled such an amendment and, of course, I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jeraj. I'm asking those present if anyone else wants to discuss it. Opening login option. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u124	This debate is necessary and interesting and increasingly convinces me that what he has said, as has already been said, Mr Omerza, is an objective fact if we accept restrictions. In fact, I was confirmed by Mr Bevk, who is a historian, and he says that even this 30-day deadline is lifeless, so you are leaning for significantly longer hands, and that will make some materials, as Mr Omerza says, objectively unavailable. And we have no moral right not to make this work clear. I know that the current coalition depends so heavily on these great leaders of the previous system that these powers alone will not be able to be forced by the public; that this machine is so powerful that even some of the younger policies, as I mentioned earlier, force younger politicians to deny the civil standards that have been in force for thousands of years, which I find horrifying and freezing me to sit on the same bench and to bow to such violations of civil standards as the denial of the right to grave. But look, you have to come with the truth every day, and I think it's Sunday an event at Cerknem that tells us that if there's a truth that's been silenced for so long, there's only a few people who don't want to be monsters who have a conscience and wake up to their conscience and some information. This is about, say, a 75-year-old deadline. If, at that gesture he showed on Sunday, which I welcome, because every step towards truth and justice needs to be welcomed, I would not say anything that was hidden and which is still hidden, that the communists themselves found out the next day that they had committed a crime, that they had killed 14 domestics as revenge for German soldiers, nothing to blame for – in Lajs, I think it was said. This information has been hidden so far and is probably still hidden, but it may be written somewhere. And then there's a whole bunch of information. I think that Lajša is connected to that event, when Mr Fisher was later a prosecutor for some priests who put a cross there. I hope that now he too will make up his mind and carry the flower, repent there and bow down to the innocent victims. These are steps to bring about trauma for Slovenia. As a Styrian, where there were no two sides, it's easier to talk about. It's also easier for me to speak out of respect for, say, partisans, those honest, authentic ones who didn't have a revolution in their heads. Above all, in these matters in the last month, we are focusing on documents that these Februarys were convinced were permanently deleted, from the 1970s and 1980s, killings of the Udba in the 1970s and 1980s. Or in the 1990s, when we recently discovered from secondary sources and it became clear that Tomšič’s clients, the predecessors of today’s party, had framed the Austrian-Koroška Udbov informant, Slovenians, who had proved to be a donor and so on. Each of these spring parties was set up by people. Of course, you were very afraid of what the founders of these parties, who are still in the process of being set up, were doing to the customers at that time. If this is clarified, some who are forever setting up new parties from the background will finally be privileged to be trusted by the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. You want a replica, Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I did not want to make any further calls today, but I was encouraged by my colleague Jerovšek, who mentioned John Stanovnik's exceptional upright action on Sunday in Cerkljanski. On Sunday, Janez Stanovnik paid tribute to the memory of both the fallen students of the party school in Cerkne and the killed partisans in Lajša, Cerkljansko Vrh. This was indeed an exceptional act of uprightness that we can all simply admire, regardless of political or other affiliation. It is not known, however, that John the Regent, as president of the martial arts organization at a partisan ski ceremony in Cerkne, apologized for this action more than 10 years ago, but that act was not given public attention at the time of this Sunday’s act. What I'm saying is that the president of the fighting organisation made a clear apology more than 10 years ago and said that these people who were killed at the time did not blame this betrayal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I believe that Article 65 of the Law on Archives is subject to a number of opinions. Last but not least, the Ombudsman also spoke about Article 65 and the solutions to the current law. When we talk about sensitive personal data, which is excluded from general accessibility by the proposed novel, regardless of who the sensitive personal data are, this is fully in line with the Council of Europe recommendations on access to archival material adopted by the Committee of Ministers in July 2000 and then transmitted by the Council of Europe, as has been said. I will not read to you everything that is contained in this Recommendation, but, however, under the second chapter, the legislative and regulatory texts, where it is specifically stated to the legislator, any national legislator, that the laws and regulations relating to access to public archival material should be in line with the legislation governing related areas, in particular the legislation on access to information held by public authorities, and the legislation providing for data protection. Fourthly, the criteria for access to public archive material laid down by law should apply to all archival materials throughout the national territory, irrespective of the archives responsible for their protection. The alignment of private and public archives with this provision also works. In particular, I would like to point out that data protection concerns all persons. The previous provision, which excluded one group from the protection of personal data, could be discriminatory or discriminatory. I think that Dr Valič Zver, who is not only the president of the archival commission, but also a member of the European Centre for Human Rights in Vienna, would have something to explain. Because I think that if we once had bad legislation, we should do everything we can to avoid adopting legislative solutions that would allow discrimination. On some statements, however, I would like to clarify the availability of other archives. Of course, on some occasions it was possible to hear something at the expense of what was going on in Tarča, but now I have also read the record in which I was awarded a statement concerning the Stasi archives. I didn't talk about Stasi's archives in Tarca, but Dr. Pirjevac, Dr. Jože Pirjevec, is a magician's comment. Of how long it would take the archival commissions to review this material, he mentioned that he had to wait six months alone when he was looking for documentary material in Stasi’s archives. The author of the contribution in one week claims that the Law on archival and documentary material or on the availability of archives in Germany has been amended. Of course, I did not go to check what was changed in this law, but I would certainly like to know if the experts and representatives of the ministry here know which direction the change was meant to explain it, because I think we are obliged to provide accurate information to the public. With regard to the 30-day period within which the archival commission should respond, and with regard to the protection of sensitive personal data, let me add that, in the case of the law that has been most open so far, this is the Czech law, the actions of those whose data has not been secured – sensitive personal data – will be amended or the amendment of the Czech law is also in preparation. Is it even accepted — I don't know exactly. I am simply talking about the need to treat sensitive personal data sensitively and that in reality everyone has the right to fundamental human rights and human rights protection. What can be said in this case: no one can access the archive material by entering the archive, and I would look at it and get the archive material. I was a registered researcher myself. I requested archival materials from the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Like everyone else, I had to play a written role and the Archives of Slovenia informed me at what time the required archive material could be prepared for me. Who has worked with archives or archives — and I have researched as a literary historian and have resorted to resources — knows how this sensitive material is and at the same time knows how it should deal with sensitive archive material. This is a professional, professional ethics that prevents the publication of data that would in any way be detrimental to the consideration, especially if you are to deal with dead people who can no longer defend themselves and their good name. Therefore, it seems to me that the 30-day deadline that is written here, and with the comments of some of the materials that will be required for inspection, is unrealistic for me in the case of someone requesting a large archival body, when the archival commission has to examine it and determine whether it will give – I wonder whether it is a reasonable deadline and why it is so set, because otherwise the proposed amendment states that if the archival commission does not respect the 30-day deadline, all archive materials from the requested body will automatically become available. I think it should be borne in mind that the 2006 Act, which opened it all, then became an insurance policy and decided, as it had decided with these amendments. So I think it's important to be very careful here. As for the signed statements, however, I would only point out that I recently read this in another week that Heimatdinst came to a DVD with archival material that Heimatdinst would not have had access to under our current legislation. Now I don't know what we're trying to achieve or how we're trying to achieve. I can and I can say that I don't attribute to anyone who was the one who delivered the material, but that's what happened. This should also be taken into account. I think that the interests of the state of Slovenia need to be protected, especially if you know what the historical experience with Heimatdinst is in Austria's Koroška. It is not a matter of any excess of competence and the possibility of this, but the truth has to be said lovingly that it advocated shortening the deadlines for inaccessibility from the proposed 80 to the existing 75 New Slovenia – Christian Democrats in public presentation of opinions and that it was equally possible to follow the desire in their performances to shorten this deadline only because that amendment was to delete the entire 27th Article, we did not support the amendment of the New Slovenia. Once again, in order for the public to know, the Committee on Culture has not requested written contributions from anyone to make public representations, only the possibility of contributions being made has been mentioned. Where an invitation has been sent, however, the proponents of the public presentation should look at what address they have given, and then a number of embarrassing and bad will will fall away. It's just things are what they are, and I think it's right to say them to each other. However, a public presentation of the opinions is intended for the public and comes to it, who wants to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u129	The minister wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u130	Your Honor, thank you very much. We are obliged to ensure unequivocal transparency of access to archive material. Therefore, I would really ask Members to read again the supposed proposed amendment, which primarily speaks of this, first sentence: "The archivic material that came before the constitution of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 May 1990, which relates to former social political organisations, internal affairs bodies, judicial authorities and intelligence services, is available without restriction, including the personal files of victims and associates of the former State Security and Verification Service." That's the first sentence of the amendment. Why did I want to read it, and why do I want to put it in parallel with the third paragraph of the article about this? In fact, the first amendment is as follows: "Public archival material in public archives created before the constitution of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 May 1990 shall be accessible without restriction, except with the restrictions set out in the second paragraph of this Article." These are restrictions relating to sensitive personal data. The first clear consequence of this comparison is that the proposed amendment only revives this material on certain types of documents, on documents of former sociopolitical organisations, internal affairs bodies, judicial bodies, intelligence and security services. In the novel that's before you, it's all about all the material, including this and some other stuff. So this is where the amendment narrows down the definition of material. However, you must be aware of this and, clearly, know what it means. Then this second sentence, which also needs to be read again: "The Archive Commission is obliged to decide immediately on the availability of archive material from the previous sentence, within 30 days at the latest." In fact, if you have previously said that this material is available without any restrictions, this means that you have probably overrun the second paragraph of this article. This means that the archiving commission is no longer here because the archival commission only decides on the material, including sensitive personal data. Then the archival commission here has no role to play. But if you wanted to keep sensitive personal information, then the archival commission will come. The legislator is the one who adopts laws, I am only obliged to point out a certain inconsistencies that is clear here and that will in practice raise the issue. I think that the novelty in this respect is crystal clear; what the archival commission decides about sensitive personal data is a clear process which is defined and bound to the ZUP and in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, including the 60-day mandatory deadline within which it must decide. And there's no doubt here. We wouldn't want to be vague. With regard to the anonymisation of the material, I must say that, on the proposal of Mr Leljak from the general presentation of opinions, this has been introduced into the law, although in practice this already exists, the former Director of the Archive, Dr Dežman, has adopted a regulation, but we think that it is right that such a provision is clearly not a matter of every time of the archive, but of the law. And that's being handled properly. But on anonymisation; these are tasks, of course, that do not concern the archival commission, these are the tasks of the Slovenian Archives, which consciously assumed certain new obligations. There are no specific problems in practice in this regard. In our search for solutions in this novel, we were interested in what is really going on in practice and how to make this practice as transparent and clear as possible. There's no evil intentions back here, I'll say it again. This is a matter of solutions that introduce transparency and clear rules. Let me remind you again, the archival commission has also warned that there are some problems in how to proceed. And the archival commission has found that, with regard to the current novel that you have before you, the procedures are clearer, that the definitions are clearer, and that this will make it easier for you to do your job. Therefore, once again, honourable Members, I propose that you really read the amendment carefully, read the third paragraph of the proposed amendment, see what the role of the archival commission is and what the role of the Government in deciding on classified information relating to national security is, and you will see that there is a very clear and transparent system here, how to make such data available as far as possible. In fact, if sensitive personal data are identified as unavailable, this does not mean that they are not accessible. No, it just means that there is an archival commission procedure for how to access this data. And that's also a civil code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Look, putting bombs in schools, in museums, in halls where 3,000 people are gathered, today it's called terrorism, and it's what the whole world is fighting against, but that's exactly what the secret service of the totalitarian regime used to do, called Uda and other names that were popular here. This is actually why it does not want to know what the content of the amendment is, the essence of which is that it relates to the secret service of the totalitarian regime and to what this service was formally subordinated to, these were formerly social political organizations, as we have said, but in fact there is a great question about who was more subordinate to whom. If you look at, say, the relationship between Mr Ivan Cat Matija and some Slovenian chiefs of the central committee, you could very much discuss who was who. But this also applies to their work, which is being explored today by all democratic Europe, the crimes of the former SDV or the Udba are being dealt with today by law enforcement authorities in Austria, also by their parliament, some parliamentarians working in Germany, including some German politicians, including some German historians. In Slovenia alone, the law enforcement authorities are not involved, they do not want to. Even when any complaints were made, they said that there were certain reasons why they would reject what they were about to do. This is how you quoted many countries today, such as Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic and some others, and cited them as an example of how to act. There's only one thing you've forgotten. In all these countries, members of the secret service of the totalitarian regime, the key ones who issued orders and those who carried out them unconsciously, were convicted, and so justice has already spoken its word about them. There was no such thing in Slovenia! And it's a shame not to. No wonder the late lawyer Klep was talking about the red verdict. You have also talked about laws and certain things adopted by the European Union or institutions such as the Council of Europe, and have silenced essential information. In 2009, the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism was adopted, which is an article that explicitly regulates these things that we are talking about today. This article says that all things related to the secret services of the totalitarian regime must be spoken as publicly as possible and that these archives must be open to scientific study, to publicism, to historians and to all others who want to deal with this matter, because if we forget something from our history, history likes to repeat; unfortunately, the whole world is like that. Of course, the things that some would like most to sweep under the carpet, because if what is being said about this subject in the archives could, in fact, be dealt with by historians, politicians and publicists without any restriction, and all those to whom the European resolution applies, to which you, like all of you in Parliament, are committed, then it would be quick to see that even those that have led to some of them that you now recognize as opinion leaders or some sacred icons. And then the thing would be pretty unpleasant, because on the transition left, you know what the meaning of symbolic level and interpretation is. If something forgets, if something closes, if it drowns somewhere in the darkness of history and archives, then it didn't happen. Even though all Europe is doing so, all Europe is writing about it – this has not happened to us. And that's all it really is. The article before you is perfectly consistent if you read the law as a whole, with this article, with our amendment; with what is envisaged by the European resolution, which you yourself have declared to be binding on you, although, by the way, you have refused to confirm it in the Slovenian Parliament. And today you repeat this story. This resolution makes it very clear that the archives of totalitarian services, the former totalitarian regime, such as the SDV, the Ubba, all its derivatives and predecessors, must be kept unreservedly open, respecting all those principles that touch on the respect of victims and everything else, as the whole world knows and knows the procedures of anonymisation and other things. However, these things are not allowed to be used in any way to protect criminals or to cover up crimes. If they have not already been condemned by law, at least to remain alive in consciousness, to be talked about, to be taught that children will know what the problem of the previous regime was and that they will not jump under various totalitarian symbols that they do not know what they really meant for the victims of those regimes — both of them. Europe knows exactly three of them and in the resolution it has levelled them and very clearly covered them: fascism, communism, Nazism. They are all the same, no matter what, and all their symbols are equally worthy of condemnation and shame. That's the truth, if you know the whole story, from the house of Stalin to the slaughters committed by the Ascension. Just before 1990, people who took care of the graves of others fell under fire as they planted bombs at restaurants and museums to fuel hatred among nations in order to have an excuse to continue cultivating a cult of hatred. These are stories that should not be repeated in Europe. These are the stories that should be spread in Europe. It is therefore important that the archives are open, that they are not closed under any excuse, and that all those who want to obtain relevant information, for any purpose already, whether it is publicism, history, or for some other scientific needs, or simply that the verified arguments are used in a public discourse so that they can do so. And it is a question of Europeanism; one who is actually committed to Europe, which respects European resolutions and European values, in particular those clearly covered by the European Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism of 2009, will vote in favour of our amendment. But who, abroad, shows one face, and at home a different, completely opposite one, as has unfortunately been shown when the European resolution on totalitarianism and the European conscience in this House is being considered and has another face for home, will vote against. The story is clear and clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it. I'll open up some applications if anyone else wants to. Here you go. I'm opening up an application. We have another debate tabled. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome to the Minister! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed an amendment to the 27th Article of the Archive Material Act, which speaks of briefly saying that the material must be accessible without restriction. This is the archival material that came before the constitution of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 May 1990. Of course, this is also about the archival material that has caused the biggest problems in recent weeks. It is the archival material of the State Security Service or so-called Utva before that. In recent weeks, as has already been said, social political space has shaken discoveries about what the State Security Service has been doing. Let me say again that this was not a humanitarian organisation, but the State Security Service was a criminal organisation. I am surprised that the members of the coalition have not been able to confirm on the Commission for Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities to confirm this conclusion that the State Security Service, in view of the actions that have also been proven within the archival material – that is why we are also fighting for them to remain open – have not been able to take a step to support this decision, even though the Criminal Organisation of the State Security Service has already confirmed the Supreme Court in its decision 2002. In 2002! On the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we have now dealt twice with the functioning of the State Security Service mainly through the prism of human rights. We are talking in particular about two human rights, which in fact represent the highest place on the hierarchical scale of constitutional values. Articles 17 and 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The first constitutional right speaks of the inviolability of human life, while the second constitutional right speaks of personal dignity or the right to personal dignity and security. And that's exactly what the State Security Service has been up against. Completely trampled. It is right that we are talking about this, and it is also right that researchers like Mr Omerza and Mr Leljak can tell what was going on at the time. But instead of people defining themselves to content, we deal with procedures and deal with the fact that some people who warn and finally discover this dark side of history are discredited. He's discrediting in different ways. Now I would like to remind you that even those Members who may not have been in the National Assembly before will be why a referendum on the Law on archival materials took place in 2011. The referendum did not just happen, and it did not involve citizens and citizens who decided that the archives should remain open just like that, but mainly because of one event that happened. Mr Igor Omerzi was unlawfully deprived of the opportunity to look into certain documentation in the Republic of Slovenia Archives. And who did it? No one but the former director of the Owl, Mr. Selan. Mr Selan has made it illegal for certain documents to be marked "secretly" because the law makes it impossible for him to do so. Omerzi had this to look into certain documents. Which means that some people had to be protected. And not any people! At that time, Mr Omerza wrote about the so-called Velivec affair or the Velivec crime. And at the time of this study, Mr Danilo Türk was the president of the country. This President of the country, I must say, was the President of the Commission for Minority and Emigrant Affairs at the time of this event. This is important. Therefore, Mr Omerzi was prevented from looking at these documents, and even though a year earlier, a student, because she needed it for the purpose of research, could have obtained this documentation. But after the discovery of what was in the background, but they had to close that part quickly, they put a secret and a mag tag on top. The restrictive access that he owned under the law was no longer possible. Let me explain that Mr Omerza has requested access to the archives from 1973 to 1984, it is said in this period, when the killings of the State Security Service have already been reported several times, under which Mr Janez Zemalerič, who is still a grey eminence of both political and economic space, is also signed. And one more thing. Mr. Igor Omerza demanded, and here was the biggest problem, microfilms from 1979 and 1980. So, he demanded those microfilms that are connected to the Velikivec affair, because he wanted to write about it, but in us, people who deal with such things, of course, can't write about it because it's part of history that needs to be kept quiet. 95% of the archive material has been destroyed in one way or another, and 5% is still available, and now we can see that these 5% are heavily burdened by some individuals. It's very heavy. I therefore hope that citizens and citizens will understand why it is necessary – although they already know that they have already voted in the 2011 referendum to keep the archives open – why this is so important. This is not about someone cleaning up ideologically, as they do in coalition parties or in parliamentary groups, saying it over and over again. That's not what this is about. It is the fact that those who have the right to explore this painful recent history may have access to this information in order to bring about the historical truth of the day. That's why these archives need to be open. Not that we, I don't know, bet on it every day, but that's why. That's the key. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we then requested or proposed a referendum in 2011 on the Law on archival materials, and then the coalition sent this referendum initiative to the Constitutional Court, but thank God, the Constitutional Court then found out what was crucial and what was essential. It is not essential to protect certain people, and it is not essential to protect the privacy of some, but it is essential that people have the right to information and the right to an objective historical truth. These are the key questions! There's no ideology here, it's just a matter of truth. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The minister wanted another word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u136	Dear Mrs Irgle, a few words, however, encouraged me to take a call. You said we're dealing with some procedures here, instead of dealing with content -- something like that. However, I should say and point out that the law regulates very clear procedures regarding access to archival material. I have to say one more step forward, but there is a very nice river: the procedure is the mother of democracy. In the beginning, I said, and I'm sorry that you haven't been in the hall all along, so clearly delimited, why referring to the marriage that fell at the referendum is embarrassing; it's embarrassing because the law that is no longer there was rejected today. This was not confirmed by the present law. A law that no longer exists has been rejected, and it is also very clear that what is now being proposed in the novel has nothing to do with the solution there. I've pointed out eight points why the current novel makes archives and archive material more accessible. I have given reasons why and what the role of the archival commission is and where the proposals for these solutions came from; from practice, not from some academic circles or from any other motivation. Therefore, once again, I propose that the novel really be read, as you yourself said, not ideologically, in terms of how the material is defined, how the classified information is defined, how sensitive personal data is defined, and what the procedure is – which it has in deciding on the material that is marked as unavailable – for researchers, for journalists, for everyone who deals in one way or another with our history in the same and equal way. Following the administrative procedure, this is an important novelty of the novel because it allows for the widest legal certainty and, of course, also tested. But maybe just one piece of information, also interesting to you Members, because I see that we cannot possibly hold this debate at the level of debate on the law and legal solutions, but important information that we obtained from the Slovenian and Soviet Archives yesterday. You know that there are quite a few agreements concluded by Sova and the Archives of Slovenia regarding how the material of the former State Security Service is being returned to the archives. In 2008 the agreement between the Director of the Archives of Slovenia, Dr. Matevež Kosher and Andrej Rupnik, in 2011 – Dragan Matič and the Director of the Sova Stane Stastamberger, the agreement of 2013 – Jože Dežman and Damir Črnčec, and 2013 – mag. Bojan Cvelfar and Stane Stamberger. Not to go through some chronology that may not matter here, but to tell you where we are today by handing over this material. In 2013, the Slovenian Archives took over four different groups of documents from Sova, the last of which took place in 19. 3. 2013 It was about documents that were subsequently found in cases opened after 17. 5. 1990. Together, it was a material of 3,3 running metres; and it also took over publications from the library of the former State Security Service, a total of 8,2 running metres of material. The deadline for the delivery of all remaining materials was extended to 5 on the proposal and the wish of the Owl with an annex signed by the Director of the Archives and the Owl. 12. 2013 and then extended to 30. 6. In 2014, when the archive of the Republic of Slovenia will have completed all the material produced before 1990, before the date 17. 5. According to the report of the Owl of this kind of surrender material, which is still under review, there is no more than one running meter. That's what we're talking about when we're thinking about and when we're speculating about what's still out there. Once again, today the National Assembly is ahead of an important task of unifying its accessibility to archival material. By clear rules, by clear procedures, by clear definition. The archiving section, the archival commission, marks this novel proposal as very good quality. The Committee on Culture also adopted such an opinion, including the three SDS Members, at the time they did not object. Mr Gorenak, of course, had certain reservations, but he made it clear that the solutions were going in the right direction. I think it is time for the politicians in this country to unify one thing: the way they access the material that tells us about our history, our half-time history that is sensitive. We're probably not going to get together about this. But there's a way to access it. The novel that is before you has been given to you on the table and before you to make a responsible decision on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary! I am grateful that you have again explained how little material is in the archives about the activities of these Udba intelligence services, the State Security Service. You said that one meter running, and thus you clearly showed the non-civilisational behaviour of the then party in 1990, which had destroyed all these files and all that; and this happened in Europe only with us, in Slovenia. I am not surprised, therefore, that the Members of these parties, who come from the only party allowed at that time, are also voting against civilisation decisions today, such as decisions on the right to grave. That's incomprehensible! You said, Mr. Secretary, we'd agree on the best access. I firmly believe, increasingly, that the best access is open access, because these things must be open. This confirmed the people in the referendum, and in this way there will be more people from day to day who will be approached by the past, or you know, and they will also lay some flowers on the graves of those who were innocent victims, on both sides. For this reason, I think that this whole conflict with this law was practically unnecessary. Let these things be open, maximum, for the human right to life is a greater value than the human right of the one who took life. We need to be clear about this, and this is a fundamental civilisation law. I think it should also be respected in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss this, or I will give the floor to the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u140	Dear Mr Jerovšek, I must explain once again, because I think there is some misunderstanding. The current regime is very similar to the one proposed. The current regime does not have free access to all materials. The current arrangement has an archival committee that we don't touch. The regulation that we are proposing for the first time brings together the set of personal data, the regulation that we are proposing, also makes available the material of other public entities, introduces anonymisation, which will further increase the free availability of materials and in no way weakens the availability deadlines and other segments. Only the procedure clearly regulates and binds it to the Administrative Procedure Act. We don't have any available archive material available today. The novel will make this material more freely accessible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Vogrin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's a pretty logical question to ask. Where is the reason why every government, every government, without exception, begins to interfere with and amend the law on archival materials. Every single one of them. What exactly are we hiding, what are we doing, what are we hiding, what are we trying to say? What are we afraid of? Pasts, Presents, Futures — What? Archives, what has happened in the past is a matter of historians, not politicians, and of historians having free access to material. Free access. Not that we are always making it difficult with such and different obstacles, but of course let politicians follow this as impatiently as possible so as not to exploit it for political purposes. If someone has done something wrong in the past, it is known who is responsible. But we in Parliament should, I think, deal with completely different things. The present is problematic. The present, not the past! We're not gonna change anything. Present! People have always lower wages, more and more people are hungry, the last time we even looked at the Defence Committee, you will say because it has no direct connection – of course it does. If Parliament is dealing with things that should not be dealt with [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u143	Amendment to Article 27, please, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u144	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u145	Amendment, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u146	I argue and advocate that we allow historians access to archival material, Madam President, and as Parliament, let us work on what we will do, how we will create conditions for new jobs, for the growth of gross social product, for economic growth, for the well-being of the population. That's what people have chosen us for! Have we forgotten? You know, people who are hungry are probably having a hard time looking at us, and they're listening with a heavy heart. But sooner or later, everyone should catch up with the past and other people should do so, and it would be best for us parliamentarians to remain silent in this regard. Quietly, for whatever reason, it is for political purposes. No one's gonna say that's not true! That's right. Now one side that's in power is using it a little bit, then the other side [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u147	Mr. Vogrin, please come to the subject of today [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u148	and, of course, there is no end and no place, Madam President. [[…]] Anyway, I said what I wanted to say. Let's deal with the future, not the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss the amendment to Article 27? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. I'm moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is the third defensive proposal of the Energy Act, which is within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mag. Bojan Kumer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have a third consideration of the proposal for a new energy law. The way this law has been passed in recent months has been exceptional and, above all, effective. The proposal before us today is the product of long-term work and intensive coordination with all stakeholders in the process. Returning information from the vast energy professional public gives us the belief that the law is good and that amendments adopted so far have only improved it. On this occasion, may I also sincerely thank the professional services of the National Assembly for their assistance in the preparation of the amended bill and, of course, also to all of you, Members and Members, I sincerely thank you for allowing the law to be here today and that it is as it is. The law transposes the provisions of the ten European directives governing the energy market and the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources into the Slovenian legal order. We are also new to the field of strategic documents of energy policy and energy infrastructure. Let me introduce the law once again. The law lays down legislative frameworks for energy policy, but it is not a law act that sets out the objectives and content of energy policy. The EZ-1 Act therefore lays down the legal basis and lays down the framework for the adoption of national strategic documents setting out long-term guidelines for future use and supply of energy. It also establishes a new structure for strategic documents. The basic development document will be the energy concept of Slovenia, which will set the objectives of competitive, sustainable and secure energy supply for the next twenty years and indicatively for the next forty years. On the basis of the energy concept of Slovenia, a state energy development plan will be prepared, which is a framework plan for more important investments in energy infrastructure. The aim of the law is also to redefine the common rules of the internal market for electricity and natural gas, in accordance with European legislation. The law will contribute significantly to strengthening competition and consumer rights while at the same time helping to create conditions for greater security of supply. The area of production and use of renewable energy is governed by a new law. In order to ensure a long-term sustainable electricity support scheme from renewable sources, the new law gives the Government greater powers to decide which technologies and to what extent will be promoted in the future. In doing so, we are committed to meeting the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia and, on the other hand, we aim to minimise the burden on energy consumers with additional costs. The law also brings new developments in energy efficiency. Most of the innovation is in the area of the building sector, where there are very large potentials for reducing energy consumption and costs for it. In particular, the leading role of the public sector is highlighted, as energy costs are burdened by the budget of the state and local communities. The new law also regulates an area that has not been fully regulated so far, it is the distribution of heat. The main objective of regulating this area is to ensure reliable and safe heat supply from completed networks, taking into account the natural monopoly of distributors and the implementation of the distribution of heat in the local community domain. As a consequence, the law regulates the protection of customers, both in terms of supply and in terms of pricing and contractual obligations. In addition to regulatory regulation, control and regulation are also necessary for the efficient functioning of the energy market. These tasks are carried out by an independent energy market regulator, the Energy Agency, whose law now sets out in detail how the energy market works and its tasks. EZ-1 also newly regulates the field of energy infrastructure. In order to further develop the energy sector, the provisions are essential to simplify and accelerate the placement of energy facilities into space. Dear Members and Members! Finally, let me point out the following. First time. The new law will increase the transparency of legal regulation and thus legal certainty. It should be said that the 1999 law in force is obsolete, outdated and has been amended five times, making it imprecise and impractical for use. Another time. In preparing the bill, we have made sure that administrative burdens are removed as far as possible from the Ministry and that no new unnecessary administrative procedures are prescribed, which will make it significantly easier for companies to operate on the energy market. Third time. The law sets a framework for promoting energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy, which contributes to our objectives of reducing greenhouse gas missions and encouraging green economic growth. Fourth time. A well-functioning energy market will provide competitive energy prices, which will have a positive impact on both households and the economy. We must be aware that a well-functioning market is a fundamental prerequisite for economic growth and a way out of the crisis. Your Honor! As has been mentioned many times before, failure to implement the Directives threatens us with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which would impose a high fine on the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the law must be adopted as soon as possible. In doing so, a team at the Ministry, who did an excellent job and I thank her once again in this place, is counting on your support. Right now we're on the right track, which I sincerely thank you for.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bevk will be the first to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! We have before us a third review of the energy law, a law which, with more than 550 articles, is the basis of regulation of Slovenian energy and is an excellent basis for the new energy concept of Slovenia, and is also one of the most extensive laws we adopt in this mandate of the National Assembly. The energy law, now that it is just before adoption, would not be too much to lose words because there was much to be said in previous cases. We have only held over 16 hours of debate on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a working body. We will, of course, support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats. We will also support the amendments tabled by parliamentary parties to the coalition for third reading. Above all, it is an important third amendment that amends the transitional provisions of the energy cards. We are following a European directive that requires us to sell energy cards or rent apartments. However, with the amendment, we are burdening the owners of the apartments. As a result of this amendment, it will not be necessary to obtain an energy card for the owners of dwellings who will not sell or broadcast their properties. It is also important that the amendment in some way relieves the sale of dwellings in 2014. With the gradual introduction of an energy card, a moratorium on advertising and penalties, we are mitigating the pressure on potential real estate sellers in 2014 precisely because of the sensitive dynamics of the real estate market, in which the immediate introduction of energy cards could have irreparable consequences. Although the parliamentary procedure for the adoption of this law has been somewhat delayed, I hope that we will not be punished by the European Court of Justice for the late implementation of the two directives of the European Commission, as these penalties would amount to around EUR 20,000 per day. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the energy law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Marko Pavlisič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We have before us the final stage of the adoption of the new energy law. It introduces the third European Union energy package into the Slovenian legal order. It is a matter of extensive material, and it is therefore right that the applicant has decided on a new law, not a patchwork and a flaking of the existing law. The implementation of this law is only the first step in serious changes needed in Slovenian energy. The changes will continue with the energy concept of Slovenia, which will determine, on the basis of the country's economic, environmental and social development projects and on the basis of the international commitments adopted, reliable, sustainable and competitive energy supply for a period of approximately 40 years. In the first place, it is about changes in the field of energy efficiency. The cheapest and environmentally acceptable energy source is actually an efficient use of energy. In the new energy law, this area is comprehensively processed and addressed. The law also introduces a series of provisions that will serve to protect consumers and facilitate their transition between energy suppliers or suppliers of electricity or natural gas. In this segment, it is essential for the consumer to derogate from a contract on the supply of natural gas or electricity without the payment of a contract penalty, compensation or compensation if the termination takes effect after one year of conclusion. This provision will significantly limit the linkage with domestic customers and, on the other hand, facilitate the transition between suppliers and thus create a more competitive environment. It is also for the benefit of users that the charging of flat-rate costs is also prohibited in the ordinary offer and remains possible in the case of action offers. With this, users will pay for what they benefit. The law also provides for the same protection for small business customers of electricity and natural gas in certain parts as for consumers. This will also allow small business customers free of charge to withdraw from the contract within one year of conclusion. The Energy Agency will also run a price comparator for them, the pricers will have to be made public, it is prohibited to charge the costs of the supplier's regular price operation, and they will be given the option of leaving without notice. Consumer protection, which is basically intended for household customers, extends to small business customers because we want the market to work on the small business customers segment to lower prices. Customers in this segment are buying electricity in larger quantities than domestic customers and prices are still higher, and this anomaly shows that something is wrong with business practice, which is harmful to the market and competitiveness. Therefore, protection for household consumers is also extended to small business customers in order to pay less for electricity and natural gas. If, in our first reading of this law, we have desired a happy path through the curved legislative towers, I can only now point out that we will also support this law in this final act in the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Representative of the Government, Ladies and Members of Parliament! Before I present the position of my party, the Slovenian People's Party, to the Energy Bill as the first of the opposition Members, I would first like to commend the coalition. I would like to commend her for having succeeded in such an extensive, mega-Romanian law, at least in the third reading, to include her in the regular meeting of the National Assembly. The Energy Act, with its more than 500 members, is adopted in the National Assembly on a regular basis, which is rare for the current coalition, but the first and second treatment of the Energy Law was carried out at two extraordinary meetings at the end of last year. Above all, the first hearing was held even before the reference to a public presentation of opinions, which is, to say the least, unusual and, in my opinion, unacceptable. In the Slovenian People's Party, in the first reading of the Energy Law Proposal, we said that we would expect the proposer to first present a decent energy concept in the National Assembly in order to speak openly about the direction Slovenian energy will go, and only then to introduce this law into the legislative process. It also addresses the law on the Infrastructure and Space Committee, in the absence of this strategic document, as the yoke of the snake, and I fear that this proposal, which we have today on the table, has so many shortcomings that it would be difficult to support in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the proposed energy law, accompanied by a convenient excuse for the transposition of European directives, actually gives citizens a new boost, whether it is the area of electricity, heating or new energy cards. Let's go in one order. The proposed law equates the rights of small businesses with households and has different criteria for different energy consumers; electricity is an important force and gas is an important annual consumption. Why? The law introduces regular and action prices for energy consumers, which by no means falls within a serious energy law, but rather into the Consumer Protection Act. Why should the selection of packages be limited to one year for the final customer? I wonder who doesn't enjoy a greater supply of packages on the market, who doesn't prefer to compete with more bidders. Who can explain to me what is the difference between mobile service providers and energy service providers that there is a need to act on the energy market through such unreasonable measures to prevent healthy competition? Let me touch the energy cards now. The profession has told its own about these energy cards, which are a good measure, but because of the obvious impact of certain lobbies, it has already been born at its inception. What is needed, otherwise beneficial, is to bring in overnight, if not to allow again some to make quick and easy profits. It is true that the European Directive prescribes such a measure, but both the professional public and consumer representatives are united: the measure is under-thinking, the energy cards will be too expensive, it does not contain enough information and does not have built-in incentives, such as lower real estate tax or greater benefits in obtaining credits and subsidies. Just as it is prepared in this law, the introduction of energy cards will only lead to an increase in real estate prices on one hand and a rich service of money to manufacturers on the other. Unless amendments are adopted regarding the transitional period, we can also expect that the already weak real estate market will further deteriorate. Everything mentioned in the Slovenian People's Party just confirms our already expressed dilemma that there is again an influential energy lobby here, which is subject not only to the ministry, but also to the whole government and coalition. While I can assume that the coalition electoral machine will vote in favour of the proposal for an energy law, I am sure that this law will soon require an amendment due to many anomalies. It may be necessary to consider for such an extensive field of energy and, given the scope of the law, that the content of the energy law should be divided into several laws, thus obtaining more quality and substantively rounded packages. Nevertheless, I will take this opportunity and, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, once again, call on the Minister and Government of the Republic of Slovenia to really prepare the energy concept as soon as possible, so to prepare a strategy for the development of Slovenian energy. Why? We have already said this from this city, and I will say this again: so that we will no longer have different TEŠ 6 events, that we will know how much and what hydropower plants we want to clearly record, whether or not we will have a second block of nuclear power plant, that we will finally build an energy map and that we will also draw a timetable for the implementation of energy projects as part of our financial capabilities. If I finish. This proposal for an energy law because of everything I have said will not receive the support of the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party. However, we will, of course, support the amendment which allows for a transitional period in relation to energy cards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well-known Secretary of State, Mr. Kumer, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Secretary of State, Mr Kumer, has given a novelty to the energy law, so I will not waste any time on it alone, but in the presentation of the position I would first touch on the most responsible subject matter, which is an energy card which is of greater importance in this bill. It is made according to the principle we know, for example, in household appliances. The Energy Card plays a very important role in marking the energy efficiency of buildings. Under the provisions of the law, the issuer of an energy card will be obliged to report any issued card or its revocation to the competent Ministry of Registration. Of course, citizens and citizens are more interested in how much this energy card will cost them. There are various indications in the media about the price of an energy card, about penalties and so on, which is quite upsetting for people, as the allegations are often incorrect. Therefore, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group at this site are urged by the competent ministry to start responding to incorrect reports on energy cards in the media. Citizens and citizens deserve clear and accurate explanations about the price of the energy card, who will have to have it, when to obtain it, and what penalties there are for offenders. In the DeSUS Group, we are also critical that we often introduce stricter requirements into our legislation than European directives. This puts our citizens and citizens in an unequal position compared to other citizens and citizens of the European Union, which I think is unacceptable. Energy law is not the only case, but it is currently the most up to date. In the media, it has been argued that the content of the Energy Law proposal extends the requirements of the Directive concerning energy cards. Therefore, the provisions of the bill are stricter than the requirements of the Directive. While the directive requires an energy card for rent only for new tenants, our proposal should impose broader obligations. There is also a broader set of facilities that need a card, since we should also need an energy card when renting apartments and dwellings for a period less than one year and when selling or broadcasting holiday houses. However, it seemed particularly controversial to us that, contrary to the directive, the law should also introduce a general obligation to obtain an energy card at a time delay, since it would not be possible for an old multi-family building and a unit that is not subject to sale or rental. The DeSUS Group will support the Third reading Energy Law proposal, as with the proposed amendments to the coalition, we are still dealing with some of the dilemmas that we have had. I am referring in particular to the amendment to Article 541 of the bill, which deletes the provision that multi-entity buildings must obtain an energy card no later than 2019 and 2030 and is defined in paragraph 2 of this Article. This provision is above the requirement of the directive, which I have pointed out earlier. By deleting this provision, obligations for owners are reduced, which of course we support in the DeSUS Group. We are also pleased that the amendment of the coalition to Article 36 takes into account the comments made by the professional public, energy distributors and system operators and the opposition regarding the definition of a small business customer, which clearly distinguishes the difference between them and domestic consumers, since they cannot and must not be equal. Finally, I would like to reiterate that Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposal of the law, while at the same time predicting in advance the support of the coalition amendments tabled. May I have another comment before the conclusion. In the process of addressing the energy law, we have failed with some of our comments and proposals. This is just the way it is in the coalition; if you do not have enough support from coalition partners for your proposal, you must give up your efforts in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u160	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Our society has become increasingly dependent on electricity and, of course, has been trying to use it as efficiently as possible in recent times. Slovenia is no different from other countries in this process. In order to reduce our energy dependence, we have decided, among other things, to implement the construction of the 6th block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj, to subsidise solar power plants. We believe that these decisions have taken place with little thoughtfulness and without a proper professional basis. The construction of TES 6 has grown to the most expensive investment of Slovenian energy so far because of poor and reckless management and is like a fiasco rather than a success story. The reckless subsidisation of photovoltaics also returns to us as boomerang, because at random moments from these sources, there are large amounts of energy coming into the system that cause a lot of overkills to the whole system. The electricity market is a very sensitive system that needs rapid responses and, on the other hand, it is economically ruthless and mainly follows the legality of supply and demand. Christian Democrats believe that, in the context of renewable energy sources, we should bet mainly on the elements that Slovenia overcomes and controls, particularly on water and geothermal energy. Unfortunately, projects in the middle of the Sava River are largely due to the lack of the will of key decision makers, in particular the irresponsible behaviour of Arsa and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. It should be noted that the construction of hydroelectric power plants is also relevant in terms of the relaunching of the Slovenian economy, as around 90% of equipment and infrastructure can be provided by Slovenian companies. With regard to the new energy law, however, we believe that Christian Democrats should have adopted a national energy programme before that, where we could see our energy strategy for the coming decades. Only then would it make sense to draw up an energy law that would follow more specifically the guidelines of such a strategy. The Christian Democrats of the Energy Law, which is before us today, will not be supported, in particular, by the following shortcomings or things we do not support. We find it unacceptable that the provisions on free service for energy infrastructure on land owned by a country or municipalities that is not an exception, so that investors in energy infrastructure will not be obliged to any compensation for interventions to a space, limited use of space and lower value of such properties. This is particularly true in the area of the Republic of Slovenia, where very profitable transferable gas pipelines will take place for the sale of natural gas in other countries, or if I say this slightly more domestically: when the southern flow will be built over Slovenia and on the land of the municipalities and the country where this southern flow will take place, companies building this southern flow will not have to pay for the service for these municipal and state land. If we know that the southern flow that will take place across Slovenia will at least turn over more than 100 million euros annually, then it seems fair and fair to us in New Slovenia that part of this money will also be given to municipalities and countries where this southern flow will flow. With the provisions contained in the energy law, we are literally excluding this, since we are preventing municipalities and the country of land where this southern flow is taking place from receiving an adequate payment for service. The next thing that we find unjustifiable and questionable is the price of energy cards, which mainly represent an additional burden for real estate owners, at a time when this government has already charged them with real estate taxes. Christian Democrats point to the possibility that the energy cards will be another story of unnecessary and pointless requirements for taxpayers, which are determined only to allow profitable business and permanent rents for some who have connections with each authority. Do you still remember the infamous sign-up sticker with data on the registration of motor vehicles from the past governments? They were a huge cost to the state and the citizens, but there was no concrete impact. In short, as I have said, the Christian democrats of the energy law will not fail and we very much want and hope that irregularities, and above all questionable things in the law, will not cause excessive damage to the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Ambassadorial Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u162	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In view of the debates and developments at the time of the adoption of the energy law, I would like to reiterate the key starting points, the circumstances of the creation and the content of the law. The Energy Act is a document covering the electricity market, the natural gas market, heat supply, renewable energy sources, efficient energy use, regulation of the Energy Agency, energy infrastructure and transport of carbon dioxide. It transposes at least ten European directives into our legal order and lays down legal measures for the enforcement of the six regulations of the European Union, takes into account the findings of the Court of Auditors and the decision of the Constitutional Court. The procedure for the examination and adoption of legislation is necessary and time-limited due to delays in the transposition of directives in the European Court of Justice. Because of the large scope of the areas covered, the law is extensive and the text is difficult. There are quite a few changes to energy policy. The national energy programme will replace the energy concept of Slovenia, which will be long-term and will only provide strategic direction in the field of energy. The provisions of local strategies will ensure that energy targets are achieved and are in line with the national energy development plan. Local energy concepts will be fundamental acts and will need to be aligned with spatial acts by local communities. The aim of energy policy changes under this law is to direct potential investors to long-term investments in energy, to efficient use of energy and to promote the use of renewable energy sources. However, the production of energy through local dispersion also allows the creation of new jobs. The law establishes an energy management system in the public sector, sets energy efficiency targets and foresees measures to achieve these objectives while at the same time establishing a way of verifying these objectives. This enables the requirements of energy cards. The public sector is expected to play a leading role in the field of efficient energy use, which should be ensured by the proper management and maintenance of the buildings they need. Investments in the energy rehabilitation of buildings can be one of the key measures to come out of the economic crisis. Energy services and the use of products mainly domestic production can generate high added value per unit of investment while reducing budget spending by lower energy costs. In the field of remote heating, the law provides for two forms of distribution of heat, cooling and other energy gases, market distribution and selective public economic service. In the case of market distribution, the operation of the distributor is completely marketable, while in the form of a public economic service, the law also follows the public interest of the local community and is regulated on the one hand by regulated pricing in the distribution of heat for heating, while the mandatory connection and heating from the system can be established. The local community will provide synergies in the area of optimal energy supply by choosing the form of economic public service, since it is possible to supply a larger area from the remote heating system. The decision on the form of the distribution will therefore be made in the local community domain. However, economic public service is compulsory when it provides for more than 100 households and consequently price regulation. This law also transposes the regulation of the prices of heat suppliers supplying over 30% of the annual distribution of heat per network. The tasks and responsibilities of the regulation shall be entrusted to the Energy Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which already has experience in regulating prices for the scope of pipeline networks. The law also regulates the control of support schemes, which is given the powers of the Government to adopt support schemes plans and thus foresees an increase in investment in renewable energy production facilities and co-generation of heat, taking into account the achievement of intermediate targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency. The Energy Agency will be obliged to take into account the conditions set out in the action plans to be adopted by the Government in the annual implementation of public calls for EEE projects and co-production of heat into support schemes, thereby preventing uncontrolled investment policy without taking into account the availability of resources. The binding target of 25% of renewable energy sources in 2020 provides for a less energy-consumption law, while energy savings are cheaper than those produced. For energy-sales companies, the existing mandatory energy savings schemes for businesses are changing. It is envisaged that energy suppliers will have to achieve a certain share of energy savings at their expense. The 20% energy efficiency target will be achieved through a gradual increase in energy suppliers' obligations and approximately half of the savings are foreseen through the Eco-Fund incentives. The law commits large companies to a mandatory energy review every four years. Energy costs account for up to 25 % of all costs in companies, so this measure is justified in following the objective of improving the competitiveness of companies and the cost of the review itself is reimbursed in very short time when the measures are implemented. The law will also have an important impact on consumer protection. The deadline for the implementation of the supplier's exchange procedures is set. A common contact point is envisaged to ensure access to important information for consumers. Suppliers are committed to an effective way of dealing with consumer complaints, defining vulnerable customers and enabling them to supply energy urgently. In view of the fact that there have been a lot of comments from the professional public on the content of the law and a lot of coherence in the adoption process, I believe that the proposed content of the law is a product which represents the optimal possible compromise between requirements and options. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we support the amendments proposed today by the coalition. With them, the only thing he'll get is the quality of the marriage. However, we have already met with the proposed amendments of the opposition and we are rejecting them again. A positive Slovenia will support the energy law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have a third consideration of a very extensive and difficult law governing the whole field of energy. It is a system law that went through a detailed examination at the working body and also through a second reading at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Much has been done to improve the marriage to the fullest extent possible. Many comments from stakeholders and the Legal and Legislative Service have been taken into account by the introduction and adoption of amendments with the aim and purpose of improving the content of the law itself, but the fact that the law is too extensive and to a large extent imprecise. The main motive in preparing this law was to transpose 10 directives in the gas and electricity fields into our legal order, thereby avoiding lawsuits and sanctions that would affect us, but in addition to the requirements of this third energy package, there are still many other changes in this law, which are incomplete and in particular cover the interests of certain lobbying, which will enable some to make good profits and the citizens to hit their pockets. A few key points to this law. The law brings forth a number of new bureaucratic obstacles that should be reduced, not brought into new legislation. However, the adoption of such a demanding and extensive law by emergency procedure has prevented further coordination, verification and improvement of individual content. We have not been able to remove the key weaknesses of this law, this is mainly the part relating to simplification, reduction of administration and excessive red tape. For example, the previous agreement of the Minister for Local Energy Concept, the harmonisation of the Act, which is higher – the municipal spatial plan or the local energy concept – and similar bureaucratic problems. In practice, this will cause problems and in a few months, the law will probably have to be amended. These are purely bureaucratic matters that needlessly increase the administration and in some ways prolong the procedures. In the area of the system operator of the electricity distribution network, the proposal of the law also seeks to introduce changes in order to ensure that the economic public service of the distribution operator can also be carried out in part of the territory of the country or in the whole area, which may be followed by several system operators. We must say that this provision was amended by the Committee within the meaning of the provisions of the current law and the original text of the proposed law was adopted at the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly. In this regard, we have therefore re- tabled amendments to Articles 78, 80 and 81 in the SDS Group of Members, as the second-reading coalition groups in the National Assembly considered it better to leave the regime as it is in force and not in the proposed law. These provisions thus state that the activity of the distribution network system operator is a compulsory economic public service designated by the government for a maximum period of 50 years. The State granted a concession to SODO in 2007 to operate the economic public service of the system distribution network operator throughout the Republic of Slovenia for a period of 50 years. Therefore, we do not see the need for the concession to be divided in micro areas, since this has already been regulated for the next 50 years by granting a concession exclusively to one legal person. There is something similar in the field of energy cards. Around this was a very broad debate on the committee, from which we probably all learned something. We were able to figure out the price of this energy card. The ministry talked about the price of the card about 1 euro per square meter, which would mean for one apartment house circus 150 square euros. But if we look at the website, it clearly says how much the energy card costs for such an object – a circus of 600 euros. Looking at data from abroad, the price of an energy card, for example, in the UK, for a one-bedroom apartment is about €42 and for a three-bedroom house about €54. Why does the energy card cost us so much? Because all science has emerged around this document, which is basically a technical document, and it is a very extensive administrative bureaucrat procedure. Given that the energy card is valid for 10 years, such provisions will allow certain lobbyists every 10 years to make a potential profit of around €200 million. Why do we impose more obligations on real estate owners than is absolutely necessary and why is the obligation to produce an energy card expanding through the minimum requirements of the European Union directives? In this case, in discussions and in coordination, we have not been able to simplify what the directive actually imposes on us. Does it really require all this licensing, registration in additional registers, unusually strict conditions for obtaining a license for experts and so on, which, of course, further undermines the process of obtaining an energy card? Since we read this directive differently, we cannot agree with the solution in law. We insist on simplifying the procedure in order to eliminate the administrative bureaucratic story because, in our view, it is totally unnecessary, which is also evidenced by experience in other countries. Simplification would therefore also mean an appreciation for the production of an energy document, which all buildings will have to have later on. We also believed that in the coalition you would summarize the solutions in the substantive debate on Articles 428 and 429, in the third reading, these are Articles 429 and 430, and take into account the views of the Legislative and Legal Service, which points out the legal inadequacy of the solution and constitutional dispute. The article was partially amended on the committee, but we expected a substantive amendment from the coalition to be tabled to solve the problem, but it is not. All other articles referring to the regulatory agency are closed and cannot be amended. With these provisions, which are most problematic, the applicant shall exempt the Agency from the system of public agencies. Excluding the provisions applicable to all public agencies in this country, these provisions will not apply to that agency. This is justified by the fact that, at European requirements, the Agency must be independent. Then why do we have the Law on Public Agencies? Have not many Members of this coalition, at the time of the establishment of many new agencies, explained that we must have these agencies precisely in order to be independent and independent? The Law on Public Agencies states that a public agency shall be established if, according to the nature or nature of the tasks, it is not necessary or appropriate to maintain and direct political control over the performance of the tasks and that the Agency is independent in the performance of the tasks. The proposed energy law, however, introduces completely independent provisions on the operation of this regulator, excluding it from the legal order. The regulator will have extremely high powers and political control at the level of the National Assembly. We do not know a similar case in Europe. It is stated in the articles that in cases where this agency has expressed doubts that an energy undertaking does not operate in accordance with the laws, without specific arguments, a court decision may be obtained within twenty-four hours. In doing so, it is possible to review everything: premises, telephones, electronic documentation, databases, committees, business relationships. Therefore, in our view, this Article is inadequate as it is an infringement of the Criminal Procedure Act. In doing so, we point once again to Articles 36 and 37 of the Constitution, since we do not understand how a person employed by the Energy Agency who does not have specific inspections – by the way, these must carry out an expert examination – even though police or criminal skills and experience can conduct such an investigation properly. There is a possibility that evidence will be eliminated due to inadequately managed proceedings, thereby destroying the purpose of the applicant. This leaves a lot of questions unclear. Nevertheless, we also support the SDS Group as soon as possible the energy concept of Slovenia as a key strategic document for future energy development. To avoid reckless decisions and partial interests, such as the photovoltaic scheme, as well as previous discussions on TES. Many useful comments have already been made by amendments to the Infrastructure and Space Committee itself in order to improve this law. However, because of all that is stated in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. First of all, he's got the word "mag." Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u166	Dear colleagues and colleagues! You know what I'm going to focus on in my debate, this is on the famous 474th article, which I have repeatedly stressed and I always discuss. This is an article that allows free service for companies that will build the southern flow in Slovenia. Since I come from the Kamnik Congregation alone, this is one of the municipalities where this route of the southern flow is to take place, I cannot possibly accept the fact that our local congregation will not be able or will not be able to attach its pot to this project. This simply does not seem acceptable to me, especially because I know that this Southern Stream project will turn EUR 100 million per year and that the municipalities will not receive a fraction of it. This is what I cannot accept and what I cannot accept, and it seems unacceptable to me that the government coalition or government, if you want, will even write down in the law that there is a free or unpaid opportunity for service on the land where the South Stream route will take place. You know which way all the pressure is going to go, that free will happen. I find it difficult to find the reasons and arguments why the government has agreed to such a dictatorship. I understand that Gazprom is a strong company with money, greater than the Slovenian state budget, that representatives of this company meet with the highest peaks of Slovenian policy. Yet, we could still look at our local congregations in this regard, and at least for me it will be one of the fundamental reasons why I will oppose this energy law. In addition, energy cards are problematic. There was a lot of talk about it, and a lot of people stressed it. I'm not going to go through these things again, but we can't get past the feeling that this is once again a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for someone at the expense of the citizens to earn well. Now, if this is the system in which the economy revolves – okay, although it is a little bit unusual that the state has to provide you with a certain source of revenue with a certain provision. In order not only to criticize, I must also acknowledge to the team of the Minister and Secretary of State that this extensive matter has been brought into one law. This, now that the common law was a collection or was made up of larger different laws, we are now putting it into one marriage. The arguments are certainly that in one marriage the matter will be more transparent, that everything will be in one place. There are other reasons, however, to say that such an extensive law is also an excellent and unique opportunity for possible framed articles. These are articles that allow certain lobbyists a permanent pension. Despite everything I have said, I am not a conspiracy theorist, I believe that they did so in good faith at the Ministry and that the main argument was why this energy law was put under one roof, especially that they wanted to have it all together in a transparent and one marriage. I hope, as I said before, that this energy law will not cause any more damage to the Slovenian economy than it will do.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Meh has the next word. Get ready, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State! It is not quite in the context of this agenda item, but I think it is an important question why this law was not adopted last year, why it was not adopted before last year, why we had enough time available. The European directives should have been adopted a year ago, a year and a half ago, or two years ago – why didn't we adopt this? This is the answer to the question of who is not satisfied today and who protested that this law should have been passed long ago – remember today’s debate. My purpose wasn't really that. The law completely regulates energy relations, so to speak, organisation, regulation and, in some way, how we will regulate energy in one place and also comparable to each other, which I think is good, regardless of how we would not always talk about who was interested in it. I believe that everyone in energy, because it's about energy, and energy had to make its comments. However, we, who are the current policy, have tried to regulate energy in a way that will continue to be successful. I believe that's what we did. We accepted the law quickly, yet thoroughly and for a long time. I would also like to express my appreciation this time that it has been hard many times, a long time, that we have talked very hard about individual solutions, but we have found at the end of the solution, which meant that we have improved the law and that we have regulated individual areas in energy. In fact, we were able to say what was heard, even at the public presentation after that marathon night session, when we were sitting here until seven, and then there was a public presentation of opinions at ten, and we watched a little of this, and we weren't very much here when we talked about it. So it seems to me that this law has settled those foundations that must be settled. Therefore, it was not necessary, but it would be necessary for us to have an energy concept, since this energy concept will in fact tell us in which direction and in what way Slovenia will regulate its energy supply or self-sustainment in the field of individual energy. I think that the energy card has cut the most between residents and residents and that through the amendments, through agreements, through the easing of all this in the energy card, we have done the minimum that I can here today with a peaceful conscience. That is why I will support the law because I think it contains all the solutions that do not solve every specific problem, but cover it. Much work has been done, as only those who have ever done anything in such an area know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor. Prepare to be Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u170	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In an energy law that will be passed by the ruling coalition, I would point out some segments that I consider to be weak and which make it impossible for me to support this law. As a basis and as a basic framework under which the energy law should be followed, the energy concept of the Republic of Slovenia is to indicate the direction in which the energy sector in our country should go in the future. This is the basic data on which operational, strategic and other energy objectives are being built. I see a significant flaw mainly in the protection of household customers. For example, take the example of an energy crisis. To a minimum, a small household customer must be protected; in this law, we have equalized the household customer with the business customer. Let someone explain to me how we can protect the household customer, and if we have a business entity with us. Very hard! Then I see no real professional reason why the public energy agency has been exempted from the Law on Public Agencies. I have an interesting question here. I see a purposeful preparation of this exception, because it can become some sort of a frame-up range. It will be interesting, say in a year or two, to see or get information on how many new staff there are in this agency, of course, and the award in an agency outside the Law on Public Agencies is different. In short, once again some open polygon that is in some way out of order. I'd say the biggest family is an energy card. Do you even know what an energy card is?Oh, my God! The energy card is a sheet of A4 paper on which there are three, four energy data on the facility provided by the designer; and from this energy card we are working in this law as if it were some great science. Yes, it's science for those who prepare their own range to serve with this document. However, not only will it be on one sheet of A4 paper, they will allege that I do not yet say the technical report of the designer, and so on, that they will justify their price, which is supposed to be between €300 and €600. I come from a technical profession, I believe that the value of this energy card is somewhere between €30 and €40. It's just a collection of some data from the designer. And this law is based on this energy card, as if it were the science and profession of the energy of universal Slovenia! There's only a few details. But it is very important who will serve with this document. I'd say there's even a suspicion that the minister will open a new company if I put this in comparison with his business on Dars. Thus, it is once again a cost by which in this situation this ruling coalition places a heavy burden on those who today will survive for an extremely low amount of money, to sell part of their property so that they can survive. And now with the law and the law we're introducing, I'd say, completely unnecessary costs. For me, the energy card is an entirely unnecessary cost! This information can be found in the design and technical documentation processed by the electrical designer. However, in that segment, we could commit to putting this data a little bit more out of the question, a little less technically, a little bit more understandable for all the others who don't know that much. And here we have made a big family out of this energy card. Of course, because of this law, I cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Several of the Members who have been registered have checked out, so I am now calling on Mr Vogrin, who I also see is not in the Chamber. Mr. Ivan Simčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, we are back to another directive of the European Union that we need to adapt to. But when we read the law, I have to stop at the energy cards again, which is a new trend in the market, and we're going to pick someone up again at the bottom of a hierarchy in this country. Let me just remind you, in neighbouring Croatia, during the first days of the introduction of energy cards, about 200 000 properties were withdrawn for sale for energy cards as an additional cost to the seller. If I go back to Article 474, when we're talking about service. If this is a good solution in the law, I do not agree with this, because it obviously has a southern flow, perhaps a pipeline, and probably a gas pipeline leg again, a base that goes on the land, it will again be left in some real estate law for the mercy and mercy of a certain cadastral congregation and the owner himself. But what's interesting is that when we talk about the highway, all the highways go around this country, the pipeline will cross our country, but for free. I have some words written by John Cankar years ago, but by what time and by which time we will not appreciate our country, our land, and our people. Energy cards — we know who they're going to hurt; free land theft — we also know who they're going to hurt. And now, when we talk more than once about the European Union directive, how much fines would be paid from TES 6 to 800 000 per billion 400. There are between 60% and 70% of the energy in the forest in this loving country, and we are happy to warm up to gas and oil. When will this country adopt a strategy to produce energy from its sources at home first? That we will not always be dependent, as the colleague has already said, on some energy crisis, and someone will shut down the tentacles and we will watch each other. Today, not today, Ukraine has been hunting the streets for the last three months! That's what this is all about. We boast of natural assets, with forests, and we give a lot of land for gas pipelines. If that's a good law - fine. But I don't think you're gonna have to come in two three months with a new law and this thing to people and citizens and citizens of this country to fix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor, please. Mr Ivan Hršak and Mr Jožef Horvat are preparing for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! I think we had one very constructive debate or introduction to the debate on this law on Friday at an extraordinary meeting on the so-called TES 6, when it was actually seen that some energy concept of Slovenia from the construction or until the final construction of TES 6, we do not need any more. I must say that I have paid particular attention to the opinion of the Positive Slovenia Group throughout the debate on energy law, and I must say that today the story has been repeated, and that the Members of this party should forgive me that they do not actually have an opinion on this law, but have read almost literally in their position the introductory explanation and the objectives and purposes of the law. This, however, leads to the fact that we know roughly when, who, and how this law was created. Nevertheless, I must say that perhaps only one thanks to the Secretary of State, that he only saw in the debate of his mother's working body, that certain Members, both from the coalition and from the opposition, had good suggestions and had taken them into account, some of them, of course, had to take into account on the recommendation of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the public presentation it had been. Although I was not present, I read — very constructively and well. I must say that in this law I was most disturbed and saddened when we referred so much to the adoption of European directives, and in the end we could see that many times we have copied from European directives what is not in these directives; or sometimes, what was worse, that we have entered into the law matters that are being touched by European directives, but they are not as rigorous as we have put into this energy law. In short, once again the fact that we are Slovenians usually, especially where it is not necessary, is confirmed that we are more papal than the pope. The price of this vote and our words will be paid by taxpayers in one way or another. In short, there are many too many guidelines in this law, what is going to happen in practice, and everything is going to go into that red tape at least in this area is going to be a lot more prosperous than it is now. In fact, I find it strange, given that the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of Space and Infrastructure are coming from the same party, but while one minister is talking about how red tape needs to be reduced, we have a lot of things in this law that make our Slovenian bureaucracy even more rich. But if we have too much red tape on one side, we have too little concrete facts or too little concept on the other. As I said before, I would agree with this if we close the story on Slovenian energy with the final story on TES 6. The law travels us to the energy concept of Slovenia, which, when and what it will be like – uglyly said, we have no idea, or at least the Government, with all due respect, has no idea, which is very much seen in the draft Slovenian State Holding Act as well as, as I said last time in the debate, at TES 6. The national development and energy plan, action plans, operational programmes, local energy concepts and so on should then be adopted. In short, it will be written long and late, at this point in the adoption of this law, and we do not even know what we will write in these operational programmes, guidelines and plans. The saddest of all is the question of the local energy concept, which will soon be reversed and will come back to us Members when municipal councillors and mayors ask us what nonsense we are going to do in the National Assembly, to then instruct municipal administrations to do something and go back to the hierarchy: the congregation – the country, the congregation – the country where the congregation will not have something, and the ministry will not give anything. Maybe two more things. When I was first reading, you took something out of the way. [[…]] [[Incomprehensible]] I had before me an article from mid-November 2013. When I asked the Secretary of State whether this article was true, I did not really get an answer, but the fact is that this article, and then I will take half a minute and I will read it in part, too little or too little detail. It says here: "The highest price for the issue of an energy card will not be fixed, but the ministry has prepared the criteria for determining the price, now between EUR 200 and EUR 500 for one apartment house and EUR 2 000 to EUR 3 000 for a multi-housing building." I had already warned that we are very close to the concept that we had in chimneys, even though we do not mention the concession here, but the license, but the concept is the same: some will earn. As one of the predecessors has already said, it will probably happen again that certain people from the Ministry themselves or through various connections and acquaintances set up different companies to create these energy cards, to pay fines, and, of course, as we have been accustomed to since 2013, to transmit the bill to taxpayers to a full extent. Let me get this straight. There is also a lot of talk about energy law in the renovation of public buildings. I have already asked the Minister a number of questions on this subject, and I really hope that he will continue the concept set by his predecessor when there were calls where the country was so good that it came to the aid of local communities. I see that a number of buildings owned by congregations, especially in the field of health and education, have already been restored on the basis of this call. And when there is a lot of talk about not knowing where to put the European money, leaving it where it should come from, Madam Secretary of State, to convey to the minister of godliness the wish to sign a new invitation to rebuild buildings owned by local communities as soon as possible, because the local communities are looking forward to this call. In short, we have become too bureaucratic with this law, but it is not a concept, so I will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Since we have a few more reviews, it is now up to Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. We have all found in our views that this is a very important law, but obviously this is not the case, because most of the debaters have given up their debates. I'd like to add something myself. Above all, I do not agree with some of the speakers who spoke about the need to prepare something quickly at the last minute and that the ministry has done a great deal of work here. This law has been practically on the lager for three years or more, and in the past it has been referred to as the Law of the kicker. And if you go to compare the last version of the law that was passed in Parliament about a year ago, just before the collapse of our government, it's practically 98% of the articles are the same. But it's true that the Secretary of State is a magician. The Kumer actually tried and tried to improve this law in this short time and also listened to a number of comments. I believe that if the law were to be dealt with according to normal procedure, but not by urgent procedure, a number of problems that would arise in the future as a result of the implementation of this law would also be resolved, because the will and willingness was on all sides, both coalition and opposition, to find better solutions than they are currently in law. But I have to ask the Secretary of State something because I'm interested. All the time we have considered this law, a great deal of pressure has been exerted on Members, the pressure that this law should be adopted by the end of the year is said to be in last year, because this is imposed on us by European directives and we will therefore pay the penalty. Now we will obviously adopt this law at the end of January, before it is published, more than a month and a half after a key deadline. I therefore wonder whether, in relation to this relationship with the European Commission and their obligations under this Title and the penalties that would have arisen if we did not adopt this Act by the end of the year, anything new. For this was a great reason for the law to be adopted following an urgent procedure and for us to be quick to discuss and address this matter at these hearings and extraordinary meetings. As I said in my position, we will not support this marriage. It still has a lot of imperfections and a lot of red tape, so we believe that a new law is likely to have to be passed in a short time, probably because of a new directive. Above all, we believe that this law should still be divided into a number of laws covering individual areas and thus make this matter transparent and, in some ways, useful for all those who later apply this law in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of the government. Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me first express my great gratitude to all of you, Members and Members, both on the side of the opposition and on the side of the coalition, that we have reached this content today, as it is. Personally, I believe that we have certainly improved it through the adoption process in the competent bodies and in the National Assembly. Nor will I keep a secret from the fact that there is no room to improve the energy law. However, as I have already said in a public presentation of opinions that the energy law will ever be so difficult, it has never been in the past, nor will it ever be in the future – I am personally very confident – that everyone will agree with it. Indeed, there are at least 2 million energy people living in Slovenia, and given that this has already been mentioned in the presentation of parliamentary groups today, everyone can, and it is also possible that he has an opinion on such important matter as energy. I personally very much agree with the criticism why Slovenia does not have an energy concept. It would be more appropriate and more professional and country-friendly to have the energy concept of Slovenia before, and then the law would actually be in agreement with the energy concept of Slovenia. It is difficult to identify why we do not have an energy concept – we can look at history and we can see that in 2004, a so-called national energy programme, which was largely affected by the Slovenian energy sector – was not adopted there, but only in the general public. And even later, the resolution stood on its way to the National Assembly and it is right that it remained, for there was neither a narrow consensus nor a discussion of any broader consensus. But we certainly do not run away from the responsibility that we have imposed ourselves in this law, where we wanted to break this negative connotation that the existing national energy programme had, which was a list of wishes, and if anyone sees in it a vector where Slovenian energy will go, let this vector show me. Believe me, it's hard to find it in Slovenian energy professionals to show it. And as I mentioned, we're not gonna run away from it. I hope that I will be part of a team that will be able to work on the energy concept of Slovenia as soon as this law is passed. There will also be a hot debate, invited all to participate in it, one way or another. And far from that, I am not in favour of the energy concept of Slovenia being created by the Ministry at or under the auspices of three, four people. It was never my approach, and it never will be. It has to be a part and it has to happen in the energy sector in Slovenia, and it will also happen as much as I think it will. I am sure that the Slovenian energy profession will be able to find some healthy consensus. But it is so on the other hand; as soon as we find a consensus in which some are identified, some will not be recognized on the other hand. We already know – and there is no point in lying – that those who do not recognize themselves in this consensus, which must be primarily good for the Slovenian state and especially for citizens and citizens, will then, of course, be very loud and will use all the means to warn themselves and why a consensual energy concept is not going to be such – or that it is not good. As far as fear is concerned, the energy law is based on energy cards, it is right to reassure our population that, after all, the energy card will be only mandatory for those who will sell their property or broadcast it for more than 12 months and that we wanted to protect the buyer here. In fact, the buyer will be the one who will buy the property and decide – usually, healthy – between two, three or five properties, preferably the same classification, the same squares, and so far the buyer has no idea what he is buying in terms of future energy costs. The energy card is a very effective instrument and through a constructive debate on the committee we also found with the opposition, I would say, one minimum consensus, according to my assessment of a very good consensus where we have preserved, on the one hand, that we have not evaluated the energy cards – because the energy professional public gives us right that it is a professional document. Yeah, maybe, so maybe there's an extra administrative burden, but it's not an evaluable charter that anyone at home could have made. In fact, for an energy card, I'm still saying, and I'm always going to say it's not a cost. This is an investment to pay less for energy costs in the future. This should be the basic guide of any energy expert who today advertises and may voice negative criticism to this effective instrument. Everywhere in Europe, most of them already have this instrument, and in the future perspective of the allocation of European funds will also be subject to the effective functioning of the energy card system. Slovenia is now taking some kind of prenatal steps, the market is only being established, and every week they are new licensed experts. It is difficult to say that there would be any oligopoly here if we had over a thousand experts working all over Slovenia in the second or third phase. However, we know how many properties are sold or sold in Slovenia. With the additional amendments we have added today, we have received feedback from the professional public, and it would be foolish to question them. The article is still open and if it can be improved, if it means good for citizens and citizens, let us do it. As for deadlines, on 30 May 2013 we started working on the law under the current working name EZ-1. After the then recruitments at all possible ends in both Slovenia and Brussels, we received quite clear assurances, of course there is never a 100% guarantee until Slovenia receives the penalty. With very high probability we were able to claim, and with these statements we have also come to the public that we are quite safe if we adopt the law by the end of 2013. I wanted to sign it, too, and I've talked about it a lot. Every month, God forbid, and a week later, the probability that we don't get tickets is so low. Thus, as you have already rightly stated, the law is likely to be adopted, in the middle of February in the Official Journal, we will immediately inform the European Commission that we have published it in the Official Journal. The translation has already been made, but it's only been finished with repairs. We are in a hurry to win each day and somewhere in March, but April will be the day we see whether the law will be properly notified and, of course, by withdrawing the action against Slovenia from the court. So here is essentially just a game of numbers or probability. As far as customer protection and equivalency are concerned with small business customers, I would like to explain further, because it seems quite valuable to me that we will not over-freak households. In fact, we do not compare households with small business customers, but small business customers with households and extend protection to existing households and add additional mechanisms and institutions to enable small business customers to benefit from good household practices. I firmly believe that this will mean lower burdens, lower prices for this additionally protected group, so-called small business customers. As far as the agency's concerned, maybe there's an extra one. Why was the agency exempted? It is not the only one in Slovenia, some of which have already been taken from the surviving Law on Public Agencies. At the time of Slovenia's transition to the European Union, the market in Slovenia was only being established, there was not at all in the domestic market segment, the agency was a prisoner and had its powers and its tasks, perhaps on the one hand in the European directive. Today, however, the whole directive is governed by an independent regulator and the agency is becoming a strong regulator and here, or after mature markets in the European Union. And it is right that we have independence, transparency and [[Incomprehensible]] provided by an independent regulator. We did not want to submit him to the government every time, and we wanted to submit him to the National Assembly. We believe that this is the most democratic and most correct and additional institution, where we will protect precisely the three institutions that we are now giving to the Agency. Is that where it's gonna work? I think it will be necessary to employ, i.e., the agency acquires more powers each year, more tasks by both the European regulator and the European directives, and this is a normal process if you are doing more, if you have more powers, if you have more tasks, if you have more tasks to expand the so-called resources, whether they are human resources, financial resources or any other informational resources. For a little while. I also agree with the guidance and advice that why one large-scale energy law. You know, when I talked to most of the Slovenian energy profession, they wanted one common denominator, they wanted one strong energy law. We all believe that this Slovenian energy sector needs it, now it will receive it, and the natural path in the future, which I am confident of, will be possible after one novel – not immediately, like two, three years, or earlier – the law will naturally fall apart on several sectoral laws. And it is right that a good sum should be made first and then that it goes into the areas of efficient energy use, renewable energy sources, the area of electricity, the area of other energy consumers, energy infrastructure and so on. That is how I think that this path will certainly be crossed in the future, and I see nothing wrong with it if we start with a common noun and we have some systemic law, which also eventually comes under the Slovenian energy profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 27 January 2014. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Would anyone like to discuss the amendment tabled? If he does not wish, I shall conclude the debate on the amendment tabled under Article 36. We are moving and putting to the debate Article 78 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He does. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. As I have already pointed out, we are proposing amendments to these three articles, which are related to the system operator. This is about keeping these amendments in order, as is now the case in the energy law, where we have a single system operator for the whole country, this is the SODO, and we do not agree with the proposal for a law that allows for more system operators to be established in Slovenia. We also rely on the Court of Auditors, which has pointed out in some documents the inadequacy in the law that refers to the transfer of certain tasks relating to the system operator. This is regulated in the current legislation, and the proposal before us allows for the transfer of individual tasks to an operator that is not yet defined, because, according to the proposal we have before us, it is permissible to define another system operator in a particular area of Slovenia, irrespective of economic eligibility, and to assign individual tasks to that operator, which are not clearly defined in the law. That is why we believe that this amendment of ours needs to be supported and maintained, as is the case with the legislation in force, especially for this reason, because you yourself have found that our electricity system is stable, that in the past all regulators in this area have played their part and we have not received any major power outages as the neighbouring countries have. It is said that all these regulators and instruments in the current legislation have somehow maintained quality electricity supply. Therefore, we believe that this change is unnecessary and can in the future also lead to a poor quality of electricity supply for consumers. Therefore, we propose that this amendment, which is clearly linked to the following two, should be adopted and thus maintained, as has been the case with the law in force, and even as it has actually regulated this area in a very good way, and thus allowed quality delivery to all customers. However, with a change in the future, we may find that areas that are not economically relevant to each regulator or individual distribution will in some way be left to some arbitration, whose activities can be carried over, which in some hypothetical case could also mean poorer provision for individual areas. We do not agree with this in our Group of Members, so we also appeal to the coalition to support these amendments. I think that this has already been highlighted in the Committee's discussions, and also the vast majority of the coalition members coming from the profession have largely agreed with this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendment tabled under Article 78? If not, I conclude the debate and because the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 80 and 81 are substantively linked, I now open the debate to Article 80 and 81 and to the amendments tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? He does. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you again for opening these two articles. I have already said that all three are connected; we are talking once again about a system operator which is unified in the current legislation for the entire territory of Slovenia, and you want to put into law the possibility of establishing several system operators. Once again, I recall the danger that may happen that less interesting areas in this case may be in some danger that electricity supply will be less quality for them, because, clearly, in this case, the legality of the market is a consequence of what you want to bring into law. However, I propose that these three amendments, which have been tabled and which are somehow summarised also in the light of the debate we have had on previous working bodies, be supported and thus maintained in legislation, as in the applicable energy law. Once again, this legislation has allowed us all these years to be on the safe side of electricity supply, and not only for, I will say, urban centres, but for the whole territory of Slovenia, and I believe that you all want to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The Minister Bojan Kumer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u184	Yes, thank you very much. In fact, we, as drafters of this law, note that these three amendments are linked and in Slovenia we have an arrangement of Slovenian electricity distribution in a way that we have one system operator of the distribution network, which was created in 2007 as an artificial creation at the time, but with the main purpose of making the market work more efficiently or that the implementation of electricity distribution will be more efficient, more transparent, especially in the interest of the Slovenian consumer. By 2007, we had lived normally without a system operator, and so for some regions it had been almost a hundred years. That is to say, since 2007, we have now had such an arrangement. As far as regulation is concerned, we are proposing – and it is clear here why it would be better to have the energy concept of Slovenia earlier, because the energy concept of Slovenia would solve this issue through a broad professional debate and then we could write one or another variant into the law. We wanted to leave both options open. This does not mean that we are now removing the system operator of the distribution network; far from it! In the energy concept of Slovenia we certainly see many opportunities for system operators as well. In the field of electricity distribution, in which I have worked for a long time at the beginning of my career, I always feel that distribution has never had the weight of energy that it should have. When we look at energy structures and electricity systems elsewhere in Europe, we see that distribution systems have a much better and much higher weight. Through the energy concept of Slovenia, we want to change this so that distribution gets back on its weight. Now, whether it will show an expert debate that it will be one or five, or it will be some intermediate creation, must give the energy concept of Slovenia the answer, not the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thanks again for saying that. It is precisely this final debate of the Secretary of State that we should give everyone more thought to supporting these three amendments in order to maintain the regime as it is, and we do not allow the possibility of someone taking advantage of this, on the other hand, an understandable relief, which is in this law, that it also allows more system operators. However, it is precisely from the interpretation that the Secretary of State has just given, which is that it would be wise to upgrade this solution when the energy concept in Slovenia is confirmed and clear, that it would be wise from this point of view to maintain the regime, as in the current legislation, because it has been proven so far that we have not had problems with electricity supply, and this law is being amended when the energy concept and a strategy for energy development in this country are also confirmed, probably even in the National Assembly where these documents will be adopted. Until then, however, there was no need to understand the Secretary of State that this instrument, which we are now trying to protect in some way, is being incorporated into the legislation and that it is possible that this can be implemented and implemented through some pressure from certain structures before the energy concept can adopt a definitive position on this. I therefore appeal once again to everything, in view of all the debate so far, and also in view of the State Secretary's latest explanation, to maintain the regime as it is in the present legislation, and to support these three amendments. Because, as has been said, they do not prejudge anything in advance, but they keep the arrangements as valid and which also in some way ensures safe and quality care. This avoids a problem that may arise because we have allowed in law an option that has not yet been verified through the energy development strategy that the Secretary of State has just spoken about. I propose, however, that you support these amendments and that we maintain the regime as it is in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If he does not wish, I am concluding the debate on Articles 80 and 81 and the amendments tabled. We're moving on to paragraph 522. I am putting to the debate an amendment to the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? If no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate on Article 522 and the amendment tabled. We are moving on to Article 541, which is the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? If he does not wish, I conclude the debate on Article 541. We have thus concluded the debate on the amendments, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, will be decided today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Sam Bevk. The bill is proposed at the 7th session of the 14th. 1. 2014 treated the Committee on Culture as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party Group, here is the present Mr Janez Ribič, or we are moving to the next position, namely the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Porotat. Since it is not present here, we are moving on to the following, I suppose they will not represent a particular position. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the New Slovenia Group – it will not be represented by Nova Slovenije. So we are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. We'd like to present our position. In Positive Slovenia we do not have problems with laws that are enforceable, comprehensible, up-to-date. The problem with this proposal is in the first item, namely the feasibility issue. Which means that, given the budget that has been adopted and lacks sufficient funding to be feasible. I would like to mention another point, namely, that we are looking at this proposal through the prism of the national cultural programme. But there we talked about accessibility, diversity and excellence. I think that this moment is primarily an accessibility problem, so I would quote one statement in this presentation or read it without saying anything wrong. In fact, the February edition of King's Street. It says here: "In December, I saw the performance of Caligula with a friend on the big stage of SNG drama. This is us," says SNG – "gived us two tickets, for which we really thank and hope that they will remember us again." I mean, the problem is accessibility, and even if some funding were to be found, we would certainly give priority to accessibility. For culture is for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Andrej Chuš will introduce him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. In 1998, the first Act on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture was adopted and was in force until 2003. In 2002, a new law was adopted which extended the implementation of the law until 2008. In 2008, we extended the law until 2013. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware of the poor state of Slovenian cultural heritage, where we call on the competent ministry to prepare as soon as possible a real law that will be a Slovenian cultural heritage and culture in pride. It grieves us that we have adopted national programmes and other strategies, and in the end, because of the lack of coherence, the government's non-implementation takes place. So I can conclude that there are many resolutions and strategies that we only accept in the form of paper. We welcome the intention of the proposer, but we did not agree with the starting point for the law to enter into force with 1. 1. 2015 when the economic situation in Slovenia is expected to improve. Unfortunately, the European Commission's forecasts are different. In addition to Cyprus this year, we will be the only one with gross domestic product falling and the only black sheep in the European Union next year. We were also unable to agree that many local communities would be promised financial resources on the basis of the adoption of the law, but ultimately, due to the lack of funding from this local community, they would not be entitled to the money. We call on both the proposer and the Ministry of Culture to prepare a real proposal for the law in both the area of finance and projects for which financial resources would be provided. We have rightly received the feeling that a number of monuments or programmes were not included in the annex to the law that defined the financing of emergency programmes. Inaction and non-support of the Government of this Law is another blow to Slovenian culture, which will already be affected by the property tax. On 20 January 2014, the Ministry of Culture provided data on cultural monuments other than archaeological sites, settlement monuments and protected cultural landscapes to the register of properties maintained by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of the Real Estate Tax Act. This will be a big blow to Slovenian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, which will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. Last year, the third Act on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture expired. Therefore, the Group of Members and Members of the Social Democrats tabled a new law extending its validity from 2015 to 2019. For all three laws, between 1999 and 2013, additional €95 million was provided for five programmes in the field of cultural heritage, investment in public institutions, libraries, amateur culture and cultural networks in the state budgets for Slovenian culture. Without this law, Slovenian culture would be deprived of the same sum. Among successful projects in the field of cultural heritage can be the technical monument of the Kanomeljska Klavža and some other projects in the municipality of Idrija, whose heritage of mercury has been on the list of the world heritage of Unesca since 2012. The following are successful projects such as the Jablje castle near Mengš, the Delavska barracks in Jesenice, the church in Olima, the Church of the Holy Spirit in Montenegro, the Ptujska Castle, the town of Stermol, the castle of Turjak, Tonovcov Castle, the city centre of Piran and the church of St. Jurija, the Dominican monastery in Ptuj, Ptujska Gora, the synagogue in Maribor, the cod core in Kropa, Stanjel, the cities in Podseda, Metlika and Ormož, the base 20 on Kočevská horn, the monument in Dražgošah, the hospital of Franja, the central monument in Maribor, Tonovc's house, the memorial houses of Trubara, Gregorčič and Preživina. With the help of cultural tolar and the euro, more than ten other objects of cultural heritage have also been invested. During the period of validity of the Law on Cultural Tolar or Euro there were major investments in the National Gallery, the advent of the Ljubljana Opera, Modern Gallery, Slovenian Ethnographic Museum, Restoration Centre, renovation of the old hall of MSG Maribor, the puppet theatre Maribor, the Regional and Study Library Murska Sobota, the Historical Archive Celje, the Film Studio Viba Film, the renovation of the Slovenian Philharmonic, the construction of the library in Velenj, Kranju, and the Ravna and Museum of Slovenian Film Players in Divača, then the Museum in Cerkne and so on. Of the 41 public infrastructure projects, 33 public cultural infrastructure facilities have been invested, so there are eight other projects, including major Drama and Natural History Museum projects in Ljubljana and the Art Gallery in Maribor, as well as some other projects, such as museum depots in Ljubljana and Bevkova Library in Cerkne. In view of the failure to complete or complete the outstanding programmes, the Group of Members and Members decided to propose to the National Assembly the extension of the existing law for the next five years, from 2015 to 2019, and it would be necessary to provide some more than 56 million euros in state budgets during this period. I am sorry that the Committee on the Culture of Law did not support it, but I was even more surprised by the negative response of the Ministry of Culture, although the law was originally envisaged in the Government's legislative programme for 2014 and also in the national programme for culture for the period 2014 to 2017. The country's tight financial situation had suggested that the programmes provided for in the law in 2014 would remain calm and the law would enter into force in 2015. At the same time, we are also looking forward to at least a slight growth in GDP and thus a recovery of the economy and a better public financial situation in the country. Investments in culture and cultural infrastructure have many multiplier effects. Only investments in the reconstruction and revitalisation of cultural heritage are reimbursed 6 times. This year's cultural heritage funds account for only 30% of what the country had at its disposal in 1996 and in the field of protection of Slovenian cultural heritage, the situation is catastrophic. Important additional funds would also bring the law for three more programming packages: library, amateur culture and cultural networks. Here we would participate in all the Slovenian municipalities, which have also supported this law in a large number, for which I also publicly thank them. Regrettably, the majority in the parental committee voted in favour and rejected the cultural euro law by 6 votes against, so a decision has been taken, which we will certainly regret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the legislative procedure for the proposal for a law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote today at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u194	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly, moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We can decide. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Radio Television Act of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 27. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 4. Mr Andrej Chus has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I hope that at least now I can speak, given what happened earlier in the debate. In short, we propose an amendment in Article 4 that during the period of implementation of this law, including the year following the year in which economic growth exceeds 2.5% of GDP, the monthly contribution paid shall be EUR 10 for natural persons and EUR 3 for legal persons. Why do we think that? For the first time just because the government of Alenka Bratušek is getting taller, let us give at least something at the symbolic level to lower, on the other hand, today I believe that in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we have managed to prove that the public institution of RTV Slovenia has sufficient internal reserves. We have also proved this through various articles and other materials; from the fact that spending itself is irrational, let's say that broadcasts are recorded and paid for by more than 100,000 euros and, on the other hand, these broadcasts are not broadcast. Let's not talk about other laps in rich payoffs. In the final phase, the public institution RTV Slovenia itself operates and operates with profits and we believe that it is right to relieve Slovenian taxpayers in at least one move and that it is possible to show some positive energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? Mrs Alenka Jeraj has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support our amendment, because it seems that only a reduction in the resources of some forces in order to start thinking about reserves, thinking about rationalisations and also better organisation. I mentioned in the debate that we discussed the non-transparent use of funds in the public service of RTV, both on the Committee on Culture and on the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. On the basis of an anonymity that came to the public about a year ago, a revision was then carried out that practically demonstrated and proved the anonymity. Travel costs were unjustifiably paid, part-time employees even had the possibility of taking leave, sick leave and the like. She bought the equipment a few times too expensive, which she didn't even use. We all want a good programme, and it is not a problem to give money for a good programme, and the problem is to give money for uncontrolled spending and spending money. Director Fili even stated to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission that there were not so many sanctions and measures against people who were in breach of the law that the issue of anonymity was not so serious. We propose that the RTV contribution be reduced when economic growth exceeds 2.5%. Let me remind you that we had 2.8% of economic growth in 2003, the highest in the first Janshea government in 2007, when economic growth was 6.9%. Now we are at minus 2.4 for this year's forecast minus 0.8, year 2015 0.4; so if everything happens happily and if it continues with the destructive work of this government, we will not have a good time to come up with such a number. So I don't know why you're afraid to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We can decide. We're voting on the law. 78 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 21. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be applied on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 27. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of Article 27 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The law, which was directed in the wrong direction; which was obviously directed in the direction of closing down the archives of the former intelligence service, which systematically violated human rights and — as we can see from the cases that have been revealed in the last month — also killed up to the last 70 and 80 years. It is logical that political forces, which feel like the sole successors of the only political party in the previous system, want to prevent in all ways the truth of human rights violations from occurring on a day-to-day basis. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is our civil duty to have Slovenia clear up these matters. For in the case of "lex Perkovic", in the case of Croatia, which has several parallel cases in Slovenia, we have seen how Europe sees these things, how consistent Europe is in clearing up this heritage. You won't be able to resist this legacy. As a result, these attempts to close the archives of these intelligence services are, of course, unacceptable. Our amendment does not completely eliminate the problem, but slightly improves this law, which in any case is wrong and goes in the wrong direction. We just want this coalition not to succumb to this pressure of these people, who are politically and capitalally powerful and, of course, want the truth about the events of that period to remain hidden, that injustices would not be revealed to people, and even to the extent that injustices can be corrected, even eliminated. That is why we are aware that, as publicist Omerza said, in fact, any change in this law goes in the direction of closing archives, which is unacceptable for publicists and researchers of the past. This amendment of ours is a minor correction, as far as possible, in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting on the amendment. Excuse me? Anyone else? Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. I, too, will support the amendment that we propose because I believe that the archives must be open. Historians and researchers have to be able to explore, and we have always stood up for this, not only because of the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which, by the way, the National Assembly has only become acquainted with us, but which calls on all Member States to seek to open archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services. Since the first Janša government, when we changed the law and made it possible to explore and study historical materials, several articles have already been published, some books and we estimate that it is right to process historical facts in this way and then make public disclosure. Why is there a change? Since the Ministry estimates that personal data abuse could occur, some things are changing. During these years, there have been no such abuses, no cases have been reported, and researchers are also committed not to make public the personal and sensitive data they see in the archives, not to do so. They must sign this every year, which is why they may be liable if they do not do so. We therefore estimate that we cannot have the same tolerance for archival material that is associated with such fellow workers who have violated human rights in the previous non-democratic system as other documents. That's why, as I say, I support the amendment, because I think things are improving, and I don't want to make it impossible to do research again, as I said, to researchers and historians, because history always precedes us if we don't want to face it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment of Article 27 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There were 80 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We decide on the law. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The vote on our amendment has shown that the explicit political objective and purpose of this law is to close archives on the functioning of the political police in the past system, which has, until the last, committed serious human rights violations. That this is in an extremely political interest has not only proved to be in this law, but it also proved to be in the Commission's vote on petitions when even the leaders of the two largest parties' groups confirmed that the civilisation principle of the right to grave is being violated, which is unheard of, but this has been confirmed. These are signs of what is still hidden in the public of Slovenia and of what kind of fear reigns in the ranks of coalition parties, those political leaders leading the entire coalition, and we find this unacceptable. For the first time, this people have rejected this same manoeuvre at the referendum, and if a coalition were as respectful of human rights and accountable to people who had already rejected such solutions, it would not have come up with such a proposal. I therefore call on those Members who are empathetic about human rights not to support this law and to make it clear that this law has gone in the wrong direction, in the wrong direction, in the direction of closing archives and clearing up human rights violations that should not have happened at all, but have, unfortunately, happened. I must therefore say that our Group of Members will vote against this law, and we are firmly convinced that the Slovenian public will achieve that this law will not go into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you, too. Just a warning, in explanation of vote, we do not call on others to vote. Mr Roberto Battelli has an explanation of vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, security-intelligence services can take a detour forever by nature, they're necessary, but they're dangerous from this point of view. Here we are talking about security and intelligence services regarding archives and their functioning, internal psychological and propaganda services, if I use their terminology, their internal counterintelligence, not just external counterintelligence, and what else. The main difference is whether these services are under control and the expression of some democratic authority or not. There's a difference. We are talking about a period when there was no democratic mandate for anyone in the exercise of absolute authority, including these services and other activities. He wasn't there. That's why we changed our time! Now there is this control, and what has been done before must be accessible. This is my opinion, so I will vote against this law. The mechanisms, the defences, have already been described, because the one with the particular data must not; he commits himself not to extend them. If he does so, he also answers the law or answers the law. That's why I'm gonna go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Can we make a decision? We're voting on the law. There are 80 Members and Members present. It was 51 votes against 28. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Energy Bill. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 36. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment to Article 36. There are 78 Members and Members present. The vote was 47, against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 78. Mr Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We will support this amendment, just like the amendments to the next two articles, paragraphs 80 and 81, because they are linked. It is, as I have already said in the debate, to regulate the system operator of the distribution network. With these three amendments, we return the situation as it is in the current legislation, because we have one system operator in the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that this is important in terms of the safe supply of electricity, and it has already proved to be a good arrangement in the past. That is why we do not agree to a proposal that is in law that allows for the introduction of several system operators in our area. A similar explanation was given by the Secretary of State. Kumar, who has in some way pointed out that until the energy concept of energy development is adopted in the Republic of Slovenia, it makes sense to preserve the situation in some way, as is currently the case. This means that we have management of one system operator who has rights at this time by the Republic of Slovenia and which has a concession granted for a maximum of 50 years. As has been pointed out, as long as there is no serious debate and study on energy concept and energy development in the Republic of Slovenia, it does not make sense that this solution, which has so far provided quality care and safe care for all consumers, is also changing. Therefore, I propose that you support these amendments, which are related to Articles 78, 79 and 80, and thus maintain the regime that is currently in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Before we decide to do anything else, it's just this warning. If this amendment is adopted, then – it will not be adopted – then the amendment of the same proposer to Article 81 and Article 80 will become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 78. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I apologize, but I did not have a precise definition of this text in my text. As the amendment to Article 78 has not been adopted, the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to Articles 80 and 81 are irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 522. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment of the coalition to Article 522. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 541. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. With regard to the harmonisation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! On the part of the Ministry as the drafter of the content of the law, we have found that, following the amendments voted, there exists a certain non-compliance in the content of the law, and we propose a harmonisation amendment to the EZ-1 Energy Law proposal, where these inconsistencies would be eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you for that warning, too. On the basis of this warning that the proposal is inconsistent, I ask the Government to prepare a harmonisation amendment and the National Assembly will continue its consideration of this point on Thursday 30. 1. 2014, after the final vote. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mag. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Can we make a decision? The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u211	Dear President! Yesterday, I asked the President of the Government a very specific question when he would see the light of the world and what would be the programme of economic stimulus for new jobs. We would expect this programme to be concrete, targeted, time-bound and also financially valuable. This simple question could also be answered by the President of the Government that this programme will not be prepared because the existing measures are sufficient. I got the feeling that she answered that too, because she responded to what measures had already been taken and that the results would already come so that the results could not just come. The results of this non-action, I believe, and also the sad fact that we have been without an economic minister for two months now, are alarming. Yesterday, on yesterday, 129 thousand 922 unemployed were registered with the Employment Service, almost 130 thousand. This is a record that has been a sad record in the last ten, fifteen years, and even sadder is that there are more than 32 thousand 500 unemployed young people; those who have graduated from school, those who are only making a career, family, they are creating a short life. These facts were not answered by the President of the Government, and therefore, Mr President, I have proposed a debate. Of course, the Group of Members will also support this proposal. I believe that where, my fellow Members, we need to find a common ground here, a common denominator, that only the priority of all our actions is greater economic activity in this country and, last but not least, new jobs that are needed. There is much room for this, Slovenia has a European perspective ahead of us, unfortunately we are late to prepare strategic documents that enable calls at all. No call for European development funds is likely to be issued this year, as we are not yet prepared documents such as a partnership agreement, such as operational programmes and the like. So, Your Honor, I also ask you to support this, take this as a constructive matter, because we want to come to this programme of measures, and we want to help in this as the opposition, of course. I believe that such a programme of measures must also be underpinned by measures to attract foreign investment – we are sorry here – and not least by better and more efficient governance of state-owned enterprises. [[…]] All of these are topics which could at least be addressed in some way in this public debate, and I ask for support.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on your own behalf, Mr. Franz Pojbič, excuse me, Marijan Pojbič. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! I think I'm the third term in the National Assembly, and it would be fine because we're already here, and you're already some kind of mandate more so you can know my name or [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u214	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u215	I'm asking you to call me right in the future. I must say that I will support this debate because I am convinced that what the President of the Government is saying here in Parliament is absolutely far from the truth that is real in this country. If you are watching, every citizen, including that child who is born, is in charge of EUR 12 000 500 after what has happened in recent years. Can you imagine what that means? Those who laugh in this hall should imagine what this means for your children and what we leave to our children! This government allows itself, and the President of the Government here, in Parliament, to say that the situation in this Slovenia is improving. This year, with all the debts that are yet to come, this country will be in charge of 80% of GDP and we are very close to being a country on the brink of collapse and bankruptcy. If this is funny to anyone else in the National Assembly who is responsible for the situation in this country, then let the devil take me. I will therefore be very pleased to support a broader debate and debate on this subject, which is far more important and crucial for the Slovenian country at this time. We've got 130,000 in this state of unemployment! Do you even know what that means? I will vote in favour of what I have said to hold a public debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you. Can we make a decision? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Beznik, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u217	President, thank you for your word. I, too, will support the proposal of colleague Andre Visiak. I think that 130,000 unemployed people are a scary number. Today we have a new number from the Tax Office of the Republic of Slovenia that, despite aggressive policies, the tax administration collected 4.6% less taxes last year. It appears that all the words I made last year in the wake of the increase in the value added tax below and above, that the turning point has happened, that the accumulations of Slovenian taxpayers no longer have, that we have become an extremely non-competitive country and that the policy of larger taxes is already destroying the medium term or even in this case, for a short period of Slovenian competitiveness, and in particular leads to a decline. I would suggest that this is a topic for the future. Those who say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we look back many times – then let's look ahead! This is a topic to look forward to finding out that we are on the wrong path, to make some diversion and to learn from the mistakes that have been made in France, too, that the great policy of Holland has collapsed, Hollande must take responsibility for himself and carry out extraordinary, internal, strong structural reforms. [[…]] Only this is the key to success, the key to greater competitiveness. I therefore propose once again that we support, above all, the debate on this subject, Comrade Visiak, and I believe that this proposal will also be supported by all Members who are aware of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 78 Members and Members present. 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Puksic, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenke Bratušek to the question of Mr Puksič on the public publication of information on the shares and values of companies transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, we asked the President of the Government the question of when will she reveal the shares and their values that are being transferred to a bad bank – for the first time. Secondly, with great concern, we asked her what was going on at the bad bank about what the media had reported both about hiding wages and about the Celov Castles. In particular, we asked with great concern that the Bank Claims Management Company or the so-called bad bank in a very short-term company for the rescue of imported projects, tycoons and, of course, their bots will not come. The vast majority of non-payments are Taiwanese loans; that is to say, to take over businesses. Other large, such a combination of imported investments, such as the Stożice. In the third part, we asked the President why to hide it, why not make it public, what he was afraid of, whether he was afraid of his citizens. As more than a year ago when she was a Member of Parliament, Madam President replied - if she had responded that way, he would have been satisfied with the answer. Now there was not even a shadow of that answer, in the style of October 23, 2012, when the government then asked what we would do, how much and at what cost, even though there were no stress tests at that time. Today we know all that. We know that there was a net cash flow of 2.5 billion, that it went about half a billion euros for those who were dispossessed, shareholders, even subordinated instruments, and about a billion in exchange for good bonds. That is why our citizens and citizens have the right to know why they do not do what they said a year ago, why they do not reveal it. Since people will pay this out of their pockets, their money, it is right for the President of the Government to have the opportunity to make this public before the National Assembly, because I think it would have a certain weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u221	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, I asked the President of the Government whether it seemed fair to her that the owners of subordinated financial instruments, i.e. bank bonds, had been relieved in the process of restoring our banking system. I have also warned of unusual things that have been happening recently at the DUTB, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, or the Bad Bank. Among other things, I mentioned that claims have been transferred which are good, which are not bad. Why? I drew attention to the reprogramming of tycoon loans and also to the suspension of the sale of Celovské dvory. The government president's answers were relatively typical. I am very sorry that the President of the Government sometimes responds very strongly to opposition issues. Instead of working together to find solutions, we are sometimes citizens of the opposition, why we ask such questions. Therefore, it seems wise and useful for me to have a debate on the basis of this request, because it seems important to me that this house and this Parliament exert some pressure, if you want, on the DUTB leadership, that this Bank Claims Management Company would not become a company that would save certain individuals, but that they would be aware that their mission is, above all, that they will suffer as much as possible for the country and that the cost of bank recovery will be as low as possible. Why would there be a good debate? I also mentioned the unfair misdemeanour of the owners of subordinated financial instruments. After yesterday's response, I went to re-examine all the paperwork. The documentation available and based on which the Slovenian decision was made is neither a regulation nor a directive. In European legislation, however, only a regulation and a directive are binding. In view of the fact that the President of the Government can sometimes speak with his people to impress people, I would expect him to fight for his people in relation to the European Union and to point out and convince the European Commission that if they so require, even though my assessment does not require that such a measure is simply not fair and is not necessary in the process of rehabilitation of the banking system. This effort and these efforts have been missed, and I believe that this debate I propose could help. That's why I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you. Explanation of the vote in its own name. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, it is logical that I would support the procedural proposal of colleague Mate Tonin, just as I supported the proposal of Master Viszak and colleague Pukšič. It was about banks, it was about money and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, today the National Assembly is celebrating or should be celebrating. We don't want champagne because there are austerity measures on the table. Exactly ten years ago, on 28 January 2004, the National Assembly ratified the Accession Treaty of the Republic of Slovenia with the European Union. It's been 10 years. What have we learned from Europe? Have we learned that money is free in Europe? Have we learned to draw money for the development of Slovenia from the European Union? We didn't, ladies and gentlemen! So, unfortunately, there's no reason to open champagne today. This government has not yet drawn up documents for the 2014-2020 financial period on the basis of which European funds could be drawn up. I come from Athens, where I have met my colleagues who have already forgotten documents such as the Partnership Agreement and Smart Specialisation software documents. Countries are already drawing money; money that is free in Europe. And we get, as we read from the newspapers, there's no other information, criticism of documents that are actually all the criticisms that are worth it. September and November. What's going on? Has this government decided in its concept of governance not to draw on the money we bloodyly need for development? It is therefore necessary to discuss these issues as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The 75 Members and Members present voted 26 to 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] The decision was not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Master Dejan Židan, to the parliamentary question of Ljub Žnidar concerning the financing of the public forestry service. Can we make a decision? Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u225	Your Honor! I asked the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment how he intended to provide funds for the smooth operation of the public forestry service. Because with the restriction of the performance of this service there is limited supply of wood to the economic sector and thus economic damage is done in the wood industry in the Republic of Slovenia. This represents a major problem in the economy for a successful developmental sector, that is, wood processing in our Republic. I therefore propose that a broader debate be held on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 77 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavc to the question by Mr Jerovšek on the building of the former Yugoslav Embassy in Rome. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Minister's reply to my question in fact showed that the foreign ministry is thinking in a direction that is detrimental to Slovenia with regard to the continued fate of the former Yugoslav Embassy's residence in Rome, which we received after a successful agreement. According to that information, it is an impressive building in a prominent place in Rome; Rome is not what it is, or any capital, and last but not least our minority lives in Italy. I was just informed by the representatives of our minority about these plans, which are supposed to be for sale. It is frantic, however, that the Minister confirmed that, for the long delay in the return of this building, our foreign ministry did not require any compensation and, in the meantime, allowed essentially empty and looting the embassy. Nevertheless, this is the space for the exhibition window of our culture, our economy and the minister's response, which spoke of the terrible sum of the reconstruction, in some way it is clear to me that these rumors, which say that the sale is being made in Serbian hands again, but that for sale were Serbian business and real estate circles in Ljubljana, which have great interests to get the property in a cheap way in Italy as well. Indeed, it is a fact that Slovenia cannot be represented abroad only as a poor, poor country. That you are in such a country as Italy and in the capital, from which you can also be covered, from this capital, many other countries of the Mediterranean, that we must also have an embassy building that is suitable for this and will also be the distinguishing mark of the state of Slovenia in Italy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u228	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Prevc, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Sam Omerzel, to the question of Mr Prevc, sent by Michael Prevc, concerning restrictions on traffic on bridges and overpasses. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Ambassador Tomaž Lisca, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel to the question of the question of the President Tomaž Lisca regarding the rehabilitation of crossings on state roads. We're voting. 77 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Ribič, the National Assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. The de facto Jew to Janez Ribič's question regarding the regulation of watercourses. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr. Janez Fishich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, distinguished President of the National Assembly! I do not think it is necessary to introduce and talk about how Slovenian watercourses are maintained. This is what the floods at all ends of our country remind us of every so long. I have been warning about this in the National Assembly for several years, and there must be something wrong in this area. We have a Water Fund for which I am interested, how much money is collected, who pays for it, or these funds come back to those areas from which these funds are allocated to the Water Fund. Because I come from Podravje myself and I am sure that Drava power plants spend a great deal of money on the Water Fund. I'm afraid these funds go somewhere else, unintended, not for what they're meant for. Maybe even for the construction of power plants or some TEŠ 6. So I think it would be good to find one option of how to enrich the Water Fund, maybe change it or set it up another organization, so that we can allocate more resources to maintain the watercourses, because with this, people who live on these rivers, along these rivers, would somehow live to defend themselves against floods. That's why I don't think there's anything political here, and I don't know why the coalition wouldn't help all those who are kind of shaking when there's big rain, when there's big water and they're fighting this water. I hope you will support me and we will be able to discuss this in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u230	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Čuš, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, to Andrej Čuš's question on the Resolution of the National Youth Programme 2013 – 2022. Mr Andrej Cuz has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you for your word. Yesterday, I asked Minister Pikal in particular about the failure to implement the National Youth Programme. Actually, the main problem is that we're 24. Ten. 2013 almost unanimously confirmed the Resolution on the National Youth Programme in the National Assembly, and here several members of the Government as well as the President of the Government have made a public commitment that the first measures will be taken and I can also say plans to help improve the problem of young people, which is indeed increasing today in order to postpone the first measures within three months. Since we are really good today three months from the adoption of this strategy, nothing has been done to date, of course I am disappointed. The Minister himself acknowledged that the text or the operational implementation of the plan was in principle prepared, because it was an inter-ministerial document and that a number of members of the Government had not played their part. I also estimate that it is probably the President of the Government. Young and youth organisations have submitted their comments within the deadlines set, and until today, the President of the Government has done nothing to make something happen. If the first measures of the National Youth Programme were already implemented, say, last year or last month, yes, they would be too late. [[…]] The only thing young people have today from the President of the Government are ever-increasing loans and interest that we will have to pay in the future, without any concrete reform being carried out and only an effective education system and economy can be derived from the crisis. As the President of the Government speaks long and wide about how young people are a priority, I therefore call on her to stop misusing young people for cheap piranha propaganda and to come to the National Assembly and present her actions. And if I didn't speak up here, and I was thinking about it, I would just read some articles; Young: Let the Brother cease to deceive, or let The Young Critical to the Government, the government has done nothing. Honorable National Assembly, let us finally do something, not just talk! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u232	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the blind weren't accepted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Senk Plitčanič to the question of Mr Jerovšek's question on the initiation of prosecution procedures under official responsibility. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I asked Minister Plitčanič whether the State Prosecutor's Office would initiate proceedings on an official basis when signs of serious crimes appear, even if they were crimes against humanity that were not obsolete. In September, he cited General Janez Schweitzer, a retired Slovenian Army Brigadier, as well as the bearer of the golden mark for freedom, when he urged that the letter of Judith Treven, who reported interwar, postwar killings, should serve as an indictment. As a historian, John Schweitzer found that at that time some Polish partisans were specifically cited as agents of the Italian Intelligence Service and were working towards deterring people from killing the Liberation Front. I think it is imperative that such matters be clarified; it is a credible man, a member of the left who has called for it, but I must say that the Minister has explained to me in detail that the situation is such that he cannot even ask the prosecution or not get an answer. If I understood him correctly, he pleaded in his reply that we should have a debate on the basis of which he said that it was imperative to amend the legislation so that – not the supervision of the prosecutions – we would have a comparative system with other European countries. For this reason, I think that the coalition will do the minister a favor, to open this urgently needed issue in this way, and that in doing so, Minister Plitchanic will be able to come up with a solution that will be good for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u234	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Sonja Ramšak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Justice Minister Senko Plitčanič to Sonja Ramšak's question on the prosecution of offences of extortion, fraud and money laundering. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Ivana Vogrin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Defence Minister Roman Jakič to the question of mags. Ivana Vogrina in connection with the salaries of soldiers of the Slovenian Army. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Janez Ribič, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc, to the question of Mr. Janez Ribič, on the question of the failure to allocate funds to the Municipality of Maribor for the renovation of the castle at the invitation of the Ministry of Culture. Mr Janez Ribič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Perhaps you'd like to freshen up, because yesterday, when I asked this question, we were only two, three here. Last October, the Municipality of Maribor announced a project to rebuild the eastern part of the Maribor Castle on the third public tender of the Ministry of Culture for Developmental Investment in Public Infrastructure. Among the 57 projects reported, the Commission selected 6 projects. The results were published on 17 December 2013, and the Maribor project was ranked third in the selected projects with 85 points. Six days later, the Ministry issued a decision rejecting the role of the Municipality of Maribor in co-financing the project because the estimated number of points for the project is only 75 points. The questions were to the Minister why he had influenced the Commission's decision to change. For the media, your ministry explained that in the near future the Maribor Congregation would be able to find new possibilities for completing the reconstruction – what did you mean in particular? Do you not think that you have seriously exceeded your powers as this project is included in the National Culture Programme 2014-2017 and is among the priority projects of the municipality that go beyond local importance? The Municipality of Maribor also opened an administrative dispute over the lack of funds. What will be done in such a case if the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia decides in favour of the Municipality of Maribor? I would say that the basic thing is that the processing procedures are such that such a mistake simply cannot happen, not at local level, but especially at the Ministry. It's just not possible. I just think that in these six days they had to change the result somehow, because they certainly couldn't invent another. I think this could be a new affair in this government. Why? Firstly, I have the feeling that the matter is mature for law enforcement authorities, and I remind the Minister that he will become a Minister of Culture of all Slovenians, not just Ljubljana, as soon as possible. If you look with a clear eye at the situation in one or the other part of the country, or in one or another place, you can see this difference of course. I would also like to say that – why am I talking about this affair? Namreč, the minister was employed as Director of the Culture Office in the Municipality of Ljubljana, from where he came to the Ministry of Culture. He was co-founder of the Lutkov Museum in Ljubljana Castle, for which this money was now to be spent, which was redirected back to Ljubljana. Of course, I think it would be good for us to start talking about these things in the National Assembly, because centralisation has become the same as it was in the independent state of Slovenia. That's why I want [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u236	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Explanation of voice. On behalf of the Group or on behalf of the Group of Members? In my own name. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, yesterday's call for us all to support this proposal for a debate on the response of Minister Uroš Grilc, I take it very seriously. Mr Grilco’s reply indicated where the errors had taken place and what it was, in addition, that an administrative dispute could be identified from the question raised. If the decisions of Minister Grilco bear any signs of a persecutive act, there are authorities and institutions to do so. I, as it is said, am pleased and not in favour of the debate with what has been said, but I have only come to my attention because there has been a precedent on the question that, in the matter addressed to the Minister, I have been, as it were, called to the floor by the President of the Committee on Culture, if I have not condemned Minister Grilco. I don't judge anyone unless I've been given proof of his guilt. Therefore, I will not support this debate, the debate does not end with any decision or other binding decision to help resolve the embarrassment or errors that have arisen. Responsibility must be sought upon, but this is not a matter of discussion on the answer to the question raised. I regret that my fellow Member, Rybič, has somehow implicated me in this story and is now spreading me well through the use of modern media aid, but let everyone explain to themselves the reasons why he is doing this. I don't judge anyone until proven guilty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u238	Thank you. However, I must point out that there is no controversy in the explanation of vote, so please take this into account below. Can we make a decision? In your own name, Mr. Fish? Here's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. That's how I'm gonna start, first of all, I'd like to make a public apology to Mrs. Maja Potter. Why? Because I respect her as one of the Members of this National Assembly, who is always present and always prepares for the debate, and I put much into its debate. And what is happening now is that the funds that have been allocated to the Municipality of Maribor are refused; where we come from, and who else here is hurting me. Something's going on. Someone's behind it. I always thought that if Mrs. Potter didn't react here, then we're in the end. Then best to leave, let someone else come here to work, or we will defend what the electorates and voters have chosen us to be envoys of our places. That's all I wanted. I complimented her, I complimented her without causing anything – I'm not like that at all and you know me, I'm already in the National Assembly's second term, but I want something to change. We think about cultural things, about culture, about our culture, about our culture, about each other, and also about culture. And someone from Ljubljana can't make investments at the Ministry of Culture! It's kind of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u240	Thank you. In your own name, you'll probably vote in favour. So this was an explanation for the vote, although this explanation for the vote was a better excuse, but I hope that we understand all of this. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before that, I gave up my word on my question. So I expected that it would not be voted out, and I also slowly resisted saying anything. There's a lot of us like that. Mr Ribič pointed out something essential; that we are actually losing common sense here. Look, let's do this once, and let's gather this courage and have a general debate on one major problem, and let's show our maturity as a Parliament. What are we so afraid of? Words spoken? There will be arguments, and why should we be afraid of them? You know, it's the truth on the long run anyway. And the truth is that we continue the practice of 20 years of work. Where did we come from, ladies and gentlemen? Far away, indeed! We've really come a long way. People are afraid, soldiers are suing because they have 700 euros in wages. Because they don't get meals. On the other hand, we are actually working on a culture of Mortal Salts and we are not able to face arguments. Let us, for one thing, make this mental breakthrough, so that one is likely to want only the good things to be cleared up! If he's wrong, if he's been misinformed, it'll turn out if he's not. Thank you very much. I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u242	Thank you. - Can we make a decision? There is still an interest in explanation, but this time I invite you to report because I think there are more of you. The application for explanations of vote shall be pending. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. See, I once said: Ljubljana, €313 million of the budget, 75,000 public employees in this city. Here is the seat of most state-owned companies, here are mostly representatives of foreign larger, better brands, we have a broad embassy, Maribor has none of these. All he had was a culture, which was the main export article of Maribor, which was exemplary in performing the European Capital of Culture. Maribor has a European and internationally recognised project on Lent. Well, that's the last one. Ljubljana also wants to become a cultural capital and draw all the money literally here in Ljubljana. This is unacceptable, so I support the proposal to hold a public debate on why the funds were not allocated to the project in Maribor. Maribor has historically proved that he has always acted extremely transparently with funds, that he has treated all funds rationally and that these funds have been used extremely well. That is why I think this debate is important, and I am sure that even if these funds are not returned, we in Styria will show that we can do it and that you will not satisfy us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u245	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Unfortunately, today we have missed a unique opportunity to discuss these problems. The proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture was a point of turn, and unfortunately the parent committee for the culture of this law did not support it. He only got four votes for it. We supported this law of Ambassador Ljudmila Novak, Ambassador László Göncz and me and my colleague Majdo Potato. However, 6 members and members of the Committee on Culture opposed or abstained, virtually from all other parliamentary groups. In this way, many projects could be implemented from all over Slovenia, from a variety of municipalities. This law has been assured so far, it has expired last year, funds for the reconstruction of the synagogue in Maribor, for the reconstruction of the central monument on the market in Maribor, from the title of the cultural tolar, funds were provided for the reconstruction of the old SNG Maribor Hall and also from this title the Lutkov Theatre in Maribor was renovated. If we supported this law today or earlier on the Committee on Culture, Maribor would also obtain funds to rebuild the Art Gallery in Maribor. Unfortunately, we missed the opportunity for a serious substantive debate on culture, and culture would be richer by 56 million tolars or euros between 2015 and 2019. Sadly, this law was not supported. I will therefore vote against this debate, and I hope that we will make this right another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you. Given that it was upsetting, but respected colleagues and colleagues, in explaining your voice, you can explain in substance why you would support something or not, and this debate was about this content. Since there are still some interested in explanations of vote, I invite you to apply for explanations of vote. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u247	I will support this proposal from my fellow fisherman. I had no intention of speaking up for this support, but I did. When completely from another content moved to the question of the mission and then with disappointment, because in its own coalition it was not agreed – and the law prepared by Bevk did not go through coalition coordination, it was not supported – and there is no reason not to support the debate of a Member on a particular topic, which has clearly had some political botts behind him, who obviously hides something and wants to get under the rug – and there is no reason here – but in this case I would expect, not in that way, but on the contrary, the members of the coalition – at least those who have sought the cultural law that has expired last year, to open this debate and, in the open debate with the Minister here, in the National Assembly, would have received a number of answers. This would also have some weight for the further work of this minister or of this ministry. Unfortunately in this law, which Bevk spoke about, you forgot about the most beautiful Slovenian Baroque castle Dornava, but of course, if this were discussed, it would probably have been brought in. I will support the proposal for a debate, and if anything, then at least at this point it would be appropriate for the coalition's colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u248	Thank you. There are several of you who have applied for explanations of vote, so I invite you to report. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u249	Respected and respected! The environment and publication of the results of this call then the event at the end of the week just before last Christmas and then the change in these results really raises a number of questions. I allow the possibility that certain pressure has also been put on the publication of these results so that the results have changed. However, I believe that the Maribor Mayor, with his team, has chosen the best possible means to determine whether the results have been published, the point-of-project formula, and thus the competition of other projects that have run, whether or not. This is an administrative dispute initiated by the Municipality of Maribor against the decision of the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, I believe that the general debate on this in the National Assembly without a proposal for a decision, without any binding conclusion of this debate, would not have contributed to the fact that all that you are presumptively supporting this general debate would not have contributed at all. That is why I believe that the court will judge in this administrative dispute, and I hold my fists to find that Maribor is entitled to these funds and that after so many years we will finally await the completion of the renovation of the Maribor Castle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u251	Thank you. As some debaters have already said before me; indeed something strange must be happening in this country to gain something at the invitation of Maribor and then lose it overnight, and then it goes, of course, to Ljubljana. The problem is that it is the financial resources from the call for coherent regional development and if this debate were to be opened, we would still be here for a few hours today, so I will not tire you out understandingly. I will say this: Maribor is better at football and I believe he will also be in culture. But if you don't know how to deal with the coalition, please don't burden us with that. In the end, I will support the proposal for a general debate, but everybody knows that as far as culture is concerned, Ptuj is the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u252	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. I, too, will support the proposal made by Mr Ribič to discuss this issue. We have recently learned that some funds or perhaps some family ties were also misallocated before the previous term. If there are doubts about the rebuilding of the Maribor Castle, I think it is better that we hold a debate here, resolve any doubts and pour ourselves some pure wine. This is how I support this proposal for a debate, I believe it is necessary, as I supported Mr Bevk's proposal for a law because I believe that Slovenia must invest in the restoration of cultural heritage monuments, because if we ignore these monuments, they will either fail or later be much more expensive. Since Slovenia is also a tourist distillation, it is also a very important economic sector and it is all the more important that we support the restoration of cultural heritage and this monument, Maribor Castle, one of the most important buildings in the city certainly deserves a final reconstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u254	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. It was 26 votes against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, to the question of Mr Lach's delegation concerning the investment funds of the municipalities. Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u255	When Minister Virant spoke so enthusiastically in front of the cameras that he would abolish 100 congregations, he also promised that no money would be taken from the congregations for 2014, and that is not true. With the budget, the government took 2% of the eligible expenditure, distributed to the general on the basis of the developmental hazard index, so that it took the most from those financially weak municipalities and then charged these municipalities with the property tax because the municipalities had to pay the tax on their facilities. Thus, municipalities that have already had budgets adopted for 2014 must also provide funds for co-financing cohesion projects, change all municipalities' budgets, adopt rebalans and somehow provide these own funds for cohesion projects. There are many municipalities that will not be able to provide this money, not in 2014 or in 2015. I think there has been a great deal of damage here, because it is likely that there will be more European funds left on this account in Brussels. However, the municipalities will be guilty of failing to provide funds and succeed in carrying out these projects. I think the government is going to blame the whole thing on the congregations, but it's not their fault. The Minister provided the municipalities with these funds, and now, in turn, he has subsequently bowed to the will of the other ministers and has taken these funds away from the municipalities. Since drawing on European funds is such a pressing matter, because sparrows are already chirping about how much we will leave European money in Brussels, I think it would be right to analyse and make it clear that they are missing funds and will not be able to carry out these projects. One of these projects is the Pomur water supply, where a, b and c weigh more than 100 million. I don't know who's going to answer. The municipalities are investors, the municipalities will have to repay these European funds. From where? I therefore propose that you support this debate in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-01-28-SDZ6-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Čuš, the National Assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision; the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilec, to Andrej Čuš's question on the strategy for media development. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item, which will be adjourned by the 21st meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good-bye to tomorrow's session.
