ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Tanja Cink by 2 p.m., mag. Ange Logar and Dr. Franz Ducky. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2014. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to present the draft budget rebalancing proposal for 2014, I give the floor first to the President of the Government, Dr Miroslav Cerar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u2	Dear High Council, President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, Ministers and Ministers! In my first address to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia before the appointment of the Government, I also highlighted, among other things, the need for decisive action in the area of consolidation of public finances. The situation in the country is serious and difficult due to the excessive deficit and relatively high debt. As long as we do not eliminate the unfavourable public financial situation, we are in a position to be decided in many ways by others. The tightening of the situation and the limitations of the manoeuvre in the area of public finances has been the reality of our country in recent years due to difficult macroeconomic circumstances. At the time of its term of office, the Government strongly advocated that, together with citizens and society, it overcome the current crisis. The many challenges ahead of us must be tackled with sufficient unity, perseverance and patience. In many urgent and rapid responses, positive fundamental and sustainable changes can only be achieved through weighed and gradual steps. The government has taken its first serious steps by drawing up proposals for the 2014 and 2015 budget rebalancing. In accordance with the principle of the coalition agreement that we will act in a responsible, constructive, coherent and transparent manner, the Government wants to demonstrate its serious intention to act decisively with the proposed budget rebalancing. Let me point out that we have not decided on radical interventions in individual parts of the system, because we do not want to have a restrictive fiscal policy impact on less demand or consumption, but we have been looking for and are still looking for appropriate compromises in the preparation of both proposals. On the government side, we want a frank and constructive dialogue in further negotiations with the social partners. We are open to all constructive proposals and sustainable compromises, and we must not forget that the balance of the budget is not only needed because of our own commitments to the European, that is to say our legal order, but also because the consolidation of public finances and the cessation of further indebtedness are crucial to the normal governance of our own country, while at the same time our commitment and responsibility for future generations. Slovenia has already carried out some processes in the past in terms of consolidation of public finances, but additional measures and consistent implementation are needed to ensure long-term stability and sustainable growth through the prioritisation of development and competitiveness. The economy has seen signs of recovery in recent years, and growth forecasts are more promising, but long-term stable growth is not assured. It will take a great deal for citizens to feel the change for the better in everyday life. This is what all our efforts and actions are aimed at. The government also wants to actively address macroeconomic imbalances through the proposal for a rebalancing of budgets. The relatively low competitiveness continues to limit the economy's ability to adapt to the world market. The purpose of the budget rebalancing is not only to stabilise public finances but also to create conditions for higher economic growth. In order to boost economic growth, Slovenia has a high priority in implementing measures in the areas of the financial sector, business management and public finances. The rehabilitation of the banking system is ongoing and must continue as the financing of businesses remains problematic. The debt and restructuring process runs parallel. It is necessary to continue the process of improving the management of the country's capital investments and enhancing their effectiveness, including prudent privatisation. It is important to increase competitiveness, reduce administrative barriers and improve the efficiency of the public sector. A long-term development-oriented public finance policy is essential, clearly limiting public spending. Medium-term planning and target-setting are important. In the long run, we can't spend more than we create. The medium-term public finances strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is defined by the stability programme approved by the government each year in April for the current year and for the next 4 years. The proposed budgetary rebalancing measures thus follow the already set objectives of the budgetary strategy. The short-term objective is to address the excessive deficit in 2015 and by 2017 we want to achieve a levelled structural deficit. On the way to achieving these targets, the government has set itself a target deficit of 4.3% of GDP for 2014 with the budget rebalancing, which will also allow the target deficit to be below 3% of GDP in 2015. Due to the time limit until the end of 2014, structural measures are not possible with the budget rebalancing and the Government is therefore carrying out budgetary activities within the framework provided by the Public Finance Act and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. Movements in public finances show that there is little room for manoeuvre, so we need to make the best use of it. Over the last five years, the country's GDP expenditure has increased from 41.7% to 45.3% of GDP. In fact, only expenditure on investments and material costs has been reduced. Public sector wages remained at a similar level over a five-year period, with 11.6% of GDP. In five years, however, the expenditure on interest increased significantly to 3.3% of GDP in 2014 and transfers from the budget to the pension fund to 17.5% of GDP. The 2014 budget balance shall be set together with changes in the budgetary priorities and structure of expenditure, subject to a given fiscal limitation of measures by which the Government wishes to encourage those investments that have the greatest possible multiplier effect on gross social product. With the proposed rebalancing measures 2014 and internal reallocations in the budget, the government wants to devote more money to projects that are more conducive to economic growth. The rebalancing and planned economic policy measures for 2015 are therefore geared towards a different structure of public consumption, one that is said to enable higher economic growth. We aim to ensure that the measures are balanced and distributed among all stakeholders by sharing the financial burden as fairly as possible. On the other hand, these measures must achieve the objective of reducing the deficit below 3% of GDP. A respected choir! The country's sustainable and development-oriented budget is only one article in a comprehensive approach and relationship that we need to establish until the future development of Slovenia. However, this Article is a prerequisite for establishing a coherent chain of measures and practices that will enable successful social development in financial, economic and other areas. Only concerted action, clear common objectives and cooperation in all areas can produce a positive long-term and thus a better future. I thank you for your attention and wish you a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u3	I also give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, to present the proposal for the 2014 budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u4	Your Honor! In the event of an extremely uncertain situation in 2013, when preparing the budget for this year as well as major changes in the first part of this year, the budget rebalancing is a logical consequence. What doesn't seem logical is the fact that we are accepting a rebalancing in November for the current year. This first raises the question whether it is too late and should be accepted already, for example, in June. June would be a logical choice if we did not have a political vacuum, and that was not possible at the time. Furthermore, in 2013 when preparing the budget for this year, the Government foreseen that good planning was almost impossible due to extremely uncertain situations and that the Budget Implementation Act provided for significant possible reallocations between budget lines and a possible increase in the deficit if the expenditure on interest, pensions and payments in the EU were found to be higher than planned. This raises a second question whether the balance sheet is needed at all, especially since, in accordance with the powers, the Finance Minister restricted the taking-over of new commitments already in July. Formally speaking, with huge reallocations and a significant limitation on new commitments, it is likely that even the financial year could be carried out within the maximum possible framework. Nevertheless, we decided that the balance was needed for four reasons. First of all, the differences between the budget adopted for this year and its implementation, which are the result of such major changes that we do not have an impact, changes due to the decisions of the Government, as well as some mistakes in planning, are so great that, in our opinion, a transparent decision must also be made by the National Assembly and amendments to the public. Secondly, the limitation of new commitments puts budgetary users in a very precarious and difficult situation in the implementation of their programmes and these restrictions are, as I said, since July. We have therefore spent time since the beginning of this government's mandate on a number of rounds of agreements on what are urgent needs by the end of the year. This financial year will thus be able to run normally by the end of the year without further limitation after the rebalancing. This also has positive consequences for normal payments to budgetary users and the non-transfer of payment obligations to the following year, which was normal. Thirdly, with this agreed balance, we also have the necessary basis for the next year's budget, but we have also cleared up our fiscal framework and measures for next year's rebalancing. Fourthly, this rebalancing also gives us the opportunity to first assess the positive effects of the large number of structural reforms we have adopted in recent years. Your Honor! As you know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia began its mandate at the end of September 2014 and gave priority to the preparation and adoption of measures to balance public finances by reducing the surplus budget deficit and gradually reducing the structural deficit. The objectives of the 2014 Stability Programme budget strategy are: to address the excessive deficit, i.e. more than 3%, by 2015 and to achieve the medium-term objective of balanced public finances by 2017. The Stability Programme plans to reduce the deficit below 3% of GDP in the following year. The budgetary strategy described in the programme is therefore in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. The first step towards achieving these objectives is to adopt this balance. With the budget rebalancing, the government has set itself a target deficit of 4.3% of the country's sector and we are planning 2.8% for 2015. In particular, the main reasons for drawing up the balance, in addition to those mentioned above, for 2014 are the following. We had a loss of property tax revenues, unplanned debt interest expenditure following the implementation of the 2014 budget changes, a under-planned ongoing transfer to the PPIZ due to the adoption of the new Slovenian State Holding Act in spring 2014, which introduced changes in the financing of regular pension fund expenditure by Kad, a change in the circumstances regarding EU funding, under-planned funding for compulsory public services, additional revenue and a reduction in expenditure due to higher economic growth than expected and additional unplanned revenues. Allow me to briefly present to you the specific estimates of revenue and expenditure. Income first. The 2014 updated revenue estimates, resulting from the achievement achieved in the first nine months of this year and the latest forecast of economic trends, indicate that the total revenue of the state budget in 2014 will be EUR 8 billion 601 million and are lower than the estimate of the last budget adopted for this year, EUR 120.2 million, or 0.2%. The reduction in tax revenue compared to the estimate in the budget adopted is mainly due to the non-implementation of the Real Estate Tax Act, the decline of EUR 205 million, the lower estimates of the implementation of income, the fall of EUR 87 million and the lower collection of excise duties of EUR 45 million. In part, the tax revenue gap will mitigate the higher VAT revenue delivery of 91 million, and the loss of total revenue will also mitigate the inflow of revenues from concessions awarded of around 149 million euros. On the expenditure side: with the proposal for a budget rebalancing, total expenditure is planned at a total of €9 billion 816 million and is EUR 177 million or 1.8% higher than the budget adopted. If we examine the structure of the expenditure in more detail, we will find out the following. The proposal for a rebalancing increases expenditure on goods and services by €106 million compared to the budget adopted. The main derogations are due to the higher costs of maintaining the railway infrastructure and the state road network, the higher obligations of the State to the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs and compensations for the enforcement of the Compensation Act to persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. The right to spend on State debt interest is increased by EUR 151 million in relation to the budget adopted, mainly as a result of higher indebtedness due to higher realised deficits in the 2013 financial receivables and investments account and because of the different structure of the instruments and the conditions of indebtedness provided for in the preparation of the budget. In the budget adopted, the general budget allocation was planned at EUR 50 million, given that by the end of the year only two months are good — in fact, two months is bad, pardon — this is planned only at EUR 2.8 million in the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Subsidies in the proposal for a rebalancing increase by 1.5% in relation to the budget adopted, the largest contribution to this increase is from the implementation of the transport policy, the closure programmes of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the increase in funding for research activities. Transfers to individuals and households are reduced by the proposal for a budget rebalancing, not by reducing rights, but by reducing the number of beneficiaries of monetary compensation for unemployment and parental benefits. Other current domestic transfers are increasing by the end of the year according to the estimated payment dynamics, as already mentioned by funding the country's commitment to the SPIZ for EUR 124 million, current payments to other public service providers for the conduct of the commercial public passenger transport service carried out by the concessionaires and for the implementation of the Slovenian Railway Company Act, which concerns EUR 79 million. On the other hand, resources planned for the public fund in the area of regional development and employment promotion and public institutions in the field of research programmes and projects and higher education activities are being reduced. In the draft budget balance, 32% more resources are planned for current transfers abroad than were planned for this purpose in the adopted budget. The main reason for this increase is through development cooperation and humanitarian assistance. Investment transfers to budgetary users are also increasing by 15.6%, mainly from EU spending. The estimated amount of EU funding expenditure is based on the level of current implementation and the expected dynamics in the implementation of EU programmes by the end of the year. Of course, revenue and expenditure are in short supply. It takes into account all these reasons, with the 2014 proposal for a budget rebalancing, an increase in the deficit of the state budget, as shown by the monetary flow principle, of almost EUR 200 million, a deficit of EUR 1.1 billion 215 million. Taking into account other units of the country's sector, this budget deficit, calculated according to the ESA methodology, is a European methodology that is also followed by the European Commission, in line with EU requirements, means that the country's deficit in 2014 will amount to 4.3% of gross domestic product. This means a 0.2% increase in the deficit at sector level of the country as a whole in view of the commitment made in the 2014 stability and growth programme. Your Honor! The 2014 proposal for a budget rebalancing is the first step and the basis for planning further actions to be taken by the Government, most of them have already been prepared. With each further step, we will continue to pursue the objectives of balancing public finances and at the same time promoting the economy. The European Commission has already shown us confidence with a high 2.4% forecast of economic growth, which already takes into account our financial efforts. Your Honor! It takes into account all the above, I propose that the National Assembly support the proposal for a state budget rebalancing for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u5	The proposal for a rebalancing was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Council of Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 7th urgent session. 11. 2014 as the parent working body considered the draft budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the views of interested working bodies, which took note of the proposal for a rebalancing and did not accept their amendments. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which does not support the proposal for a rebalancing. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Court of Justice. During the business term, qualified SDS and New Slovenia proposed seven amendments to the proposed rebalancing. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Government and Umarje. At the meeting of the Committee, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented the initial explanation for the proposed rebalancing as a response of the Government to the various changes that have taken place this year and the desire for greater transparency of public spending. It further detailed the reasons for the change on the revenue and expenditure side of the budget. Finally, she mentioned that all the changes mentioned on both sides of the budget meant that the cash flow accounted for an increase of €1 billion and €215 million, an increase of €197 million. This means that this year's deficit in the state sector will amount to 4.3% of GDP. The Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development briefly presented the general economic picture for 2014 and said that the situation was much better than forecast, which was mainly affected by increased exports, calming in financial markets and thus better access to finance, better EU resource absorption and positive domestic consumption. He said that the labour market situation has been improving all year. At the same time, he pointed out that, in the longer term, 2% of economic growth is relatively low growth, which has the potential to be even lower, i.e. closer to 1%. This is mainly due to negative factors, namely the unresolved problem of corporate deleveraging, the unfinished process of consolidation of public finances and a strongly increased public debt. In the debate that we have held with the members of the Committee, various views were expressed, some members of the Committee stressed that the 2014 draft budget had already been made on unrealistic and inadequate assumptions and that this resulted in unrealistic budget planning, the result of which was an increase in the deficit of EUR 197 million. They considered that the 2014 rebalancing was not only due to the Government's desire for greater transparency. Some considered that the 2014 proposal for a rebalancing was unnecessary, as it was only a finding act because the changes had already taken place and highlighted a significant reduction in resources for young researchers as well as the promotion of the development of human resources in the economy. They also presented the country's poor excise policy and asked why the country does not owe itself to the European Investment Bank, where the interest rate is more favourable. On the contrary, some members of the Committee felt that the 2014 balance sheet was also needed because of greater transparency in public finances and that the situation was serious. They confirmed the fact that the 2014 rebalancing was unrealistically planned, while stressing the rigidity of the funds or certain commitments already made from the budget. They welcomed the fact that the balance sheet did not interfere with the social rights of the weak. They considered that the role of the National Assembly was to discuss and decide on the rebalancing as it was its competence, although it would be more realistic to decide early in the autumn. The Committee did not support the amendments, but adopted a decision to support the budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much, distinguished President, distinguished Prime Minister, ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We are ahead of adopting the 2014 budget rebalancing. The budget balance at the end of the year is not intended to significantly affect the resources of the budgetary users; it is, of course, a document that will show a more realistic picture of our cash register. This is important for a number of reasons; consumers will have an opportunity to look into a more transparent budgetary framework and this will facilitate their functioning while avoiding the inability to implement those plans which have remained unrealised by the resources precisely because of this lack of clarity of the budget. Even though the rebalancing is adopted at the end of the year, we must not ignore the communication of this document, which does not merely represent a revaluation of the figures for one financial year, but, despite the fact that the budgets are annual, affect and operate for a longer period of time. This year's rebalancing is due to differences between the planned expenditure during the implementation of the budget and the loss of some revenue. Unfortunately, this finding is not without consequences for the deficit, which will increase from 3,2 % planned to 3,4 % of the gross social product. As we take a closer look at the variances of the planned budget with the actual state of our finances, we see that the minus comes from the real estate tax – 200 million – the lower the revenue of European funds, the more money we have to spend on interest because we owe ourselves, and the 120 million circus will go to the pension fund. On the other hand, of course, we have more revenue from the collected VAT, even more taxes collected and, of course, also from the country's assets. That the budget rebalancing is not only a document that we can lock in a drawer on 1 January next year without determining which trap we may have caught in the budget planning and why there have been discrepancies is a knowledge that we must follow. Perhaps this would not be a message of such weight, especially with moderate optimism, positive forecasts of economic growth, while we have relatively well stabilised the banking system. Unfortunately, the truth is much more painful when we reduce the deficit to 2.8 GDP with the future rebalancing for 2015. In doing so, we will be forced to look for solutions from the conundrum. The success of these will depend, in particular, on whether, despite the large budget deficit, we are able to place on the other side a strong bridge that will secure the social security of our citizens and citizens, through which we will be able to take measures to start the economy, or whether this will fall into the abyss of deficits at the expense of commitments, little hope that we are not able to get out of the midst of the crisis in the long run. This time pressure pushes us into a budgetary loop when we are in the light of a short-term solution in reducing the deficit on thin ice, how to set the future balance so that it will not only be better in the light of the predicted accuracy, but rather its greater ambition. It is not worth admitting honestly that in the budgets of all governments in the course of this crisis, it has often been reflected in this logic that the planned budget follows economic growth, rather than, my dears, so that economic growth is also the result of the budget. Budgets have all too often been subject to a kind of combination of big swings right where we shouldn't have afforded an empty forecast. Let me mention the use of European funds. The money we can draw from European funds must not become a spare patch to patch up the budget hole, but a commitment to the government to draw on each euro. Social Democrats believe that we must make the future budgetary policy much broader. In the foreground, not only measures that will follow the reduction of deficits in the short term, but measures that will address deficits over a long period of time, without having to re-interpret tomorrow's policy of restrictions, austerity policy and pliering policy. These policies can reduce our deficit to the desired level, but they cannot help in themselves to recover an economy that needs clear and decisive measures. It does not need to be emphasized that merely and simply pecking is a serious error if it is not followed by direct measures for economic growth. We have also received a painful lesson from indirect aid in the rehabilitation of banks, which the economy has little sense of. Banks have kept their credit doors locked and, unfortunately, the economy is still in a credit crunch. A mental leap in investment will also have to be made. Investments, my dears, are not a budget cost, but a long-term path to economic recovery. We need an action plan with a clear policy that will lead to long-term recovery. Maybe someone will object to my words today if we are today before the 2014 rebalancing. However, once again in this Chamber once again in the coming months, when we talk about the 2015 rebalancing, they will not help much sermons about the need for a rebalancing of action and not just reactions to the existing situation. Social Democrats are advocates of a stable and balanced budget. Some argue that a strong social state does not go hand in hand with a strong economy. We often hear that a strong economy does not need a social state. Moreover, that the social state is suffocating the economy, but that we have too much tax burdens, that we have to cut spending and that everything will in itself be compensated when the economy is out of breath at low taxes. Again, on the other hand, we have those who explain how this government simply implements some neoliberal policy of Brussels, how we can only cuddle everything. The rebalancing, my dears, in front of us shows that everything is not so black and white and that there has been many things done in the past. With this balance as some kind of general for the future, we welcome the tendency to preserve and strengthen the social state. The good news is that resources at the Ministry of Labour and Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities are being reduced on individual items. Because the funds are being reduced due to fewer transfers to the unemployed because there are fewer of them; this is also attributed to the fact – due to a number of measures taken by the Ministry in the past period. The Ministry has actively engaged in the fight against unemployment. In 2013, 5 000 339 people were involved in the public works, and for 2014, the funds under this heading were further increased, for an active employment policy in 2013 and for 2014 EUR 199 million were allocated and the results are here. I mention these measures in order for some to finally recognise that social security is more than just a social transfer, that an active employment policy has helped the unemployed to contribute to the labour market, so the issue of a strong economy without social protection does not hold up. On the other hand, this balance shows, however, some trends that will need to be quickly phased out if we want sustainable and stable economic growth in the long run. With the 2014 rebalancing, resources are falling on the economic growth promotion lines, reducing funds for young researchers, mobility and encouraging the best researchers; and this is not good. Nor can we go beyond the fact that the rebalancing reduces funds at the Ministry of Economy on the basis of less EU funds drawn up due to the reduction of funds with the corresponding Slovenian participation. In other words, because we don't know how to draw on European money, let's sprawl. I don't think that's right. Today, it is not right that the human resources of this government in the Ministry of the Economy are being used in the debate for a rebalancing, but without a strong economic minister, without a strong personality, nothing will be settled there as well. The Social Democrats will support the 2014 budget rebalancing, with a forecast that we will want clear and concrete answers from the government and from the competent ministry, in advance of the next year's rebalancing. Answers to questions about how we will overcome the austerity policy and focus on measures that will reflect in the budget as a clear plan to promote the growth economy and, above all, to ensure people's well-being. Havela beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u9	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a lovely greeting to the distinguished ministerial team, the Prime Minister, the distinguished president and the well-respected assembly! So far, the cost of the crisis in Slovenia has been paid by the poor and the middle layer, while the capital, the richest, has usually received discharges. The proposed budget balance of these trends continues. Again, it will be cut into the social state, which will further burden the weakest, and it will again be cut into the public sector, which will further destroy the medium layer that has been falling apart in this society for many years. In addition: the country will reject the positive economic trends that have emerged this year with cuts in investment. Let me base these fears. First of all, the Ministry of Health. The funds decreased by as much as 10%, while the Government, for example, did not find defence reserves, where expenditure even increased by 1.7%, including the purchase of arms and military equipment, and did not hesitate to reduce resources to provide health care to people without compulsory health insurance. And secondly, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs also saves itself on those who are the weakest. You have reduced the resources for a sub-programme for job creation, allowing employment to be found more difficult, including in the context of public works. Thirdly, resources to support the employment and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities and to equalise opportunities for persons with disabilities are being reduced. You can't just land on that. Aid to disabled persons and to the other weakest members of the company is the last item on which it can be saved. Fourthly, the number of unemployed has indeed decreased this year, and by no means decreased by 19 %, as far as unemployment benefits are being reduced. Apparently, the government is unaware of the problem of unemployment in Slovenia. In Maribor it currently stands at 14.8%, in Murski Sobota 17.8 and in Trbovje, where TET was sent to liquidation yesterday with 160 employees, it is already at the Employment Institute of 4 000 400 job seekers. How can the Government reduce unemployment compensation by a fifth? And last but not least, the trend in investment cuts is very worrying. The proposed rebalancing reduces investment expenditure by €96 million and investment transfers by €27 million. These are trends that Slovenia will certainly not help on the way out of the crisis; rather vice versa. The cuts forecasted in the rebalancing and the cuts forecasted in the 2015 draft budget cannot have a different effect than the cuts made by Minister Šuštersič in 2011: Slovenia was drawn from mild growth in 2010 to another recession. As we have heard in the opening address of the Prime Minister, there is still pressure from abroad for such policies, but in these times they simply hold on more. The proposal for a rebalancing, which is only a subversion to drastic cuts in 2015, refers to cuts of between €700m and €800m, which is about once more than the cuts of Minister Šuštersič, who caused the second recession. We are talking about such cuts now that Italy and France have rejected the European Union's fiscal pact and the European Commission has agreed to do so. We have highlighted this several times in the debates in this assembly, but we have always received the answer that maybe we can afford a second and third economy in Europe, not a small Slovenia. And this is no longer true, the Chancellor of small Austria, Werner Faymann, recently rejected the European Union's calls for savings with the words: "An interesting opinion, but we think otherwise." He told them that they would first take care of stable economic growth in Austria, and then they would become concerned about the balance of public finances. This is a medium-term objective that cannot be achieved without stable growth. If we save during the crisis, there can be no other result than a new recession. What about Slovenia? We'll be more popes than popes again! It is not enough for the new finance minister to cut spending so much that he can get the deficit below 3%, which is the European Union's fiscal objective, but wants to get it back to 2.8%: in 2015! In the United Left, therefore, the balance to be read only as a forecast of cuts in the new year cannot be supported. We ask the President of the Government and the ministerial team: for the first time, are you saying that you want to divide the burdens of the crisis evenly among all stakeholders – how, when you cut the weakest again? Secondly, you say that your goal is to ensure stable economic growth – how, when you have reduced the country's investment consumption by one quarter, and how, in all past years, has it proved that austerity measures have a markedly negative impact on economic growth? The average in the European Union and in Slovenia was that for each euro that the country is saving, economic growth decreased by 1.6 euros. Third time. What makes the new ZUJF different and better than Schušteršič's ZUJF, except that it is once more larger than the one that caused the second recession? And one last time. What prevents you from turning to the European Commission, following the example of Italy, France and Austria, and asking for more time to consolidate public finances? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much, distinguished president of the National Assembly, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar, distinguished ministerial assembly! Already in the preparation of the budgets for 2014 and 2015, Members of the New Slovenia Group argued that both budgets, both for 2014 and 2015, were incomplete, unrealised and, above all, undeveloped and we did not support them. We have repeatedly spoken, especially for the 2014 budget, that it is only a list of wishes. And it turns out we were right. I'm sorry. We'd be glad we weren't right. There will be a need for a rebalancing, i.e. a correction of both budgets, the first one for 2014, which we are dealing with today, the second for 2015, and the government promises to put it into the parliamentary procedure in the short term, immediately in the beginning of next year. Dear Government, we would like to see today's debate as well-intentioned orientations for the 2015 budget rebalancing. The balance of this year's budget has been received by Members to deal with late, practically at the end of the year, when most of the budget commitment has actually been realised and is only about harmonising the funds already spent with the planned. This is practically the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. During the debate on the parental committee, the Government explained that the budget's balance in terms of content was not necessary, since the Government would make the reallocation on the expenditure side itself and would also have the necessary powers and powers in accordance with the Public Finance Act for such transfers. That's right. According to the Government, transparency was the reason for the decision to put the balance into the parliamentary procedure. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, acted wisely when he decided that the 2014 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia would be. According to our assessment, the debate on this important document is also welcome to inform the new Members of the State's budgetary logic and arithmetic, and unfortunately three quarters of the imperfect ministerial team is meeting this content mainly in terms of responsibility, probably for the first time in their lives. It is therefore a dry exercise before the adoption of the 2015 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which will already have to reflect the economic policy of the new government and the current coalition. The situation, ladies and gentlemen, as we have come to believe, tells us that we need a new economic policy, that we need a new business model. Our economic policy has come to the brink of its capabilities years ago. In 2008, Slovenia was lagging 10% behind average European development and today we are lagging behind close to 20%. There is no more time for ex-cathedra theories to provide recipes for a six-year-long crisis; it is time for action and action for the greater material and spiritual well-being of our citizens and citizens; it is time to adapt to a globalised world; it is time for a definitive exit from the crisis. This will not be without structural reforms, it will not be without simplifying all administrative procedures and thereby increasing productivity, it will not be without the internationalisation of our economy and it will not be without the rehabilitation of a state banking system that does not perform its functions, which I asked the President of the Government yesterday for a reason. The 2014 Rebalance of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia shows us a dramatic picture, and this is an increase of 200 million. Common mortals are hard to imagine what 200 million means. It's hard. We've got some euro coins in our pocket and some banknote. 200 million for 2 million Slovenians is practically a burden because it will have to be covered, and this means a burden on each of the Slovenes and Slovenians, all of us 2 million — otherwise they are not taxpayers — and this means a burden that thus amounts to one kilometer long set of euro coins. One kilometer long set of euro coins! For each of the Slovenes and Slovenes! And on this Slovenian euro coin we have the image of Primož Trubar, who said and wrote: "Stop and stay." This is our task, the task of Slovenian policy, to stay. That is why we are talking about a new economic policy, so we are talking about a new business model. And here, if the government comes with the right solutions, it will also have the support of the New Slovenia Group. What could we build with 200 million? Yesterday and these days when we are being pursued by floods, I don't know how many regions in our country this year, we have been saying that we need a good 600 million - 200 million - to be one third, that much to compare. The new Slovenian-Christian Democrats believe that the real reason for this year's budget rebalancing is to prepare the basis for the budget rebalancing for next year, which we know is based on the current budget of the previous year. In this regard, we are concerned in New Slovenia about some of the cuts in resources, where we believe that there should be no reduction. There has been a decline in local infrastructure investment by almost 3 million, but in fact these reductions have been going on for several years. In Novi Slovenija, we proposed, with the amendment tabled on the working committee, that at least in this area the funds should not be reduced. These projects concern the provision of basic infrastructure to the population, or its maintenance, from plumbing, sewerage, roads, sidewalks and so on. Maintenance of local roads and bridges also means deterioration of traffic safety on these roads. We have many road sections in the country that are deadly, where we record and record fatal traffic accidents. Local routes have been poorly maintained in the past due to lack of funds. In some parts of the road, road safety is threatened to the extent that it even threatens the closure of individual sections of the road. Further deterioration in the situation of this infrastructure has resulted in weather conditions that we witnessed this year: stomachs, rains, reptiles, floods and so on. The projected reduction in funds for these purposes would therefore pose an additional threat not only to transport safety but often to the basic possibility of using local roads and therefore the level of funds for these purposes should be maintained at least at the current level. The area where the Government intervenes in budgetary resources and what should not happen is also the area of social security, where the funds are reduced by as much as €15 million. Government representatives, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and representatives of the Finance Ministry ensured that the reduction of funds did not interfere with individual rights and that the planned resources for these purposes remained unallocated due to a reduction in the number of beneficiaries, resulting from more favourable economic developments. Such explanations are only partially correct. In the area of reducing unemployment compensation, there must be a central reason for this elsewhere. It is a matter of the fact that the legislation in force in this area, specifically the Labour Market Regulation Act, is very restrictive both in terms of the timing of the remuneration and in terms of the extent to which the individual beneficiary is entitled to such compensation in the active age. Most beneficiaries have already benefited from the right to compensation and many of them who are still unemployed have no rights under this heading. Social security is provided through financial social assistance. This is also demonstrated by the data from the balance sheet, as this item raises by 10% or 17 million euros. At this point, I must draw the attention of the Government to the necessity of changing the legal basis of family policy and social security, in particular the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. For several years now, social security funds have been declining in the budget, while at the same time we are seeing an increase in poverty. In 2013, this rate of 1 percentage point was higher than the year before. I'm sure this year's data will be even worse. It is clear that the current social legislation of its objective is to ensure at least minimum social security for all people, does not reach and we expect the Government to act quickly in this area. It is worrying to reduce funds in the area of tourism support, which is an important economic sector. Measures that contribute significantly to the more efficient marketing and promotion of our country are financed mainly in the area of innovation, international cooperation, sustainable development of tourism, and measures that help to improve the quality of services in this area. Since we also need to develop tourism in the direction of greater visibility of Slovenia as an attractive green tourist destination, the role of the national tourism organisation is also important. It is in this area that Slovenia can, in the short term, prepare conditions for the creation of competitive tourist products and thus contribute to the attractiveness of the region. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is just a few reasons why Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats of the 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u13	The word is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratusek, for her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the year we accept the 2014 budget balance. We have heard from the representatives of the Government that they have decided to rebalance the budget due to the transparency of the statement of revenue and expenditure of this year's budget. By remembering exactly what the starting points of this year's rebalancing are. It cannot be denied that the downturn of the real estate tax had a significant impact on the revenue side of the budget, not least that we are talking about the decline of around 200 million euros. Then there are inflows from the European cash register, which are slightly lower than planned, and I will not lose too many words, who is responsible for this or what is the cause of this situation, since, last but not least, we have been discussing these issues for about 100 hours in the assembly premises and this year. The expenditure side on some items also shows a different picture as planned. Thus, we have higher debt costs on the one hand and no transfer to the pension register, due to the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act and the related changes in the financing of the Treasury, the Pension Treasury, from Kad. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts and facts that are why we are receiving today's budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. And watch out! These facts were known before, even more; due to these facts, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the necessary conclusions in July 2014 and thus settled this deficit. The question of whether the budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia is necessary can be answered in no way. The 2014 budget could also be implemented without the proposed balance. A structural breakthrough this rebalancing certainly does not bring. However, we can be concerned about the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, who says that the first serious steps in the right direction are ahead of us today, while the Minister of Finance actually confirms my words that this is a matter of fact. Therefore, honourable representatives of the coalition and the government will be very interested in examining your proposal for a rebalancing or amending the budget for 2015, when you will, of course, prepare and mediate this in the National Assembly. All things said are the reasons why we will not vote in favour of the proposed balance in the Alliance's Group. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, I fully agree with one of your fellow Members. After two months of rule, it's really time for you to finally stop dealing with yourself and take seriously the problems that are ahead of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u15	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The balance of the 2014 budget comes to the National Assembly in the framework of the calendar year relatively late, resulting, as has already been said, in the replacement of the government, which has been strong since the second half of the current year. In given circumstances, we can understand the great political and, above all, the social responsibilities of the Government, which is trying to alleviate the short-term situation and then gradually improve. The proposed balance is also an integral part of this process. Whether the proposed solutions go in the right direction, it would be difficult to assess, on a flat-rate basis, the doubts identified in certain rebalancing solutions, of course, remain on our side as well. At the same time, it is clear that it is extremely difficult to recover or alleviate the poor financial situation when it is necessary to resolve practically increasing financial and other systems in the country. However, there is simply no other way to tackle the challenge with maximum responsibility and seriousness. We hope this is what the government is doing best. Undoubtedly, this must take into account the sustainability of social and other systems or balances in our society, which, in many cases, is an even greater supply of irresponsible financial policy in the past. In the context of adopting the 2013 budget rebalancing, I said that, in view of the budgetary crisis we are in, we are still not at the lowest point. Today, unfortunately, the situation is not significantly better, a certain hope that we will be able to see the light at the end of the tunnel, perhaps only a slightly more favourable trend in economic activity in the last period. At the same time, there are many, unfortunately, negative results. Let me stress that the correction of the budget, this is a rebalancing, should not be merely a financial and technical matter, but at least to a certain extent should also have a substantive positive impact on public financial flows in full. As has already been pointed out today, given the circumstances of the proposed rebalance of major structural changes, unfortunately it does not. Very soon, when preparing the 2015 balance, it will also be clearer whether the current balance is properly adjusted from this point of view. The balance of the budget in the work relating to the maintenance and development and functioning of the organisations and institutions of indigenous national communities is not substantially changed or only to a minimum compared to the 2014 budget adopted. This means that the Government in this area respects the agreement that we have concluded together before the beginning of the mandate. We welcome such behaviour because it is necessary to be aware that possible small interventions in this area would further exacerbate the situation of already vulnerable national communities or groups where there is no room for remedial examinations. We thank the Government for the responsible attitude towards this content. In view of all the above and of all the circumstances mentioned, we will support the 2014 budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u17	The text is given by the Mir Cerar Group of the Party, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished ministerial team, honourable Members and honourable Members! In the SMC Group, we welcome the Government's decision to propose a budget rebalancing for 2014, as this represents a suitable step in ensuring greater transparency over the country's business and financial situation. The year 2014 was marked by a number of events with an impact on public finances, and in addition to the structure, the volume of the budget has been indirectly launched, which, in our view, cannot be eliminated only by reallocation of funds between accounts. The trend and assumptions foreseen during the planning period and the many events that have occurred since the adoption of the original 2014 budget version are the driving factor of the differences between the planning situation and today. Let me only point out some of the key events and trends; on the income side with negative effects, in particular, the decline in real estate law, which weighs EUR 205 million, the lower volume of collected income due to pre-optimistic starting points – as the Minister has already said – is about 90 million, mentioned already in terms of the plan, a reduction of 45 million, but it is worth mentioning that last year's implementation is increasing by about 30 million. However, positive deviations in favour of the state budget have brought, first of all, higher value added tax revenues than expected, good 90 million, concessions granted to mobile operators – 150 million euros – and one issue that may be somewhat significant and will also be interesting in the privatisation debate, we have drawn an additional 300 million euros from state-owned companies – in these times. Taking into account many other minor differences, there has been a net negative impact on the revenue side of the budget for a good EUR 20 million. On the expenditure side, the situation is significantly more difficult, with a total of almost €177 million. Let me just mention the additional interest liabilities already mentioned, 150 million euros, then the 50 million Kad contribution to the pension fund, which must now cover the budget, the additional transfer for the purpose of providing statutory obligations to pensioners is therefore still a positive trend in the formation of paid contributions for 127 million euros. A further change in the initially modestly appropriate means of maintaining railways and roads that have been under-invested for years now through a rebalancing of this resource is now increasing by a good EUR 76 million, and some other shortcomings, such as the provision of payments of membership of the Republic of Slovenia in international organisations, are also being addressed by means of a rebalancing, not only of the prestige or reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international space, but also of the possibility of using a wide range of services and resources to which we are entitled as a country and so on. The scope of social transfers is lower by a balance sheet of EUR 60 million than planned. We have nevertheless welcomed this information in the SMC Group because it shows that the positive trends shown by recent macroeconomic analyses are also reflected through the smaller scope of the necessary social transfers than originally envisaged. This does not mean that the situation in Slovenia is good, but only indicates the first tangible signs of recovery in the material situation of citizens and citizens. As already mentioned, the 2014 budget rebalancing is aimed at ensuring greater transparency over the budget and the findings of the actual state of play in which the public finances are located. Today we're 18. 11. 2014, which means that by the end of the year it is less than a month and a half. If today was the beginning of the year, we could talk about the allocation of around 20% of the budget, as the laws of the required commitment would lock up 80% of all funds. Thus, at the end of the year, the maneuvering area of the National Assembly and, consequently, the government is so much narrower. In the SMC Group, we also consider that the rapid introduction of structural reforms in the context of the budget rebalancing in the last weeks of 2014 is not appropriate. As a result, our Group of Members is already elaborating its own proposals for measures that could have a positive impact on the stability of public finances in the medium term. We estimate that some of these can be considered thoroughly and proposed in preparation for the 2015 budget rebalancing. Now we know where we are, the debt is rapidly approaching EUR 30 billion, with interest on loans at the annual level already amounting to EUR 1.1 billion. In relation to the 2014 budget revenue, which is 8.6 billion, this means that interest is already covered by almost 13% of the budget revenue. The appetites of this past debt, which will continue to reflect on past commitments, undermine all other expenditure items of the budget with accrued interest, and this unappreciative burden to an ever-increasing extent has been placed on future generations. Regardless of the acute situation, we believe that certain items in the budget's balance sheet are still oriented by contributing to the normalisation of the situation and by influencing a little more optimism. Comparably, according to the 2013 budget, it can be found that in the current year for investment expenditure and transfer, despite the rebalancing, it still allocates 44% more resources than in the previous year. So last year, the realisation of 876 million euros this year is projected at EUR 262 million. It also follows from the proposal for a rebalancing that European funding will exceed the peak achieved in 2013. This last year was 934 million euros, and we will increase it by about 180 million euros, which we believe is still not enough, but 180 million euros more than last year. To a certain extent, the positive effects of these investments can also be seen from the autumn macroeconomic forecast, which shows the beginnings of positive trends, particularly with regard to GDP growth and employment. Dear Members and Members! We have before us a proposal for the 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the facts and circumstances identified so far, we support the government's proposal for a rebalancing of the bodies concerned and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u19	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the state budget is one country's economic, economic, financial and social policy. It means what will happen in different social and state areas and how the country will work. And here it must be said that the country's budget must be within the framework of the highest national act, this is within the framework of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, since 30 September 2013, Slovenia has not, in unconstitutional condition because it has not actually prepared itself, passed a fiscal rule law that would have enforced a fiscal rule and implemented what is in the constitution. Of course, the unconstitutional situation is probably not acceptable to the government of Mir Cerar, and regardless of the time period, it was expected that he would first prepare a new or apply the existing fiscal rule law. This government and Mr Miro Cerar, who is familiar with the Constitution, did not do so. For this reason, once again: we are in an unconstitutional state with regard to public finances. The Slovenian Democratic Party has therefore introduced a fiscal rule law and expects this coalition to support it, adopt it, of course it can also fix it, but that this law will actually enter into force and that public finances will be in force in the country under the Constitution. Of course, this change in the budget or the balance of the budget – I will talk about amending the budget – is not in accordance with the Constitution, it is not in accordance with the constitutional rule and, ultimately, it is not in line with the commitments made by Slovenia to the European Commission. The deficit is increasing, from some numbers that were essentially planned to 4.3% of the gross social product. As a result, this budget change is not a technical matter, but is a substantive matter. There is a decrease in expenditure, revenue increases; in short, this is about people's lives, because also from this, these budget changes will depend on life and work in Slovenia. I would also like to add, of course, to this, ladies and gentlemen, that if we look at the forecasts made by the President of the Government and the Finance Minister for 2015 when, according to the ESA methodology, he announced a reduction in the deficit from 4.3% of the gross social product to 2.8% of the gross social product, this will mean a major change not only in behaviour but – if you want – in the well-being of all people. This, of course, means a reduction by 1.5% of the gross social product. This currently amounts to around €540.550 million less than the same revenue. As a result, if these forecasts are, of course, this is not enough for economic, economic, financial policy. Not enough because such a solution will mean a mere setback, not development, but actually what would have an optimistic effect on citizens and citizens. Changes in the budget are also a time to sing the most rejected words. The former Prime Minister, former Minister of Finance, former and current Secretary of State, has been promised, here, on this site, that the 2014 budget balance is not needed and that it is not necessary. The words have been devoured, and it is at the National Assembly that this happens as few times as possible, for this also means that the National Assembly loses credibility and loses any government where it actually happens. Of course, anything can be done with redistribution. Anything can be done with redistribution. The budget for 2015 can be adopted by the National Assembly and then reallocations will be made at the end of the year to make the budget completely different. And that's what the government does. And the government can do that, and some things can only be done by the Ministry. So, of course, here is this technique and technique of secondary importance, the content is important. The fact is that the value added tax revenues have increased. They increased due to higher taxation adopted by the government of Alenka Bratušek in mid-2013. For 2 percentage points, the value added tax increased by or by 10 %. And this is the most regressive tax, which means that according to their incomes this tax is the weakest class or people who are the weakest, who have the lowest income, of course pay the most. And of course, that was to be expected! The second thing I would like to say, of course, is the loss of property tax revenue for 209 or 207 — whatever — revenues. The real estate tax was introduced into the procedure of the National Assembly following the introduction of the 2014 budget, which is still unconstitutional and unprofessional and, in essence, contrary to the legislation. This real estate tax was frowned upon and accepted in the National Assembly for several months, with the opposition saying that, for the first time, the law was impractical, that it was unfair, that it was unfair and that it would fall in the Constitutional Court. And he's covered in length and thread. Contrary to four or five articles of the Constitution, it did not provide legal certainty, it did not provide legal certainty; in short, it had already been condemned to failure. And yet, even when he fell, it was said that due to the fall of real estate tax there was no need to make a budget rebalancing. We will compensate by better tax collection, we will compensate by better management of public procurement and so on and so forth, with higher taxes on the environment or on the poor environment. At that time, it was assured that there was no need to change the budget, and today this is one of the main reasons cited here for the real estate tax, which is one of the main reasons. It's not! That's when the ladies and gentlemen said it wasn't. For 45 million, we picked up less excise duties. 45 million less excise duties, while we are so-called a transit country – I apologize for the ugly expression. While, of course, at a favourable price, especially oil derivatives, all those travelling through Slovenia should fill the reservoir in Slovenia, but not in Slovenia. And that we have too high gas prices compared to Croatia, even compared to Austria and, of course, border countries. And that's not actually happening. Special arrangements, special arrangements that individual carriers have with individual companies selling petroleum derivatives, should also be considered here. And with the lowest oil price today in the last four years — 80 U.S. dollars for barrels — we have such a price for oil derivatives! And no wonder we don't have any income from it! I think they're still too tall, that's my personal opinion, about what kind of excise policy we've been running over the past year and a half. These matters have been predictable and can be arranged in a different way and can also be arranged to make revenues more efficient. Why did the cost increase? Because we're more in debt. Why? Because we had forgotten about the PPIZ or planned too little for the PPIZ or the PPIZ because of problems with Kadu or the state holding company In short, this privatisation did not take place, no work was done and therefore it was necessary to increase the expenditure of the state budget for the PPIZ, which means that additional money would have to be transferred to the PPIZ. [[…]] But, ladies and gentlemen, all this is in the hands of the government; all this is in the hands of the government! And if the government isn't doing well here, there's going to be budget corrections. I mentioned an increase in interest. For 82% of gross social product, Slovenia will be in charge, these are forecasts. The European Commission requires a maximum of 60% of the debt. 30 billion and, of course, the huge billions of interest paid by Slovenia for debts abroad. We can compare with Italy, where the amount of 130 % of the gross social product is, but is 70 % of that debt payable to Italy, to the country. Money stays in the country, invests and so on. With us, more than 70% are paid across the Atlantic. Is this acceptable for future generations to pay more than a billion euros in interest? It's not acceptable! However, this will continue the Mira Cerar government, as from 4.8 billion we will now be indebted to 5.9 billion. That is how much the State will be able to repay in 2014. Of course, there is nothing done to optimise these debts; there is no search for better, cheaper lenders, those who can actually offer money at a lower interest rate. And here's the question of what we're actually going to pay and how much we're going to pay. According to data from the Ministry of Finance – and this was also the data given in response to the question of the mission – we will pay 2 billion 253 million principals in 2015 and almost 1 billion interest. The information provided by the State Secretary to the Finance Committee was slightly different, and it said a billion 900 principals. Total 3 billion 235 to date; in 2016 total 4 billion 377 – on 20. Ten. 2014 if we do not commit ourselves. But all we're going to do is pay more. Ladies and gentlemen, is this acceptable for future generations?? Do we have moral and ethical rights? Does the government of Mir Cerar have the moral and ethical right to owe future generations? Not to provide them with education, better education, but to provide them with debts and interest?Oh, my God! I think one of these things has to be done! That's what I'm talking about. However, I am, of course, pleased that the Government plans to reduce the deficit in 2018 to 0.3% of the gross social product. That's what the Ministry of Finance wrote. How that's gonna happen, we don't know right now. We don't know right now! That is why this issue is open and I hope that it will be clarified for the 2015 budget. The President of the Government has already talked about the 2015 budget, of course, how everything will go great. The next question, which remains open and which is not taken into account here in or in debt, is actually the recapitalisation in 2015, the recapitalisation of banks. The Governor of Banka Slovenije announced or did not rule out the possibility of requesting owners three days ago, in which case it is a state for the three largest system banks to require additional recapitalisation. And not out of profit! You know, the gains made mean, of course, that the budget doesn't get the money, although, of course, the European Central Bank or the European Commission decided that banks that have been recapitalised should not pay the profits. In fact, it means that this profit does not actually come into the budget. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is an open question. The open question is privatisation. These 15 companies, ladies and gentlemen – whether this will be done or not, but something is quite clear here: regardless of the differences in opinion in the National Assembly on privatisation, it is the credibility of the State. Each government has so far promised or the last two governments have promised to privatise these two companies. In fact, promises mean something again, even in an international environment, and I hope that there will be some harmonisation in this regard. The second question is what will happen to businesses. Banks expect more money because the Governor will require additional recapitalisation, but they have excellent liquidity, they have excellent liquidity and they have no projects, as they say – I quote, of course, bankers. And they always come to the National Assembly, tell us how great it is to be managed, how great they have excellent leadership, how they are doing in short, and how they convince politics, governments and so on, how to put money in banks, taxpayers' money. In fact, this raises the question whether bankers run a government, or a finance minister, or a prime minister or a prime minister and ministers run banks, as nothing material happens in the supervisory boards. This does not apply only to Slovenia. It also applies to Europe. Who runs the country and who runs the world? I propose a slightly more active state policy as the owner of all these banks. Otherwise, nothing will happen. Not by incurring companies, as was actually said. In short, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of uncertainty in this budget and in this amending budget, which sets out the lives of citizens and citizens. In addition, there have been confusions before, and there are many words that have been swallowed up. There is a huge difference between what is said and finally between reality — if you want between words and actions — and I fear that in this coalition too. The fact is, the deficit is increasing, the debt is increasing, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is not improving on all international scales, it is not a priority, it is not a priority, what is actually going to happen here, nor are there development objectives. In short, everything a budget should actually have. In the Slovenian Democratic Party of this budget, we will not in fact support this budget change. And those are the reasons. In the future, however, we will support all those measures that mean, as we have predicted, consolidation of public finances, rehabilitation of the banking system, greater competitiveness, greater prosperity for people. That's what we're gonna do! Your business is whether it's a technical document for you or it's a content document, but people will live differently because of this document. In these parts, which are in this budget, the Slovenian Democratic Party does not want to be among them, so it will not support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, followed by Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u22	Dear President, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to briefly present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year. Introductory wording: Desus will support this budget balance. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the fact that the Government performed its work two months ago. It faces major challenges, and the measures that will have to be taken in the future will be extremely difficult. We are adopting the proposal for a rebalancing right before the end of the financial year, so it is understandable that it cannot contain structural projects, structural measures that will produce long-term, long-term results. This includes the reallocation of funds with a view to smooth implementation and, in particular, the conclusion of the financial year. Of course, with the situation in the country and also with the proposal for a rebalancing, we cannot be entirely satisfied. However, in view of the financial framework we have, it is imperative that, wherever possible, reserves and rebalancing be made available so that we can complete the financial year with as little deficit as possible while maintaining the level of rights of the socially disadvantaged. Such a proposal for a budget rebalancing before us also reflects these requirements and is an optimal solution at a given time. The proposal for a rebalancing, as has been said, provides for revenue of 8.6 billion or less for a good 20 million euro than in the current budget. The planned expenditure is €9.8 billion and €176 million more than in the approved budget. It was also said that the loss of revenue on the part of the tax revenue and the EU funds received was. The reduction in tax revenues compared to the assessment in the adopted budget is mainly due to the failure to enforce the real estate tax law, the lower estimates of the realisation of income and, unfortunately, the reduced excise duties collected. The balance also provides additional funds for the transfer of the budget to the ZPIZ, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. It is also necessary to provide additional resources for the implementation of economic public services in the field of rail and road transport. The increase in planned expenditure is also necessary in order to provide or provide additional funds for interest, to be in charge after the implementation of the 2014 budget changes and to cover other unplanned obligations such as compensation payments under judicial decisions, State liabilities to craftsmen and entrepreneurs and compensation for cancellations, and it is likely that it could count something else. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that the Government has managed to prepare a rebalance so that the situation of citizens does not deteriorate, and in particular that the material situation of the most vulnerable groups does not deteriorate. In particular, the reduction in the number of beneficiaries, the reduction in the nominal amount of individual remuneration or transfer, and the time or period of receipt under individual budget lines, as a result of changes in laws such as the ZUJF and the ZUPJS, have led to a reduction in the payment of transfers to individuals and households under individual budget lines. We are pleased that the agreed or legally defined rights with this balance are not affected, as is also necessary in the preparation of the amending budget for the following year. In the Desus Group, we would like to make the maximum effort in the future to obtain significantly more funding on the revenue side of the budget. Much energy and work must be invested in promoting our economy, especially exports, attracting strategic investments in the country, improving the operations of state-owned enterprises mainly in terms of the consistent implementation of the so-called – or without the so-called – corporate governance, limiting the grey economy, so that we will not be forced to violate our rights in the future and tighten our belts where there is virtually no longer anything to take. Colleagues and colleagues, in one word: we want to preserve the social and legal state and we will do our utmost in Desus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u23	We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the individual parts of the Rebalancing Agenda. As an individual part, for the first time, the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing, secondly, the specific parts of the proposal for a rebalancing and third time, the development programme plan. First of all, we are moving on to the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Marusha Škopac has the floor. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u24	Honourable President, Honourable Council of Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government has found that the implementation of the budget and the expectation by the end of the year in some areas is significantly different from the plans included in the adopted budget from last November. The key objective of the rebalancing is to demonstrate transparently the expected revenue and expenditure of the state budget and the deficit level of the state budget, which also has a significant impact on the level of the deficit of the state sector as a whole identified under the ESA-95 methodology. The government's goal is still to remain committed to the gradual consolidation of public finances and to this gradual reduction of the state budget deficit. However, the Government found that, under the circumstances, it was not possible to maintain the deficit of the state budget found after the cash flow at the level planned last autumn, thus proposing an increase in the budget deficit by EUR 197 million through the rebalancing of the budget. On the revenue side of the State budget, income from real estate tax and lower income from income income tax occurred. The assessment of the implementation of the income for this year is 87 million lower than that planned by the budget adopted. In part, this loss will be mitigated by higher VAT revenues, which are up to €91.5 million. At the same time, revenues from corporate tax will be slightly higher. Also in the field of non-tax revenue, this year’s revenue is different or higher than what we planned last year. Revenues from the award of concessions for mobile frequency operators were realised, higher dividend revenues were realised and higher revenues from other non-tax revenues were realised. On the expenditure side of the budget, the key elements requiring the preparation of the balance sheet are the provision of an additional transfer to the pension fund, as the Spring implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act resulted in the fall of EUR 190 million, which was originally planned to be paid by Kad. Nevertheless, with the proposal for a rebalancing, we do not increase the expenditure for transfers to the pension fund by 190 million, but by 127, because the realisation of the pension fund's income from contributions is higher than that planned when the budget is adopted. The second element requiring action on the expenditure side is higher funding expenditure or public debt servicing of EUR 151 million. This is expenditure which was not planned last year and is due to the commitment that took place following the implementation of the adopted budget last year for this year. The proposal for a rebalancing also changes the planned amounts, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, in connection with the drawing-up of European funds, down by 84 million in relation to the amount of the budget adopted. The former government has foreseen almost 1.2 billion European funds for 2014, and it is now estimated that the funds will amount to €115 million. In the SMC, we welcome such a small gap between the envisaged and realised European funds. It should also be stressed that, at the annual level, we have not yet exhausted as much European resources from the state budget as we have this year. In 2013, for example, we pumped them at almost 934 million euros. If we look at the proposal for a rebalancing across individual ministries, we should mention the Ministry of Infrastructure. The increase in resources at the Ministry of Infrastructure is mainly intended to cover the deficit for the regular maintenance of state roads, which is foreseen in the proposal for a rebalancing of EUR 76.5 million. An additional €39 million for concessions to line bus passengers and to subsidise the transport of pupils and students is also an additional €25.3 million. While in the field of energy efficiency, which combines activities related to the binding objectives of European and national energy policy, additional European funds amounting to €4.2 million are provided to increase energy efficiency through energy recovery measures and sustainable public sector buildings. It should also be noted that there is also an increase in resources to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness at the Ministry of Finance by €3.5 million. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is acquiring an additional EUR 20.5 million. Of this, almost €10 million for political diplomacy and consular services, an additional €5 million for economic diplomacy, which is still important for promoting economic growth. In the light of all natural disasters in Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence has received almost 6 million additional Euros. Of this, the largest Department of Protection and Rescue is €4.2 million. The SMC Group is aware of the need to balance the budget, which is why we will support the 2014 budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u25	The word is from Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear High Council! I would like to respond to some of the introductory presentations. It's clear that I'm going to vote for the rebalancing. I assess it as a finding, and I also assess it that it is legally correct, that it is more appropriate to carry it out than to leave it to the Ministry of Finance, that it still manages the limits allowed and that the public and Parliament are also aware of what has happened in the course of this management in this fairly turbulent year 2014. I find that the rebalancing, however, gives the basis that reproduction runs relatively normal in Slovenia, is said not to have this effect, as did the unfortunate ZUJF in 2012, when it caused a very deep recession, of a completely Slovenian nature. This recession did not come with the decline in demand from our trading partners, but Slovenia’s exports were growing at the time, partly due technically to a reduction in the expenditure of the state and the public sector, partly due to deep pessimism and some kind of – if I use a more graphic term – hysteria that was created at the time. Of course, the ZUJF tried to solve the problem of the Slovenian public financial deficit, which is essentially the deficit of a national economic sub-system, you have to take this into account. Whenever you say that we spend more on Slovenian citizens and citizens than we do, it will not hold. We have had an surplus for quite some time, somewhere since 2010, 2011 is increasing, last year it reached 7.6% of gross domestic product, depending on how you round. This shows that we have more national economic savings than our spending and that we also finance the entire budget deficit — what is being transferred into debt or public debt a little later. How did this system deficit come about? I think he needs to be treated where he came from. It was created by two so-called tax reforms; 2007 dropped tax rates on both income and income tax on legal persons and was abolished on paid wages and then, even more importantly, “funny or tragic” was introduced in 2012, when the corporate tax rate was reduced and some irrationally large reliefs were introduced for investments that did not have any effect. This was the period when the crisis in the internal market arose in Slovenia's internal market. The Slovenian State has eliminated this by raising excise duties and raising value added tax rates to some extent and, according to some of my quick estimates, around 1.3% of GDP or 470 million remains and needs to be found with some other revenues. The pressure on the different system of operation of the quarterly sector, which creates human capital, is real school, culture, health, science, security, or the social role of the country, and then creating a reduction in cohesion and reduced mutual trust, will not produce results or result in negative results. It is therefore necessary to seek solutions on the part of public financial revenues. For the first time, of course, we have the option of introducing tax boxes, limiting cash transactions, substantially increasing inflows by more efficient collection. We have introduced a new computer system in the Tax Administration, today it is called the Financial Administration when it merged with Customs. Of course, this system has to guide, it has to guide, it has to give enough data to the inspectors, where they have to look to increase payments in medium-sized and large enterprises, where the tax box will not yield so much results. Then, of course, it is necessary to extend the tax bills to everything, not just trade and catering, to the entire economy that deals with the population. Then there remains the issue of progressiveity in income, and it is expected that when this happens, the proposal will be prepared in the finance ministry with the appropriate analytical basis. Then, at least the elimination of those benefits introduced by the corporate income tax in April 2012 and the rates due to the psychological impact probably no longer show any change. Finally, we still have a real estate tax — the 200 million you keep mentioning is probably excessive. It is necessary to take into account the social structure in Slovenia, including the manner of ownership, as far as certain properties have been made, where people who have built themselves now will pay the tax, where liquidity is likely to result from the modernisation of this real estate tax, it is said that this is the current compensation for the use of building land – it is less, probably half less, but something is. [[…]] It is said that there is enough room to be fully rehabilitated by half of what two reckless so-called tax reforms have done. As we look at social policy, however, the social role of the state and all that has been said, how this can be further improved, however, the role of the State on the credit policy must also be looked at. The Slovenian credit policy puts pressure on businesses, by pressure on businesses, creates a situation in which companies are forced to either forgive, squander their activities or even fail. This is done strictly, it is known exactly when it started; it started in July 2010 and continues without mercy to the final objective of the sale of Slovenia – that is to be known. Because someone can make a mistake, it's human to make a mistake, these two tax reforms, they were a mistake, nobody here wanted to hurt when they introduced it, nobody wanted anything bad. But there, to make a mistake, you don't fix it, you know, but there's a sign, such an indicator that something's really wrong, that you have to cut down there and ask how it's possible that credits are still shrinking, and elsewhere they can grow. And he's going to say that somewhere else they're falling, they're down by 2% and they're down by 20%, they're down by four billion to the economy, and that's what's left. [[…]] My dear, the economy that lost so much credit in 2014 rose from the ground, the Slovenian economy. We must be proud of what happened this year! Proud! Of course, with this kind of credit policy. Otherwise, it would be expected that economic growth will also be restored once such growth in exports. Then, interest. Of course, public debt has increased significantly more than it would have been to finance the deficit. If you make a comparison to the published data, which was by June of this year from 31 December 2008, then you will get this difference about the bad ten billion. Slovenia owed 10 billion more than it needed to finance the deficit. It is known that three billion and a half lie, surrounded by the finance ministry, which has it as a liquidity reserve. This explains that we are in a desperate position to discuss this balance as a state in a desperate position. At the same time, we have a surplus in external exchange, at the same time we have enough liquidity reserves, and at the same time we have such a small banking sector that we apply after this – all independent analysts consider us to be the least vulnerable members of the European Union, but we go with some hysteria, with some fear that it may be our folklore, but it can be something else. [[…]] And now some interest is to be expected from this money, which was placed on the economy above the deficit. Some commitments may have been made, but these obligations cannot reach such large amounts. Interestingly, some data now show that the debt will increase significantly by the end of the year, but we will wait and obtain precise information on the structure of this increase with regard to the questions sent. Here, too, it is expected that interest on paid funds, or income, or whatever we call it, will at least pay back what was due to them. Thus, on this side, the inflows of property must increase sufficiently if this property is to somehow rotate. Then we have companies and institutions, banks and so on, which are now on the "eater" of those who want to buy them. Here it will be very good – I do not know if it is right, Dr Dobovšek will fix me, whether it can be said that it is money laundering or not, but if someone buys a bank where EUR 800 million of state money has been invested, for EUR 200 to 300 million and then has it nicely, then I do not know where such an activity could be classified in relation to various human activities; especially if it is required by the European Union to sell it by the end of 2016, but by the end of this year at a price that is substantially below the book value. Whatever you're looking at, not just after how much the state has invested in it. I therefore think that it is necessary to increase resources, not only for development or for development, because development policies in Slovenia have been running very intensively since 2009 but also for security. In particular for institutions that will be professionally committed to such conduct, which will be able to detect backgrounds, connections, externally and internally. Here any savings means a real direct loss of material, even if you count down the possibility that once sold out, there is no longer any basis for the existence of the Slovenian people, we will crash into some kind of robbery. But here is exactly the question of employment, what if then again, as in the old Austro-Hungarians, a third of the inhabitants of this area or our country are now evicted, then there are 300,000, today there are more of us, it will be 700,000 people forced to leave. The main reason was that the money had leaked, and the accumulation had drained from the former Kranjska and other countries from which Slovenia originated. And here we also need to be financed by the institutions of the rule of law, about two of them, which should also provide this part of the security that is now critical or our struggle with this threat that we are now facing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this general part? The application has begun. 7 registered. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman! The balance of this budget could be said to reflect the situation in the country, inadequate planning and continuation of this policy, which the Government continues to pursue. Data show that Slovenia is falling on the competitiveness scale of the business environment, debt is increasing, and what we will be able to leave our children, I fear it will only be credit. There are also increasing obligations to pay interest on loans, we see in this budget balance that there are about a billion 100 of them, and if I compare a little with an investment, we could compare them with such a singing TES-6 in Scotland. I must say that if I had already expected this rebalancing, I had expected it in the sense that budget lines would increase to address the consequences of natural disasters. Our party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, has tabled four amendments to the Finance Committee, which have gone this way and have been proposed at 9.5 million, but unfortunately they have all been rejected. On the other hand, we see on the income side of the general budget, which I have also pointed out on the Committee on Finance, that the contributions received by foreign non-governmental organisations are being reduced, which is about 6 million, which is exactly two thirds of the planned revenue. I didn't get an explanation on the board. I think it was more of a budget push. I also did not get a clear answer for the big drop in the EU budget, regional development, which is 90 million, as well as one quarter of the expected or planned funds. We like to say here that it is the country's fault, that it is the EU's fault, that it is the EU's fault, and I don't know who else, but I think it's because we don't have the right strategy, we don't have the projects and we don't have the responsibility. On the expenditure side, we see that the support of local self-government, namely 1.5 million, and the coordination of the development of the regions, that is to say 61.7 million. This worries me very much because it is taking so much to the local communities, because we know that local communities are a driver of development mainly in rural areas. Furthermore, the budget lines include the promotion of entrepreneurship, competitiveness – 35 million, scientific research activities supporting the economy, 9 million, the development of youth science, and we know that investing in young people in the long term is 10 times more profitable, the development of rural areas 14 million and so on. I would say that this rebalancing is somehow taking place on those budget lines that are essential for the development itself, the well-being of society and, above all, our economy. We must be aware that fundamental changes will be needed in the second year in order to require reforms, and I hope that we will take this into account when planning or adopting at least the balance for 2015 and that we will not take it where we can later say in the long term, much to gain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, secretary of state, secretary, minister! We will probably never agree in the state on what tax reform, which tax changes are necessary and which are not necessary, so we will probably not agree on what happened in 2007 and in 2014. At that time, tax reforms were made and tax reforms were made mainly to increase the competitiveness of the economy, to reduce and simplify tax regulations, to reduce rates of course, and in 2007 the state was a surplus, not a deficit, but a surplus; and also in 2008. Then came the crisis, the fall of gross social product and so on and already in 2008 it was also made by the previous government, or if you want the government of Janez Janša, some plan, some plan, some plan, what the next government, the government of Borut Pahor, would do about taxes and the whole economic policy, but it did not do so then. As a result, of course, we can say that this was a mistake, but this was an unwitting error, just as it was an unwitting error in 2007. In short, it's not about whether a mistake occurred, whether someone thinks something was wrong or not, but it's about what the effects were then. And these effects were that it was a surplus of the state budget or the public sector. It could probably be even bigger, and it is now obvious whether then the surplus could be even greater. It could probably be even greater in a certain way, but it has proved that, with better competitiveness, the surplus was also in the case of taxes falling and when revenues were higher – of course at the time of economic growth. What are these links now between economic growth, exports, competitiveness and revenues, then lower taxes, lower burdens on both the economy and the population, so that the revenues were obviously higher. If we look at the situation a little further, and if it is mentioned and several times clear of the proposals to reduce the corporate tax rate, then the actual situation today and of course competitiveness must be taken into account. I am not talking here about the competitiveness of tax systems in Europe. I have noticed somewhere that the lowest rate is 0.25%, in Luxembourg, on the basis of an agreement. On the basis of an agreement, which means that certain Member States of the European Union have the possibility of having a multinational, a company, an individual who has already agreed with the State at whatever rate the tax will be paid. It's just now what came out a few weeks ago or a few days ago about how much it is and here is the competitiveness of the tax system. [[…]] I am not going into whether this is fair competition or harmful competition, this will probably be clarified, but it is likely that if we have such competitors in the tax area, probably that tax rate that was proposed, 15% is probably too low and it is transparent. But this is the situation; many have been surprised, most probably not, but those who have not been surprised are in a very narrow minority. Thus, with regard to tax rates, the fact that even a low tax rate, the appropriate tax rate can bring higher revenues to the state budget. With regard to the abolition of tax reliefs, especially when it comes to research and development here, I would not actually go into this, because I think that we are still involved in research and development and investment in research and development after some analyses, according to some scales in a good sixth place, which means that it still means something. As regards the tax receipts that are being written this time, see, the tax cans will not save the deficit of the state budget, nor will they solve the revenue side of the budget, no, there will be many complications. [[…]] There's a lot of talk about tax receipts that could have been if it had been willing and if it hadn't been for the constant pressure of the lobby, they'd have been set up three, four years ago. Any government could do that. There is legislation, it has to be pulled out of the drawer and the matter will be resolved. So it's too much talk and too much is expected of tax receipts. Too much is expected, in my personal opinion, of the revenues from the so-called grey economy. From the black economy – yes, but from this, if you think you will, because you will tax someone who sells mushrooms by the road or similar things, what we read in the newspapers See, here is a lot more money given in the tax process itself, much more money in the tax process than the actual effect. [[…]] However, this has some psychological effects, pear effects and similar things. This is probably how I will never agree with some of my colleagues with this point of view, but it is also right; we do not all have to agree on everything. If we are now talking about the 2014 budget, which is actually over, I think that if any damage had been done in this budget, also that actually in July the payments had stopped or not just the payments, including my obligations, which were probably already there, so of course this question is what will actually happen. I think that those who are talking today about the fact that the ZUJF is inappropriate should be borne in mind that on the Finance Committee you supported the ZUJF on the tax rate and on the additional burden, however, on income. So I don't want some of them to be double-crossed. However, I think that, as the government has already announced, it will come with some new ZUJF, anything that will have to be much more radical, given what the President of the Government has said here today and what the Minister of Finance has said here. Here it has been said, 1.5% of gross social product points will actually have to be saved somewhere, while growth does not ensure that this can be saved. This ZUJF has had an impact of some 350 million, maybe 400 million, but I think there will be at least 60 to 70% more here if this government actually adheres to what needs to be done. This is how I expect that in addition to the new ZUJF, there will be something more encouraging than this government's 2015 budget, including something that will increase competitiveness. For example, that at least she will be perfect after a long time, that she will be perfect, and that all the departments will be able to work with their ministers. For this agony of ministers and ministries, and so on, takes too long. Especially because, after all, some people don't know who to communicate with; they don't already know who to communicate with in Europe, if you don't have some time – for example, I don't know, I think the Ministry of Health has been run by the President of the Government for a long time, and then it just doesn't work. The question is, how can a state without ministries, without ministers or ministers now work for several months, perhaps even a few years? That's probably what's going on, and it's going to go on in the future. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, Ambassadors, Members of Parliament, welcome on my behalf as well! Today we have the 2014 budget balance ahead of us. This is the budget for which the former Minister of Finance said at the end of July that it was real and that the balance would not be needed. Similarly, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said in October; that it was real and that it was followed by detailed assessments. But they are? That the 2014 budget did not come into existence on a realistic basis, we already have it on tables these days. And let me point out some of these unrealistic bases. One of these is that property tax revenues were planned when there was no legal basis for them. The second is that it is planned to draw European funds from the new financial perspective 2014-2020, although the documents underlying the pumping were not confirmed at the time and are not yet today. No increased interest expenditure was planned either, although I believe that the additional debt that followed had already been planned and knew by the end of 2013. And I'm going to stop a little bit at the points of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology themselves. The overall change in the reduction is just over 128 million euros. It's a very high number. The State Secretary of the Ministry of the Economy, although a bit reassured me on the Committee, explained that there was a decrease of €104 million in these funds, that this reduction was linked to the lack of funds from the new financial perspective. Which, of course, was not possible because the documents and the legal basis for this had not yet existed. Taking into account that a new Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy has been created and we take this 16 million here, we could really say that there should be no substantive substantive difference here. However, the following day on the Finance Committee, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said something different, namely that only €10 million of funding from the new financial perspective was planned at the Ministry of Economic Development, the remaining reduction would be based on the surplus rights of consumption of the old financial perspective. When we were setting up the government team, we warned them that the team was operating on a few announcements. As far as we can see, she hasn't been able to make the most of it. But anyway, these are the same numbers of different explanations, and we would still like to know what that information is, which is real and which is the real reason for reducing these 128 million euros. If we look at which items this reduction has taken place, this is worrying. Local self-government for just over €64 million, entrepreneurship and competitiveness – just over €35 million and support for the development of tourism – almost €17 million. We are talking so much about how Slovenia should be a more tourist destination! If I return to the result itself or to the deficit of this budget. In 2014, we will spend 1.2 billion more than the revenue itself in the budget, of which almost 1.1 billion interest. It's an extremely high number! I believe that citizens and citizens can't even imagine the amount here. But what about here? Does anyone have any idea how much we're burdening all generations behind us? What does that mean for our children, our grandchildren? When will we be able to repay this, when will this debt finally end? I don't think we can take it that easily. But anyway, on the side of the coalition, we don't see any reason to deny it, I'm afraid. Here I would appeal to all of you to imagine and, above all, to wonder how far we will go with this debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u34	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Council of Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! The fact is that the 2014 budget rebalancing is a finding act. Despite this fact, we cannot, today we are on November 18th, this budget balance will be in place at the end of November, and this means that there will be no effect on the country's operations. However, there are some facts to be said about this budget rebalancing, namely that all the facts cited by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the adoption of this budget have been confirmed. These are the facts that this budget was made on unrealistic assumptions that it was made on unrealistic incomes and also on unrealistic expenditure. It was interesting to listen to representatives of the government on various committees and on the mother's working body on Saturday, when we SDS Members got the feeling that the government was trying to make this budget a success story. But this story is a completely different thing, I think this budget rebalancing clearly tells what the real situation in Slovenia is in general. This rebalancing budget could also call Slovenia’s disastrous management in 2014. For what? This budget was made on significantly worse macroeconomic assumptions than it actually did over the year thereafter. This means that the assumptions of Banka Slovenije, Umarje, were significantly worse in the preparation of this budget. In fact, the situation improved during 2014. It was a higher economic growth than expected. The result of higher economic ownership in Slovenia is mainly attributed to favourable influences in Western Europe. Slovenia is export-oriented and due to growth and good governance mainly in the countries of Germany, Austria, as a result of the growth of the Slovenian economy. The fact is now that macroeconomic assumptions have been worse than actual assumptions and, finally, we will have a higher deficit of about 200 million euros in this balance. Dear representatives of the government or the Ministry of Finance, you can explain this to me. The macroeconomic assumptions were significantly worse, but in fact we have a significantly higher deficit in the end. This deficit is about 20% higher, the country's deficit at the end of the year will be 1.2 billion euros, and the existing balance forecasted 1 billion at the end of the year, I would say, worse forecasts than this rebalancing was prepared. I see here that there is clear evidence that the governance of the country was inadequate in 2014. A catastrophic debt policy, a catastrophic tax policy, a catastrophic excise policy, and not selling stories that this rebalancing would not be necessary or that this rebalancing would be necessary due to the collapse of the real estate tax. In the case of real estate tax, the Slovenian Democratic Party would always point out that this tax is unrealistic, that the Court of Justice has also rejected it in its entirety. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the government then came to the National Assembly and said: this will not have any effect; we will try to replace the loss of property tax income by raising other tax burdens and, of course, raising excise duties. And throughout the year, you've been selling a story that budget rebalancing won't be necessary. Finally, we get the end of November a budget rebalancing, which clearly says the deficit is increasing by 200 million euros. And Slovenia will end 2014 with 1.2 billion euro deficits. She needs to get some clean wine. Today we have listened to the President of the Government, we have listened to the Minister of Finance as they try to convince the National Assembly and the general Slovenian public that the main objective of this government is to consolidate public finances. Dear representatives of the Government, a respected coalition, if you were really interested in consolidating public finances, then a month ago they would have brought an implementing law on fiscal rules to the National Assembly. Slovenia has been in an unconstitutional position for about a year and this would be the main indicator that your government, your coalition, is indeed for the consolidation of public finances. And until we see it, we won't believe it. All the actions of the current government in these 60 days point to the fact that you will continue the policy of the former government, that is, the debt policy and the tax burden policy. It is clear from the law on the implementation of the budget, which we will talk about later, that the government of Mir Cerar and the current coalition with this document are opening the first new tax burden for 2015. Respected coalition, so many negative things we could have listened to in the adoption of the Law on the Application of Public Finances, the so-called ZUJF, and now you are actually expanding this ZUJF and prolonging it in 2015, and this will give us the first new tax burden when the income level of the fourth class is maintained – taxation at 50% rate. This was foreseen to go from the ZUJF, in 2014, it is 2013 and then withdraws. Nor did the Secretary of State on the home financial committee give any valid reasons why the validity of the ZUJF is increasing. Finally, the attitude of this government, this coalition, I would say, to both the National Assembly and the general public, shows the fact that when we spoke about the country's most important document on the working body, there was no Minister of Finance present and there was no argument or excuse for which the Minister of Finance was not present. The fact that this budget is lukewarm – I call it "skull" – which we are dealing with today is also that the previous Government did not foresee in the revenue budget the concessions for the granting of mobile frequencies. This is an additional income to the country 145 million, while we are talking about a deficit of 200 million euros. Two things I would point out in this budget rebalancing: on the revenue side, the loss of 45 million from excise policy, which is clear evidence that the excise policy of the former and the current government is not appropriate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly warned that excise policy is inadequate both in the field of oil derivatives and in the field of cigarettes and alcohol. We increase excise duties, burden the economy, burden the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, but we have a lower income of 45 million in the budget. And the current government is continuing with this excise policy. Oil prices on the world market are at the historically lowest level, and barrel costs 78 dollars. In the Austrian media, we can read that the price of oil derivatives is on a level four years ago, but in Slovenia we have record high prices. This is a question for the government, especially for the Ministry of Finance: Why such a excise policy? Today the price for a litre of oil in Beljak is 1.16 euros and in Slovenia it is 1.34. What could cause Austria to have such a low price for fuel and the world market for oil is 78 dollars? Because every 14 days you raise excise duties. If you had left your excise duties at the same level, the prices of oil derivatives would have been lowered in the last two months. And I want to know what you will do on Monday, whether you will increase excise duties again and the price of oil derivatives in Slovenia will remain on the same level or even become irritable. You can't fill the budget like this. The same story is with alcohol and cigarettes. The second story is interest. Why you missed about 180 million interest payments here, I think you'll have to explain that to the National Assembly. Today, apart from the Minister, none of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance have come forward. I expect certain explanations. I think that the issues have been quite considerable, not only on my part, but also in the debates of other Members and Members. The cost or expenditure on interest in Slovenia will already amount to more than €1.1 billion in 2014. So, more than €1.1 billion at €8.6 billion in revenue. If we are talking about Slovenia's indebtedness to GDP, we are still around 82% on the European average, but the problem with Slovenia is much higher than that of this budget. Your Honor, you said that the higher interest was due to the rehabilitation of the banking system. In Slovenia, we saved the banking system in December 2013, costing taxpayers about EUR 5 billion. Then, as in one year's time, we are again witnessing stress tests and, look at the fraction, we gave 5 billion in December 2013, and again, on these stress tests, two of the biggest systemic banks fall. Your Honored Government, the House of Ministers, I think there is something very wrong here and that you must take some responsibility for these actions. It is very interesting to listen to the presidents of some of the parties of the current coalition when they come in front of the microphone and say, "It is urgent to change the leadership of the bank!" But, look at the following matter, all of these results are not likely to be due to these administrations, but without me defending these administrations, there is probably a lot to change when working but, look, when you have repaired or recapitalized banks – your government has scissors and canvas in hand. This means that the country is 100 % owner of both NLB and Abanks and NKBM, and in the soy of these headlamps you explain, yes, it is necessary to replace bank management, it is necessary to do so and there is no epilogue. It's a show for the public! Your Honor, look, you have 100% ownership today. This means that the Company Act allows you to convene a universal assembly in one day and in one day you can replace both the supervisory board and the entire administration. And don't say anything in front of the public right now. So that we don't go over this budget too far on the banking issues themselves. This debt, which has actually become unsustainable and, I would say, also the consequences of paying interest is of course the question why Slovenia does not use the possibility of borrowing in other institutions that represent or offer substantially more favourable conditions of employment. For example, at the end of 2012, Minister Šuštersič and representative of the European Investment Bank Tone Rop signed a loan draw-out agreement for Slovenia of EUR 600 million. How much of this was pumped? And why wasn't it pumped anymore? Of course, there are significantly more favourable conditions for indebtedness and significantly more favourable interest rates as well as the hand-to-handness of the debt. At the end of this, I suppose there will be something else to report on this debate. The fact is, I would say, the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party in adopting this budget were correct. This means that this budget has been prepared on inadequate assumptions, on inadequate revenues at inadequate expenditure. The fact is that the responsibility here in this particular moment for 2014 is not limited to two parties in this budget, one party that has come to a new parliament, and the Slovenian Democratic Party that has never been in a coalition, all the other parties, but here you have a responsibility for this budget. And this budget brings us back to 200 million euros in higher deficits. That means, Slovenia's going down. Some new policies here are out of the question, the policy of the current coalition has clearly shown itself, that is to say, a policy of borrowing and increasing tax burdens will continue. And once again, here it is only a finding act in this budget, we are at the end of December, this rebalancing will have no impact on the functioning of the country this year, either on the economy or on the social, there is no one else. You have already mentioned many times, this balance would be significantly more meaningful in view of all the natural disasters that have occurred in Slovenia in the last two months to come with these assumptions. Unfortunately, the coalition has made every effort by the Slovenian Democratic Party to increase funds for the operation of the water and the resulting cases negatively, you voted against. And look, I'd say, but the main thing is, of course, just coming, and this is the 2015 budget rebalancing. But here I think you'll have a hard time. I think it is funny to listen to some of the representatives of the Mir Cerar Party who, as a great success, advocate this budget balance, but this is a remarkable success in the 60 days that you have managed to make this balance. And I think there is still a great joy in this coalition's budget for 2015. I expect you to put in a fiscal rule that will no longer be an unconstitutional state. The Slovenian Democratic Party, as a responsible and state-of-the-art party, has introduced the Fiscal Rule Act into the procedure of the National Assembly. When we listen as much as it is to this government and some parties, especially to Mir Cerar's party to the consolidation of public finances, then I expect you to fully support this implementing law. But I don't believe this, because you're saying something, you're doing something else. I do not rule out that in view of all the situation in this coalition, as is currently the case, you do not know how to recruit, that you are actually totally "declared" and that, if not earlier, at the 2015 budget rebalancing, this coalition will fall apart.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Respectable government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! After such a speech, we could interrupt the meeting and go to the vote. I think colleague Marko Pogačnik has said some important things, maybe I'll do one again, maybe add one of his own. On each of the committees, we first met with the word "consolidation of public finances" in order to require a budget rebalancing. But whoever at least opened the first four pages of this budget rebalancing, this general work, can see that total revenue is less than 200 million, and on the fourth page total expenditure is greater than 180 million. Dear representatives of the Government, explain to the Slovenian citizen how to consolidate their domestic finances, and says, "We are in charge, something will have to be done with these family finances, because this situation is unsustainable and this will go further if we do not do something ourselves, but someone else will do something, either the bank or the employer or anyone else." And then they put their heads together and they say, "Well, we'll do something. We will even reduce revenue and, on the other hand, increase the expenditure of our own budget." And that's the consolidation of public finances?Oh, my God! I do not really understand this and indeed ask all those doctors of economic science, both from this left side of the government rooms and especially from the Mir Cerar Party, about Mr Križanič, it is almost a shame to lose words to tell me what this consolidation of public finances is like in practice, "where there is even less landslide". I don't understand it personally. However, I will understand your signal that you support the consolidation of public finances if you support the fiscal rule law, you will solve the problem of fiscal consolidation and the problem that we have because we are currently in an unconstitutional state. However, it is one excuse for this government to do or try to do something about the wrong policy of the former government, especially the wrong fiscal policy of the former government, which may have left us late. But when I read individual budget lines by ministries, the cut, I feel that there is nothing new in view, but unfortunately nothing encouraging. Who loses the most? It's an economic resource. Perhaps expected, maybe not, it will be expected if we finally get the Minister of Economy in the next three months and that Mr Marble will solve the pain a little bit, and he will do something good for the economy, but not that he will give any subsidy to any of his own company or to any of his family members, but that he will do something for the enterprise that he has with this balance and even though you are voicing that you are taking a huge amount of money for a month. He loses entrepreneurship, loses tourism, loses local self-government, especially rural development, you're heavily entangled, loses health care, especially secondary level, loses education, especially in my opinion, a key part of the education system, which is research programmes. For more than a decade, we have been hearing about how education and the economy must be combined and how to get on a common denominator and give young people the opportunity and the economy new incentives. But you're taking it. If these are the 2015 rebalancing settings that you say you are preparing intensively, I am really afraid of what we will have to deal with, but I don't think there will be any success. Otherwise, a colleague from the Mir Cerar Party said what a great success this year or in this rebalancing is in drawing on European funds. We have less than one year to draw on everything that was in the perspective of 2007-2013, and we all know that when you are planning an investment, at the last minute, the biggest supplement is to make it at the implementation level, especially at the financial level. This is a minimum leap in European spending, but we know how much money will remain in the Brussels budget, and it is not a matter for me to boast in all the weights of the government coalition. But there will be something written down. Thus, the magnetograms of all government representatives in the hearings, both coalition members in the National Assembly, and I think that we will have the continuation of the previous government, which has done a completely different thing in the 2015 rebalancing. However, I believe that you will do what the previous government has done, and this is to consolidate public finances with new and new debts. And you're gonna have some other problem, some skeletons will fall out of your closet, banks are still half-open, half-closed. We are all waiting for our banks to be recapitalised, because all those guardians of national interest are holding on to these banks as the greatest wealth we've ever had, and we've put so much weight on them that not only me, but probably my children will have a headache when they have to pay it back. There's talk of a financial secret that doesn't pay current liabilities. That's what's going to happen to you when you're preparing a rebalancing for 2015. There is a judgment pending concerning subordinates, we all know what financial amounts we are talking about, and we all very likely agree that the matter for the state budget will be negative, but it will obviously be easy because as long as we listen to the government representatives. From today's debate, however, I feel particularly about one thing that will be devastating to state finances. This is the continuation of this government's disastrous tax and excise policy, because you have promised little or no concessions in the excise policy, but you will be happy to introduce a new tax or any extension. I must say that my colleagues have been asking me in the last few days when this government will finally impose an air tax when the state finances run out. This is probably one last chance, and then we'll run out of resources for this country. Or it will run out of citizens, because this tax policy, which you will obviously walk with more excise duties, higher taxes, fewer citizens in this country, will be paying taxes gladly in foreign countries, and no tax will be paid by the Slovenian state, and even less by the local community. In short, despite the fact that you're saying it's only one month away, colleagues, I'm warning you, since 1. 8. sitting in this mandate, government, I think it was appointed September 10th, so you had a bad three months this year. What you have failed together in these 60, 70 days is not a achievement, but it has been a very serious warning that if you do not specifically take up arms, you will have a lot of problems with the 2015 rebalancing. But how you deal with problems will also show today's vote on the amendments. In the last 14 days, unfortunately due to natural disasters, we are hearing about floods, in light of yesterday's question by colleague Kustec Lipicer and in response to the Prime Minister's response, I feel that the greatest achievement of this government in the recovery of natural disasters is one Sunday meeting and a visit by government representatives in individual flood areas. In implementing matters, however, you will agree somehow, and of course you do not need the opposition's assistance at all, because you have already rejected on the committee all the amendments that have gone in this direction, and you will probably do the same today without a thorough explanation of the whole thing. Moreover, if you are so concerned about the time, you had the opportunity to change things during the time when the 2014 budget rebalancing came to the National Assembly and to this day or to meet the working body, especially the Finance Committee. But, look at the fraction, I don't know if it's ever happened since I've been monitoring this National Assembly from within for 10 years, so that there's never been any coalition amendment where there's still a matter to drink. And I really hope that this is not a prediction of some policy, of some policy of survival "what will happen will happen." However, I am particularly afraid that you have experts in the government coalition, such as Mr Križanič, who strikes the ZUJF in a vehement manner, but I think that the President of the former Prime Minister, Mrs Alenka Bratusek, without the ZUJF, would not have reached Mr Juncker's cabinet. For it was only with this paper that she boasted about Europe, how they did the eighth thing in Slovenia. And I think this government is also ahead of one challenge, either the ZUJF was good or the ZUJF wasn't good. And apparently he was good. What's more, you'll continue with the ZUJF. At that time, it was said that if there is only something done, we will have the ZUJF for 2013 and 2014, but you are adding new tax burdens and prolonging them to this already existing ZUJF, and we are all waiting for how you will perform the ZUJF 2 or more other legal matters that will burden the economy in such a way or otherwise, and the local community is likely to carry out any citizen or citizen. I am particularly surprised that there is a debate on the ZUJF by Mr Križanič, and we know that both SD and Desus were in the previous government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek. It would be easy, since we all know how to write a law to set up the implementation of the law, we could do so. Even in those 60 days, we could have done it, but no, you're going to keep doing it, and then you're going to talk about how bad the ZUJF is. At the same time, you are predicting higher taxes, higher economic burdens, a virtual battle with the grey economy. Even Mr Križanič allowed himself to say, I must say that I would suggest Mr Križanič for Bob for the years, he said: "Development policy has been running intensely since 2009." The devil's good development policy has been on the table since 2009 and we have a balance ahead of us due to this intense development policy and we will have an even greater challenge when we have a 2015 balance when we face the disastrous consequences of this development policy from 2009 onwards. In short, the distinguished representatives of ministries and respected colleagues, especially those of the coalition species, I really hope that what you have indicated with the 2013 rebalancing means that they are losing entrepreneurship, the economy, local self-government, rural development, health, education, tourism, research so that you will not continue this destructive policy in 2015. Because if you continue with such a policy in the 2015 rebalancing and in all those implementing acts that will be called either ZUJF 2 or otherwise, you will have to learn some new fiscal mathematics to explain to people what you obviously know to explain to them. With this I will end, which I have also started – the consolidation of public finances cannot be such that revenue is falling and expenditure is increasing. This is not called consolidation of public finances in any family budget. I hope that the consolidation of public finances in 2015 will be at least partially reversed. Of this, all those who are now losing will have more, but unfortunately, citizens and citizens. Because if it doesn't work out differently, we're really gonna meet up with some stupid marriage, some stupid tax, and I don't think we can afford it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u38	President, thank you so much for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I must say that I am particularly surprised by the meeting by the former coalition representatives, who today have been in the coalition and have also been in the previous government with their explanations, their explanations of vote and their explanations of views, because they are one who praises how they have done everything in the previous government to ensure that the balance is not achieved, the other what this government should now do, what measures are needed. In fact, everyone has been sitting in the government in recent years. So slowly, some people are just repeating themselves, and they're kind of jumping over this record. Some are a little more innovative and all of us are convinced that we should be particularly proud of raising the economy this year and that tax relief in the economy is the worst thing, that it is the most destructive thing, that smaller taxes mean less inflow and that higher taxes are more infusing into the budget. That development policy has been the best policy ever since 2009. This development policy, dear gentlemen, is reflected in the rebalance, in the increase in deficits, in new commitments. While Mr Križanič is talking about how tax cuts are irrelevant, at the same time, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has a very important title: "Breaking up the budget: These are not healthy solutions!"said that this government is preparing something that will stifle the economy even more. They say here that the new government by increasing taxes on financial insurance services by increasing the repression of the grey economy without reducing the burden of the economy by lower tax rates and by all other pressures on the economy of the soul and that there will be no growth of the real sector and new employment. Today, however, the Prime Minister of the Government has still talked about the strategic shifts, the follow-up to next year, and has announced structural changes. In most cases, we have also listened to the boards by the coalition and also by the ruling SMC party to make technical adjustments and cosmetic adjustments. If we are saying that in the area of education there is a 20% reduction in the balance, then in the area of the labour market and such cosmetic adjustments, then I am worried about what will happen with the rebalance for 2015. For this year's rebalancing also leaves the door open because they have a measure. Several items, which decreased in this year, have been reduced by the following explanation: "The dynamic of payment is transferred to 2015." The Committee's explanations were expressed that, of course, certain projects, investments already under way, contracts signed, decisions signed, and that they would be financed in the following year. Here are a number of investment programmes of projects that are now funded by municipalities themselves. They have already received conclusions in 2013 to finance this in 2014 and are likely to be financed in 2015. I ask how long these dynamics will move from year to year, maybe even two years, as some are waiting for certain payments in their projects. During the presentation of the opinions of some parliamentary groups, we have heard that we must remain a social state. So, of course, the social state is that country, which, by its own fault, cannot survive, must help to survive. The question is whether we have ever been a social state and can then remain a social state. Does this mean that we are giving more money to the social assistance line for families? I don't think so. This item should be drastically reduced, not by reducing contributions to those families who cannot survive, but by reducing the number of families or people in need of social assistance. At that time, we will be able to say that we are a social state when we begin to create new jobs and these assistance will no longer be needed by people. The government in the rebalancing also reduces funds on the line of active employment policy, creating new jobs. After that, I will say very strangely when we say that jobs need to be created and that the Ministry of Labour will do everything to help create new jobs in a different way, not just by raising the economy. There is a decline in the line of protection for unemployed people, to reduce unemployment in the country. Well, 5 % less than in the previous same period was recorded by the Employment Office this year; the figure decreased by 19 %. At the same time, it should be noted that the monetary social assistance line is increasing by as much as 10%. I think these relationships say a lot of things. But I think it is more important that we stop talking about the unemployment rate in the country, and we start talking about the rate of raising the active population. When we talk about the level of the active population, that is, how this rate rises, then the conversations will be completely different, and then we can demonstrate optimism. As we talk about how many unemployed people we have and how unemployment is declining or rising, these conversations take them in a completely different direction. The government is reducing the line at the Ministry of Economy, I think with no action, I don't even know them so far, not in these three months, to do something to raise the economy. I must say that even more, so it reduces this item on the economy by 30%, at the same time without a minister from the beginning. I don't think we're going to need him anymore soon, and no one's going to miss him anymore, because this minister will have nothing left to minister. For the economy is falling so strongly. Today, the Prime Minister of the Government has said that there are many challenges that we must address in a uniform, persistent, patient manner. He added that much change is needed for the better in everyday life, so that citizens will feel it in time. I'd ask him how long it's been since I've been listening to this for three months when the president of the government in the National Assembly talked about this, slow steps, slow moves, people will feel it. Will they also feel this through the projected real estate tax, with new tax burdens or any other measures to raise the economy that we have not heard of so far? Then the rehabilitation of the banking system, which he also talked about, he had to continue. I would also ask him — sorry, he's not here anymore — in what way are the banks being rehabilitated? Is this a new recapitalisation or are we going to read tomorrow about high Christmas in the NLB? And what do we leave behind for the young? As usual, in the rebalancing and in the subsets of new budgets, there is always a decline in those items where the consequences are not visible in the short term and very strong in the long term. And this year's rebalancing reduces the Ministry of Education's line by 20%. And look where we're shrinking. We are reducing on the means to feed students, students and students. The number of pupils in primary schools has increased significantly. At the same time, applications for subsidised nutrition in primary schools have increased significantly. The primary school, an example of 250 pupils somewhere, has more than half of the subsidised diet. And we're lowering that line. At the same time, we are reducing, this has already been said, resources for scientific research, including for young researchers. Does science and research mean anything to us, then? So we are constantly shrinking on those items, which, I will say, are not important, but the development of society itself, the development of the economy is based on science and research activities. We are therefore reducing, if we look at it, the balance, especially in the area of socio-economically weak, in the area of economics and in the area of economic support activities, even if we are speaking in this case, to research activities. Yesterday, the Prime Minister of the Government spoke about this year's floods, about how the Government has responded intensively to all these events with a visit to the field, that the ministers were on the ground, that he was alone in these areas, to see that the change in droughts and floods affects all these problems that are taking place today – it is not difficult to determine, I think, after so many years we have problems in Slovenia with this – and that, of course, all this requires urgent action. At the same time, he expects an action plan somewhere by the end of November. 100 to 200,000 euros will be needed. The question is also here, how much resources are needed and everything needed to remedy the impact of this year's hunger. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed amendments to this balance to move certain items to increase water management resources and waste water management and, of course, to investments for rail infrastructure that have suffered damage to the stomach, but these amendments are not supported by the Government. And this non-support also shows the government's attitude towards these measures and all the responses that Cerar was talking about yesterday. So the measures are just to meet, set up a commission to review, and the financial resources will come once they are. Look, even back then, the government is responsible or the state, I'll say, the Ministry of Drought and the question of when will these areas ever get any help if this doesn't happen now. I think we're still sticking to nice words. Prognosis for gradual action. The pre-election programme, the rebalancing and the overall situation are still reading, therefore, indicating that public debt is increasing, that we owe ourselves, that there will be less and less money for both investments and for the economy, education, culture and social. I think it is time for the Government to give us concrete measures to raise the economy, a clear vision, a developmental objective so that we can start talking about raising the level of the active population in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Urosh Prick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u40	Chairman, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I am an optimist by nature and will try to include some optimism in this brief debate. Of course, I am aware that the situation, economic and social, is not brilliant, is not ideal, is in some ways worrying, but not everything is as black as it may seem and can be seen at first sight. I think I will repeat what I said in the debate when I represented the position of the Desus Group. I think we can be most pleased that the fundamental rights of the most vulnerable target groups have not been reduced in this rebalancing. We are still able to implement the budget in accordance with legal provisions, we are not taking any rights, we are not cutting any rights, because there would be no funds for this in the budget. Of course, it is necessary to know that the material regulations and also some of the laws of the past adopted in the National Assembly have, in some way, reduced rights in some way, I hope and wish, for some transitional period. What you see in the budget is huge numbers at first sight, the Ministry of Labour remains or is reducing funds there, but all those eligible for monetary and social assistance, all those eligible for transfer, will compensate the unemployed, the children's allowance, parental benefits and so on, not to mention, all these transfers will also be paid. It is true, however, that by reducing funds in a global way, we somehow get the feeling that we are squandering on the most endangered target groups. Of course, I believe and I wish that in the future there is some way to establish symbiosis, or if you want to balance all these rights between all the target groups, in some way to build an intergenerational dialogue, solidarity so that no target group will, of course, be deprived of it. I think that much needs to be done to ensure that the economy reaches the point where it will start sharply or start-up levels more and more progressively, so that it will become more and more competitive, because this is a prerequisite for funds to flow into the budget and that this budget, depending on its function and purpose, will also be able to provide funds to those who themselves need these funds for normal social existence, cannot be guaranteed. My personal conviction is that we need to stop slowly – I hope this doesn't sound too illusory – spar and just spar on the spending side. There is also something to be done on the income side and here from words to actions. excise duties, here I agree that the country has not done enough in the past period, and once again all those measures are needed to increase these excise duties and that more resources will be raised in the budget, to this end, to increase or increase the realisation of both tax and other non-tax revenues and, lastly, to increase the frequency or extent of European spending, and to reduce absolutely with all possible measures the grey economy or work in black. Allow me to draw attention to this matter here – as a Member coming from the north-eastern end of Slovenia, specifically from Maribor, I think that here many Members of Parliament will agree with me from the so-called marginal – that there is more to be heard for economic and social, I will call this a deficit or subordinate area at this time. I think that Slovenia will achieve its general prosperity only in such a way that all regions will be evenly represented, but we know that Maribor and its wider environment have already paid the biggest tax of this transition and wider. So, I know that today is the debate on the 2014 budget, I will not go into whether this balance was needed or not, it is before us and it is a fact. And I personally appreciate that it is right that we have done this in some way at the end of the year, at least transparent, if nothing else, because there was no time left and there is no purpose for this rebalancing that is being adopted a month and a half before the end of the financial year, but that we take seriously and without a fig in our pocket the approach to amending the 2015 budget and our words, which are being repeated here by some or by others, and we also translate into real action and thus ensure to all our inhabitants, to all generations a better and decent life – if I can conclude with this – that we will also bring laughter back to their faces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Matthew the Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to some of the points concerning the proposal for a rebalancing. I will focus only on the proposal for a rebalancing and leave behind all the other legal measures that we will discuss, some tomorrow, on others in the coming days. I will also not respond to the claim regarding the increase in the tax burden because this rebalancing does not bring additional tax burdens, but new estimates of possible revenues and new estimates of possible expenditure by the end of this year, given the changed economic circumstances. On the income side, we find in the global that, if we do not take European funds into account, the revenues will be about 20 million less than we planned. This is not, given the uncertain economic situation, a completely uncanny picture. In the past ten years, as I have been in the Ministry of Finance for a long time, we have not yet had an approved budget, which would not have been changed at least once during the execution process due to uncertain economic conditions. And so it is this time. On the expenditure side, it has been explained several times, even today, and since the questions have arisen again, I will repeat myself. On the expenditure side, it was necessary to provide additional expenditure for the payment of interest which was not planned for this year and which stems from an obligation that took place after the 2014 amending budget was confirmed last November. It is further necessary to provide for additional expenditure for the transfer to the pension register, as this year the Slovenian State Holding Act was amended, which states that SDH or KAD will not spend the planned 190 million expenditure this year. We need to replace them with a higher transfer from the state budget. Fortunately, due to better economic circumstances and better income from contributions to the pension fund, not all 190 million will have to be replaced, but some 117 million more will have to be replaced than we planned this year. Finally, additional funds provided to finance compulsory public services on road and rail transport amounting to EUR 76 million must be mentioned. All of these unplanned expenditure amounts to a good 400 million, 417 million, to be exact. However, despite the fact that the revenues are lower and we need to ensure coverage of these 417 million euros, we are increasing the deficit balance by 197 million euros. No one wants this, but the proposed deficit of 215 million is 300 million lower than the deficit achieved in 2013. I still argue that this budget or this budget rebalancing is planned in the direction of gradual consolidation of public finances in the light of the circumstances we are witnessing and in the light of the additional expenditure to be paid, and the consolidation rate is slightly slower than we estimated last year. I cannot agree with the argument that last year's budget was based on the non-reality of data and that enforcement confirmed all the facts cited by individual political parties at the time of adoption of the budget. Let me give you just one example: The corporate income tax, planned at around €430 million by the end of this year, is estimated to be around €450 million. When we advocated last year that EUR 430 million was a real expected income, we were criticized for not having achieved half of it. Already today, the revenue budget for this tax has been realised in the planned amount of revenue. With regard to indebtedness and non-indebtedness to the European Investment Bank, I must stress the following. In the case of the European Investment Bank, the State may be responsible for specific projects, but it cannot be entrusted to the European Investment Bank for the implementation of the budget. Therefore, debt to the European Investment Bank may be an alternative to debt for certain precisely defined investment projects, but it cannot be a general alternative to the other debt required for the implementation of the budget and for the repayment of principals in the past of the leased debt. This year we paid 3 billion and a half old debt and in fact provided funds for the normal liquidity financing of the budget in the following year. At the same time, however, the European Investment Bank's funds have been used to a limited extent in the past, particularly to co-finance Slovenia's participation in European funds. One tranche of these loans amounted to 150 million, the other 120 million, the rest of up to 500 million agreed loans can be used by the end of next year. Why do we not increase resources in the area of natural disasters? To regulate watercourses and all water management activities, we have €70 million in various items after the budget rebalancing. In addition, we have in the special disaster reserve an additional 5 million free resources available for the so-called intervention costs and damage detection costs. These funds are also available for emergency remedial measures in connection with the latest natural disaster or in connection with the latest floods. The Ministry of Environment and Space estimates that emergency interventions into watercourses that can be carried out within 6 months would amount to approximately €11 million, but I do not yet have data on how much of this could be done this year, if there is, in fact, we will support such efforts financially. Why reduce rural development funds? This item also planned funds to draw on the European funds of the agricultural funds for the new financial perspective, which are not realized or cannot be realised. Why the reduction at the Ministry of the Economy? In this case, there are two reasons. The Ministry of the Economy excludes the Development and Cohesion Policy Service from its resources and, as a result, the funds of MGRT are falling so much; on the other hand, funds have been reserved under MGRT for so-called overcommitments or overexpenditures for the old financial perspective that were distributed by ministries during the year. Only 10 million were planned for the new financial perspective, compared to a billion 200 old financial perspectives, this is a very small amount. Part of this has been spent on the operational programme of human resources or food aid at the Ministry of Labour and much remains unused. Since we will not be able to spend it by the end of the year, we have reduced our spending rights here. In short, we have intervened in all areas where it is not realistic to see expenditure realised. We have not reduced our rights anywhere, and I would like to reiterate that. In the interests of accuracy, I would like to mention that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has €1 billion and that their budget is falling by a good 30 million, which is 2% and not 20%, as we have heard in the debate. It is true, however, that for school meals the estimated amount is reduced by 6 million. Last year, the Ministry assessed these funds in excess and again this is a story that I mentioned earlier. It is not about reducing rights, but rather about a more realistic assessment of how much money is actually needed by the end of the year to pay off all commitments. So much for this job, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u43	Is there any other desire for a general discussion? Okay, if you'd like to sign up. Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Jerney Wrote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u44	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, but now the Minister has arrived. Look, it's November 18th, and we're taking a budget rebalancing, we're basically taking a final account. We have one month and a half ahead of us by the end of the year, and this is actually a final bill, it's about so-called cosmetic repairs, nothing else, because at the end of the year the numbers are going to match. However, where items are reduced in one of the very sensitive things whose items are also important in the economy, this is extremely important, where this decreases, it is problematic mainly because of the view or pattern of planning for 2015. You know, this budget for 2014 is the fruit of the wrong economic and financial policy that the previous government has drawn, which is the result of misplanning. It's the whole budget that's wrong. This is what we warned you about in Novi Slovenija – Christian Democrats at the time. Voting on a real estate tax, that's irrelevant. And if it is already an excuse, then the honourable Mrs Bratuškova should have set up the balance of the budget by the time the real estate tax in the Constitutional Court fell. Even then, this property tax deficit should have been covered somehow. The key element of this budget balance is that the deficit is increasing by 200 million euros. Here I have a coin for one euro, 200 million of these coins, and try to count how many of these coins there are, 200 million of these coins are increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, you support this, the government coalition supports this, and without reservation we point out that, in relation to this budget, which I have already said, it is a learning example of how budgets should not be drawn up, how the financial year is not planned. You actually support this deficit with this budget, and this also supports the policy of the former government, unfortunately. In this place, I would like to say two more: the fruit of this wrong economic and financial policy is also reflected in the fact that, for the first time, higher taxes, higher tax burdens, higher excise duties are not the solution, they are not the solution to Slovenia's exit from financial and economic problems. These are not solutions, Mr. Prikl. Another time. Debt is also not the right solution that Slovenia needs right now. Reverse. Slovenia needs tax burdens. The economy is already overloaded. Go to the field, honourable Members of the ruling coalition, and you will see what the economists will tell you. They'll say, "We can't breathe, we're overloaded. We can't pay workers because we have such a tax on wages." When you hear them, you will also say – you know, there is too little sitting in the National Assembly, the Member must also go on the ground – yes, Slovenia is a taxed country. A typical example of wrong planning was also reflected in the previous government with these higher tax burdens. Higher excise duties on motor fuels did not produce the desired effects, even less, we lost a lot here. In fact, if we had a tax or excise duty lower mainly on propulsion fuels, or you know, ladies and gentlemen, the trucks would be tanking here in Slovenia, and now they're tanking in Hungary, traveling to Slovenia, and still tanking in Italy, or either Austria or Croatia, and eventually we'll have less money. If I move on. There are some key problems ahead of you when you plan or when you reduce certain items on the wrong items, your key problems, which will be reflected mainly in the following year, are to pay compensation to the deleted. You've got to turn that on, too. There are quite a few 100 million euros here. Then we move on, the payment of the third quarter of salary imbalances, that's what's waiting for you. Then it is possible to recapitalise some Slovenian banks in the following year. This was the last time that the Public Finance Supervisory Commission said that we are not excluding this possibility, the Governor said. It saddens me, however, that we have also tabled amendments in Novi Slovenije, namely the lowering of the tourism or marketing and promotion of Slovenia. This is a loss of opportunity on the revenue side. When we talk, we don't want to save, and then we need to boost the revenue side. But the revenue side, ladies and gentlemen, is also a new job in tourism. Slovenia is a tourist destination, but we do not know enough to market it. I really don't understand why we talk so much about Slovenia as a tourist destination on the one hand and on the other hand we are squandering funds in the field of tourism. The other thing that matters is infrastructure. This thing doesn't make sense either. In the area of infrastructure, funds are cut mainly in the area of road maintenance. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have guarantees for cars with shorter guarantees than they are abroad. For example, the German car manufacturer who goes to Slovenia gives smaller guarantees because we have such bad, destroyed roads. This is felt by taxpayers and also by the economy, because infrastructure is one of the foundations of economic development, good infrastructure, but we do not have it. It was February's stomach. And what did we do after the acorn? That trains on diesel, and above all from Austria, which they loaned us, drive up and down once a day. Where's the electricity going to be? Why would someone invest in Luca Koper if they didn't have a chance from Luka Koper to successfully take something away? Why? And the second thing I would like to stress is in the budget the explanation: "Something we have done or there has been spent certain funds on the railway route for the second track of Divaca-Koper." I'm asking, what did we do? We've been talking about the second track for 15 years, but we don't do anything. That's why I'm saying, we sell Luka Koper, we sell Slovenian Railways, the country will get some of this, and believe me, the second track will be built in a couple of years if we don't stop them with bureaucratic obstacles like we masters in this. We're masters to complicate, masters of bureaucracy. Another replica of Mr Pikl or I would just like to remind him, because he had an interesting discussion, but see, you said that they are not reducing the sensitive item, but I warn you, this budget is set for next year, for next year this is the budget rebalancing. If I'm not mistaken, you've given in to 19 million Euros for pensioners in the following year. Yes, you are, this is an important and sensitive topic for you, and you have given in. That's it for now. However, I would like to emphasise that, let's increase the revenue side with tax burdens, higher taxes, higher excise duties are not a solution, tax reliefs are a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Horvath, please. I'm sorry, Mr. Prikl's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you. I'll try to be very brief. Comrade Rotovec, I agree with you in a lot of things, but let me understand when I talked about the higher revenue from excise duties and taxes, I didn't talk about higher taxes in any way. I was talking about more efficiency and more successful collection of these taxes. In the newly established so-called FURS, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, I see the possibility that we will actually take a step forward here and it will not be necessary then only on the expenditure side to slice and tighten the belt, but we will bring something and do something also on the revenue side. Of course, I said, and I stand for the fact that there were no cuts in the most sensitive ones, but we know that the most sensitive to me are those budget items where the most vulnerable categories of the population are financed and I have counted them before. The fact that, of course, we kind of landed at the Desus party, that the amount of 40 million for the pensioners' regression had practically halved, that's true, that's a fact. I am sure that, at the expense of a minor regression, which, by the way, was received this year only by those with the lowest pensions and that this is some added value for the pensioners in the following financial year, I am confident that we will greatly improve the material situation of those pensioners with the lowest pensions. Again, it is not a matter of cutting, depriving of rights and of any measure that would lead to greater poverty that is the most vulnerable or one of the most vulnerable target groups. Of course, we have also been so constructive in Desus that knowing that the belt is being tightened and that the funds are being optimized or reduced at some point, however you want us to have, of course, landed here in some way less than we wrote in the coalition contract. We hope, we do not hope, but we are confident that by doing so we will help those target groups that need or depend on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, other representatives of the government! A full debate is under way on the budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. It is quite understandable that this rebalancing will certainly be a basis for next year's budget rebalancing, for 2015, and in this context my debate will also go on. And I believe that many of the well-intentioned ideas here are going into the government's ear, and that the government will take them into account, at least I expect so. Just to refresh the memory, I would like to say that the budgetary documents are one of the most important documents. I just remember, the budget for 2014 – when we adopted it here, I think it was there in mid-November, that's about a year ago, the government of Alenka Bratušek tied its confidant to that budget document. Budget documents are so important. This is not the only case in parliamentary democracy, of course. There's a lot of cases like this. As we said at the time, we said that the budget was not realistically planned. We were right. That's why we have a rebalancing today. In fact, the former government has also been somewhat self-resuscitated. So some logic here is, even though you have to be honest and say the following. In fact, we have almost a full score on the revenue side. If you miss $8,000 601 million for the planned revenue, for only $20 million, I think that's a good two-problem, then we can say that in the context of a statistical error. But the previous government said that income would also be based on a real estate tax that was supposed to be around 200 million. Here's an argument and in a way proof why the revenue side wasn't well planned. I would like to say something, which may seem very philosophical, but one does have a memory of not making mistakes in the future and, of course, not in the present that he has made in the past or that it is more positive that those things that have been lucky to us, which have been good in the past and are meaningful to use in the present and the future, that we are doing so. It therefore surprises me, even at times, that I have often listened to discussions about how brutal tax reform was in the 2004-2008 mandate, when finance, state finances, and the guardian of the state budget, Minister of Finance, unfortunately, was already dead, Dr Andrej Bajuk. Among other things, he received the award of the magazine The Banker, which argued the prize by writing that Dr. Bajuk was responsible for the progress of Slovenia with his commitment to tax caution. I think it's a good property for every financier, and I don't know why some people go back and forth and somehow point to the mistakes that happened at the time. We were then – it was a completely different time, it was a conjunctura – we unloaded the economy, we abolished the tax on paid wages, which was, as you know, a specialty of our country. We had a flat budget, two years, 2007, 2008, roughly flattened, even a surplus, but still somehow, as if the then tax reform and the then tax policy were so badly wrong. It's very difficult. With some pain, I accept such grades. And, dear colleagues, we must be aware that in the recent elections, voters have entrusted us with their vote, in the hope that we will drive Slovenia out of the economic and social crisis by ensuring economic growth and success with sustainable development, creating new jobs, creating social and economic security. People expect high ethical standards from us. They expect us to establish in our country the values of responsibility to ourselves, to fellow humans and to the environment, justice and honesty, freedom, solidarity, that we will restore dignity and hope to people. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we say that the current economic policy must be interrupted. We need a new economic policy. We have recipes, we have enough knowledge from the economy, from academic circles, of course also from politics, we need to create and, of course, also realize a new business model. We have a very difficult task ahead of us, my fellow Members and colleagues. In fact, we need to place the economy on new, long-term sustainable foundations while at the same time carrying out a number of other tasks. Both the principles of sustainable development and the teaching of respectable economists and other experts make it clear that values are the foundation of a fair and successful economy and, of course, of another life. And that the current economic and financial crisis in Slovenia and the world is also due to a crisis of values. It is therefore most wise to immediately adopt and establish the principles of an ethical economy for Slovenia, taking into account the expertise and strategic orientations such as, for example, priorities for social responsibility, the social economy and sustainable development. In particular about some items, maybe no numbers. I find it difficult to accept and hard to understand that the rural development line is shrinking or that it has not been exhausted, and I think it is 14 million euros. For other items, it could certainly be said that the item could not be used to reduce absorption capacity due to administrative obstacles. Now, from the chapter on rural development, agriculture and so on, one example. Some farmer applied for an invitation to tender from the Agency for Agricultural Markets, rural development and so on, received a negative decision saying that his project was rejected because he had already received money for the project and did not even implement the project. Apparently, there was a deliberate error in the letter. And, of course, what's next? The complaint follows, and of course the complaint lasts at least one year because there are not enough lawyers to resolve these complaints and so on. We know how long it takes to deal with complaints from people who have complained about an unfair decision on social benefits from public funds. And now this farmer is also given advice: "Yes, we suggest you sue the country for failure of production." To sue a country means to be in a vacuum — how much? - Five, six years. That is why I say that we must be extremely careful and not do anything to reduce the absorption of money on budget lines through administrative obstacles. It's a shame the secretary responsible for the education left us. All of us who come from some congregations, from school environments and so on, hear many things, and therefore are Members of the people to report on this and try to influence the Government, to correct any mistakes and to implement what is a good solution. The principals of both primary and secondary schools tell me that lately there have been a lot of inspections that come to measure the luminosity of the bodies that come into the firehouse to check this and that, installation etc., that there has been no such thing until now. Of course everything is at first sight fine, but all these inspections are simply to be paid. What's going on now? This money, which we give a nice address here and book for a schooling youth, takes part of the money to make sure I'm more precise, collects a variety of inspections. There's no inspector who wouldn't have found anything small, maybe some shit in the school kitchen or anything. Of course, he was there, he was on a visit, he's writing a record, he's writing a fine, he's writing down measures to do what the institution has to do. And it's all worth it. It is true that things must be done perfectly, but they will never be done absolutely well. There's a little bit of common sense to be used everywhere. There's a lot of talk when I'm talking about the memory, about the very loud ZUJF, about what he did in this society, almost put the country on its knees. This is said by some who formerly led the finances, and by contrast, let me say and go back to Dr. Andre Bajuk, who spoke only good words about the minister he inherited. But today, now it's not a topic. The topic is now ZUJF and ZUJF actually followed Benjamin Franklin's principle, but we don't believe him anymore, he said that only two things are necessary for the general development of society, very simple, savings and entrepreneurship. Now you will say, wait a minute, and Benjamin Franklin is wrong in Slovenia too, because we are a little different. Secondly, because we are also talking about in advance not to make mistakes and what we are particularly afraid of in Novi Slovenija is, as is predicted and I hope that this will not happen, a drastic reduction in resources for local self-government. I don't think this moment in our congregation knows what the so - called chieftain is going to be, whether it's 525 or maybe, God forbid, just 500. I call this the following: if Dr. Gregor Virant, former Minister of State, wanted to delete or delete the municipalities, then we de facto abolish them by this way of financing local self-government. Here, too, I agree with my colleague Uroša Krakl, who warned me, I will use my words, "that we simply do not succeed in this country with coherent regional development". We're both coming from northeast Slovenia. We have taken one step, as the European Union has also acknowledged, and we have aligned with them the fact that we have divided Slovenia into two cohesion regions, into an eastern cohesion region and a more developed Western cohesion region. The European Union Affairs Committee has adopted conclusions twice, interestingly, twice in its previous mandate, to prepare operational programmes for each cohesion region, i.e. two operational programmes. Obviously, this has failed the previous government, but of course it is a key issue. Probably on purpose. If I'm wrong, someone in the previous government will have to explain it to you that I'm wrong. As the fear of the Easterners coming from the Eastern region will now be that we are afraid that in fact money will not move properly into the Eastern cohesion region's projects. Thank God, we will be monitoring the European Union's Committee on Affairs' withdrawal of cohesion funds in the financial perspective, which has been going on for a year. In fact, we have only just received or sent key documents to Brussels, not all of them. And as far as water treatment is concerned, there's a problem here, too. I know the problem when the mayor simply made a decision, he made a good deal with some craftsman who had a bagel, he made a dig, so he removed the mud in the stream, which caused the mayor to have problems with floods in the municipality, and then he got a fine, because he didn't report parts, invitations and so on, despite the fact that it was probably 400 euros. That's why I'm talking about the danger of administrative obstacles that are stifling us. We are simply choked, just as the whole country is suffocating too much debt, that we are somewhere on a strong 80% of the gross social product – the debt of the country. A little back in history, during the time of financial minister Dr. Andre Bajuk, we were in the long state at the bottom of the curve. If we're just going to keep in debt, it's true, money is cheap, you can get it without interest, but we have to pay it back once. That means we have to create this money. Another small thing, I am grateful to some previous government and coalition that it has passed the Law on Development Support to Pomure in this National Assembly. The issues are ongoing, the Government has made a commitment to respect this law until the end of force, which is to say up to and including 2015, so I expect the budget lines to be appropriate. Now we are back to administrative obstacles, and once again, we are back to a practice in life that should not have happened or I hope that it will not be a problem, that it will not be a problem, but it is today. Some contractor was successful on the tender, is now carrying out a project, is building an object, and the deadlines for completing the facility have already expired. The facility's not finished yet. Why isn't it finished? Because the floodwaters watered his site. If the construction site is flooded, you can't work at the construction site. And now it's a problem to sign some kind of an annex to this contract, so that this deadline for the completion of construction works, let's say, moves in two months. And here is the problem and we need to talk about it in Parliament. It may seem ridiculous, but things are very serious. What if he had to, someone said again, wait a minute, you didn't stick to the contract deadlines, and that's why you're gonna have to pay back the money. And what's going to be there? Then there'll be a desert, there'll be a dead object that won't work, just like, say, the Stoice. Now I'm closing at this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u50	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The fact already found today that the 2014 balance is one month before the end of the year. And we are no longer affected by this fact today, but we can very well comment on this fact. Because all the budgetary facts have already been implemented and can be commented very well, both on the positive and on the negative. I would like to focus on the revenue side of the budget. Everyone's more or less, I'd say, in the debates you define about expenditure, but I think it's the first, essential revenue side. Even this year, we have invested huge billions in recapitalisation of banks, a lot of tax money from the budget has been allocated to banks, but the economy that is full of the budget does not see this money. This money we invest in banks does not come to the economy, this money today does not help the economy, this money today does not help the bad companies, because we know what ratings those companies that today get credit must have, extremely good ratings, but those companies that today have extremely good bank ratings do not need credit. That's what they say. It doesn't work. If these strong billions, instead of investing in banks as an example in a company restructuring fund and then directly assisting firms with problems, helping companies with a future perspective, this money would come directly to the economy. So, who's filling the budget? Budget full economy, but we don't know this in Slovenia! That's the whole point of filling the budget. And now if I go a little further. The area of infrastructure. Very clearly and to the far-sighted conduct of the previous Minister, Mr Omerzel, who could not plan his ministerial director for the basic compulsory public economic services. The rebalancing has, of course, corrected this by strong additional means, if the Government did not do so, either bus or rail traffic in Slovenia would have actually remained in effect six months ago. It is very clear from the rebalancing that no new investment has been started in the infrastructure area, even more, and all existing investments in road transport in the Republic of Slovenia have been completely halted this year. Of course, this is the subject of the 2015 budget, because if you take the job from the economy, then the income is not from this heading, neither is the income. But there is no way in this balance that I can accept one fact that we are taking those minimum resources from our minorities, our emigrants, I am talking about a reduction of 150 000 euros. This is unacceptable to me. But no one wonders how much it costs us to move thousands of foreigners to Slovenia for a month, even under the great question of how they will move to Slovenia. And another big question is, with what permission do these immigrants move in? And also with the question of whether it's a work plan or not. That's not a question anyone asks. However, this government is taking away our minorities in neighbouring countries and our emigrants. And that in such amounts that they actually don't have, I would say, has no impact on the budget itself. We're taking away those last euros, and that's, I'd say, taking care of our expatriates, that's taking care of our minorities in place in neighbouring countries. That's unacceptable to me. From this point of view, I cannot support such a rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Katič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u52	Dear Vice President, the distinguished others are present! I agree with the predecessors that this balance is actually already the final account this year. And given that the former Minister of Finance has already locked up the budget in the first half of this year, it is also right that the National Assembly, as an institution that adopts the budget, also decides on the content of the budget, because the content which is before us today is in fact significantly different from that which was confirmed by the National Assembly in its previous composition. And this practice that we Members are actually faced with the fact that, in my view, it is neither desirable nor acceptable. And I believe it won't happen again in the future. I'd warn you about two. I would also touch on collecting existing taxes, contributions, preventing black work. Existing revenue from existing resources could also be increased at the expense of a more efficient part of tax inspectors. At the same time, I don't think the inspectors are doing their job badly. I think that the organisation of their work could take place so that they can perform more effectively. There is certainly also a need to control candle sellers, flowers at 1 November and volcanoers when changing tires at the time of transition to the winter period. In doing so, we must not neglect the more important controls of irregularities in the companies in which we then read, unfortunately, in the newspapers. And these effective tax inspectors can only do so if they are present in the territory they know, and that they can monitor business operations every day and act quickly when they detect possible irregularities and not only are sent from the centre for inspection to a particular company. This was also pointed out by union representatives. And let the Ministry take this into account in organizing the work. I believe that this kind of practice will change as soon as possible. And another area, which also concerns my work in the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, the area of transport. We have the assurance of the Ministry of Infrastructure that resources are provided in the rebalancing, which have been widely discussed in public for the most urgent reconstruction of roads, bridges, so that critical points on state roads, which are pointed out by the municipalities, the population, the economy, will be eliminated. And I believe that now the work on these sections, on these bridges, will run normally, if not at an accelerated rate, so that we do not get over the winter with low temperatures and snow. We also have assurances from the Minister that funds are provided for the continuation of traffic management procedures. In doing so, I am particularly referring to the transport study and the procedures for the implementation of the most important infrastructure facilities in the field of transport. And I can't get past the third development axis. With the principles of coherent regional development of Slovenia, we must all be aware together of the fact that we have certain cities, places, villages actually isolated far away, time, from the capital. And in spite of the current crisis, we must approach the regulation of the modern transport link between these parts of Slovenia and the transport infrastructure with the capital. Also in view of the development of other parts of Slovenia, which lie or have a highway in the immediate vicinity, at the expense of these now neglected areas. Let us be just in this regard, including in the 2015 budget. Coherent economic development not only in the future, but also existing jobs depend on modern transport links. Any investors first ask how far a place is from the highway. And indeed, the charging of the state budget also depends on a successful economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u54	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Today and all week long we are talking about public finances in the Republic of Slovenia. Our citizens and citizens accompany us all the time. Today I would like to draw attention to the interesting events that took place after four months, in this Chamber spoke the President of the Government and the previous President of the Government, of course, both mostly about public finances in the Republic of Slovenia. If I remind you all of you a few months ago, the whole of Slovenia said that we must vote as soon as possible, that Slovenia or the previous government is in charge of not having ministers and that there are urgent elections. These elections took place on 5 July and, of course, today, after a good four months, we find again that Slovenia is in debt and that we do not have all the ministers. I say ourselves that we are irresponsible to Slovenia and to the Slovenes and Slovenes. When we listened to both the President of the Government, the one who is now leading the government, and the previous President, the current President of the Government advocates a rebalancing and the previous President of the Government opposes it. And of course, those who today advocate this rebalancing have also sat in the previous government, here I have in mind the Social Democrat and Desus. And of course, these two parties also nodded the previous government and the president of the government. When Slovenians and Slovenians listen to us today, they're probably confused. Because within four months, we listen to two different opinions. They're confused, but they're mostly concerned. The economy is concerned, the schoolchildren, especially the parents of the children, are concerned. I find it incorrect that within four months, the government failed to find any pipes if I could go to a water pipe that is leaking. I myself have been a Member for four months and, of course, I have detected a lot of institutions in Slovenia that are spending their money headlessly. It is certainly the task of this government to replace these pipes that are running as quickly as possible and, of course, then start to squander on our citizens and citizens. In particular, I should like to conclude with the fear of the mayors of Slovenian municipalities, who, of course, are afraid to think about how to draw up the 2015 budget, because things are not stable, and in particular this fear also refers to all the investments that await us in the future, especially investments in the local community and the development of Slovenia in the future. It seems to me that it would be right and fair for all those who follow us and for the Slovenes and the Slovenes to tell us where we are, what we have to do and where we want to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Podkoršek. The word has magic. Claudius Marquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u56	Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the ministries, dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Today we have heard so much about the rebalancing, about the measures, the changes that it brings, however, let us say here that it is actually a measure that is necessary in the view of the Party of Mir Cerar, precisely because we demonstrate our intention to actually work forward, step by step to stabilise the government, to stabilise the economy of the Republic of Slovenia. With this, we also demonstrate our serious intention to act decisively, as initially stated by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. According to your opposition colleagues, today's time is essentially saved and the 2014 budget rebalancing should not be implemented. However, once again, if we did not do so, the consequences could be even greater. And only from the point of view of our sobriety, do we somehow carry out activities that will also be adopted in the next day. Once again, I stress that it is a matter of correcting the actually unrealistically planned budget of the previous government. In fact, we want to achieve the government's goal of reducing the deficit of the state sector to 4.3% of the gross social product through this rebalancing process, although it is only half a month. Again the number we have heard many times in the past days, but it seems to me that we are not aware enough and that we really need to move towards achieving this goal. I am proud that the balance does not actually bring about some huge structural changes. These are internal transfers without structural changes, without major measures that would interfere with the legal obligations, at the same time without any additional tax and monetary obligations on our citizens and businesses, our economy. However, you must be aware that the budget is actually very rigid. Indeed, as I said on the Committee on Finance, the legal obligations are more than 8.0% imposed on the State by the revenue and expenditure side of our budget. And I think that this is a very large limit, or a very responsible task, that we do not actually have a lot of manoeuvre, but what we do have, but I hope to say that our Ministry of Finance and all of us, too, are looking soberly and responsibly at the changes and measures that we are implementing at this time and which we will also be in the coming months, not at all in the coming years. There's something else I'd like to say. The rebalancing is also important because the main derogations that have arisen from the objectives set to make it necessary are, above all, that we have a loss of income, income on the property tax side, as we have already said today. Unplanned expenditure on borrowing has emerged following the implementation of the 2014 amending budget. We planned transfers too low in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act for the adoption of the new Slovenian State Holding Act. And that's not a negligible information either. Indeed, circumstances have changed with regard to the use of EU funds and we have also planned too low a commitment to finance compulsory economic public services. Once again, however, this is a major time limit, which does not allow structural measures, so the Government is actually carrying out budgetary activities within the framework of the Public Finance Act and the Law on the implementation of the budget, in particular in the direction of the implementation of budgetary objectives and, of course, in the context of the implementation of the necessary legal obligations and, of course, the rationalisation of certain spending segments, particularly in the field of investment and in the field of material costs, taking into account the commitments already made and the current implementation. The essence of all of this is that we are actually consolidating public finances in future times and making a balance sheet to achieve a reduction in public sector deficits. Above all, it is important for us to ensure the stability of our economy, one effective, effective environment, where citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and foreign investors will work successfully, where work will be evaluated and where we can develop our economic, economic abilities. I would also mention that, however, things are not exactly sightseeing, you probably know the latest analysis of Umarje, where we are re-recording the economic growth that is currently being driven mainly by our exports and investments. It means that there are some positive optimistic indicators, but don't expect the impossible within three months, so today we are also deciding on the rebalancing. However, I think that the 2015 budget rebalancing is the one that will be important and the steps that we will take forward, but I firmly believe that we will succeed mainly with efficiency, transparency and measures that we will follow firmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you. We've exhausted the list. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u58	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished finance minister, also a nice greeting from me! Today we have the 2014 budget rebalancing. With great, I must admit, I have been following up on the debate of my colleagues and colleagues, who have also been with us in the previous call of the National Assembly, which discussed parts of the budget items which, of course, had total contradictory discussions, given that a few months ago or when we were adopting the 2014 budget, there were quite some contradictory claims. So I also talked all the time about the adoption of the 2014 budget about some of the things that have proved to be particularly true now that the year of the end is coming. I think that, already today, colleague Pogačnik has talked about the country's optimal excise policy, because there is a financial minister ahead of us, I believe that he also knows very well the excise duties, that he realizes that Slovenia has one specific geostrategic position, that the purchasing power of the Slovenian population has fallen mainly with this economic crisis since 2009, and that we should especially look at foreign purchasing power, especially people who migrate or travel through Slovenia daily, that we must also be aware that the neighbouring country of Croatia has also entered the European Union in the previous budget rejection and that in some way Croatia has begun to exploit the optimal excise policy of the Slovenian State. The loss of €45 million from excise duties is something that we should all do together, at least our observations, somehow raise. I'm talking mainly about fuels, I'm talking about tobacco products. It should be borne in mind that, due to the rise in excise duties in tobacco products, Slovenians and Slovenes have not ceased to smoke less, I can say that they have somehow approached substitutes, particularly small-scale tobacco, but that foreigners have mainly withdrawn, foreigners have stopped buying cheaper versions of cigarettes, cheaper brands, i.e. those who have crossed the magic or psychological limit of EUR 3 per pack of cigarettes. Finally, we have lost more than a million euros in alcohol products. EUR 45 million is not the final number where the exit is. You must be aware that this has also resulted in a drop in value added tax of EUR 45 million, including that of 22%. If we are aware that someone who did not stop at a gas station when travelling through Slovenia, or in a duty free shop, or also at a gas station where he was buying tobacco products, we should be aware that, when he stopped there, he might buy some other consumer goods, and that if we consider this multiplier factor, if we still have VAT, this drop could be, at least on my scale, somewhere between 70 and 100 million euros. This is what the Government could react to at one of its correspondence meetings – as we know – by changing excise duties under the law to 50%. I can say that the Austrians have at least the border belt that accounts for excise duties a little differently, it adapts daily. See, Slovenia has lost this confidence of some, this psychological story that Slovenia is an extremely favourable country for the purchase of fuel, that is, for this gas tourism, tobacco tourism and so on. That's too bad. It is, we can say, extremely cheap money that could be put into the budget. And in this case, given the geostrategic position, in all financial circumstances, especially with the loss, I can say that the purchasing power of the Slovenes and the Slovenians means less. I hope that we have found that the indicators show this and that the Government or the Ministry of Finance will have to approach excise duties slightly differently. The problem with excise duties is that the customers we lost, who were traditional buyers of these products, even by reducing excise duties overnight, we will not gain them back. That's the problem, too. It's a long run. I can say, with regard to the claims made by some politicians at the local level to reduce unemployment, see, this is not going overnight. We can also most benefit from optimal excise duties, take advantage of this potential that we have, this very good geostrategic position, and try to raise at least part of the revenue from excise duties and thus reduce the loss. I believe that a special group of experts should be set up with the Minister of Finance to analyse in detail what has led to this failure, what are the possible solutions, and in the shortest possible time, to try to make up for this failure somehow. Let me say that this loss of excise duty is best known in the border areas. The border areas are Slovenia's Stajerska, Kočevsko, Koroška region, also part of Primorska. So these are areas that are extremely deprived, which have the most unemployed, where every job loss, including in the area of trade, including petrol services, can be said to have less traffic – all of this is known in the most deprived areas of Slovenia. Ljubljana with its surroundings does not feel this way because some Slovenian buyer will still be shopping in the middle of Ljubljana. In Styria, many Slovenes and Slovenes go across the border. We are further talking about the second level of income, which is what is called VAT hikes, which may have brought something more into the budget at least in the first stage. But you must be aware that we have lost a whole range of buyers back in these border areas where people choose to shop across borders. We knew this policy when the former Yugoslav country broke out when we walked for most of the needs, including for households, across the border. Is that what we need? Have we not learned anything from this history, from precisely such macroeconomic policies? Well, history is coming back to us, at least in this area. However, by establishing the Slovenian state, at least in this area we have taken a step forward. Next problem. I looked above all at a trade activity that had plummeted tremendously. If we look again at the border areas of Slovenia bordering on neighbouring Croatia, the Styria part, the coastal part, the Cororian part bordering Austria, we can also see that the conversion coefficient in stores is extremely poor. So, the decline in the trade sector, in particular the decline of foreign buyers in these stores due to VAT hikes. We have a whole series of downsizing activities, and that's the problem with losing for a long time. We may not have seen this loss in this year's budget, but we will also be losing it here in 2015. I am simply pointing out this because I can say that I have been studying these things for some time and that we can see that I believe and hope that I am wrong, unfortunately all my claims have proved correct in the previous year. The second is the macro-economic broader environment around us, so we are currently talking about economic growth, the UMAR is forecasting about 2% of economic growth this year, the second is no longer so optimistic, somehow predicting 1.6% of Slovenia's economic growth according to recent indicators. I think that the UMAR is already concerned that our second biggest trading partner Italy is also coming into recession, that economic growth in Germany will also somehow get scared, that somehow I can say it will cool down and that we can expect worse results with regard to Slovenian exports. Most of the time, the Germans protect their subcontractors from top or major manufacturing workshops or international companies, and most of the time they reduce orders to our subcontractors in certain industries. Therefore, even the revenue of the budget, if we do not begin to conquer other markets with our products, services, it appears that the revenue of the budget will be reduced in the following year. That's why I warn you, I always warn you half a year in advance, a year in advance. All of this can have significant consequences for a serious, stable financial environment. I am aware that the Minister is aware that he must somehow meet these Maastricht criteria and that the budget is somehow trying to compensate in the coming years. In this way, without serious structural reforms, I do not see any real consolidation of public finances. One of her colleagues said earlier that she was pleased that there had been no serious structural shifts, and that saddened me. It saddens me that if I also look at certain items in the balance sheet of the budget, for example, the promotion of initial and new investments of 9 million 206 thousand minus 74 thousand euros. For example, tourism development support, 56 million 671 minus 16 million, 39 million we have on this budget item, that's a thousand 405. All of this suggests that Slovenia wants and wants to continue with this policy of the former government, where those who have been the best in this country who have done the most rational work are best to be punished further. All those budget consumers who spend resources that we don't even know why they exist are further rewarded. All of this leads to young people and the most entrepreneurial moving businesses outside of this country, making the Slovenian business environment even more uncompetitive, despite the fact that we are aware that purchasing power is primarily the Slovenians and Slovenk own capital, that we need foreign investment. All of this points to extreme non-competitiveness in several areas. And I'm afraid if we take a look at our commitment to grow exponentially, that after the end of 2008, when we were charged with 22% of Slovenian national product, today to more than 80%, that's terrible data in such a short time. This is scary information, and it shows that literally the prisoners we've been spiraling debt, we're like drug addicts who need an ever-increasing dose. And that is what is scary for Slovenia, and above all that Slovenia will continue to want to maintain a serious social state with all the institutions that are urgently needed in the future. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I hope and I wish that this budget balance is not some draft budget in 2015, that these items will be different, that the Government will really approach structural reforms, indeed that the consolidation of public finances is the first. If this does not happen, it is likely that the premiums on Slovenia's five and ten-year bonds will increase again next year. The outsider is watching us. It observes our environment, observes that Slovenia does nothing to avoid the rule of the pact sunt servand, the agreement has to be respected and that the Slovenian policy, including the current one, is not decisive. The essence of the government is governance, delegation of tasks, the essence of the government is to decide that we will sometimes bite a single sour apple, so that we will sometimes cut some money off some of our elective bodies. We have done this in another Janša government, and today I may regret some things, that we have taken, say, at least in the first phase also veterans who may have always earned it, and that we have somehow tried to save that one billion that we and the ZUJF have somehow saved, that we have tried to reduce this public debt in the shortest possible time. Of course, this other Janša government, if it still existed, would go to a second stage safely in serious structural reforms. I believe that today Slovenia would be on a different path. It would be a serious serious rise in economic growth, not this imaginary one. I can say that this apparent rise in economic growth is the result of an environment that has made certain reforms, an environment that we are partners in, where we work for different multinational companies. This is not the result of our policy, but at least of our economic policy. I must admit that it is also symbolic that, when a candidate for an economic minister has reviewed these items, for the first time, that the economic ministry is reduced for European funds, that the economic ministry is also reduced for the energy sector, which has thus been transferred to infrastructure, the economic minister is, in fact, also in terms of the 2014 budget rebalancing, we can say, a toothless tiger. And I believe that even the state of health of the candidate for the Minister of Economic Affairs, when he looked at it, at least a few of these items, had deteriorated further. Therefore, honourable representatives of the Government, I hope that at least part of my debate will be heard at least in the 2015 draft budget and that some of the mistakes you have made for 2014 will correct that, above all, the Finance Minister will be aware that he will pressure his other colleagues in the government to take serious structural reforms seriously. If not, we are ahead of a serious and deep economic crisis in the Republic of Slovenia in the following year or in the second half of the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm sure and I agree with those who said today that this rebalancing is another blow to the weakest. That's a fact beyond which it's impossible. I am also personally convinced that if this government and all the structures in this country that are responsible would bring back the money that was stolen in Slovenia back to this country, they would not need such a balance in this country. And what has been done so far in this area? Absolutely nothing. They lock someone up for two, three months, release him, but where are the millions stolen? Ask most Slovenian people what they think about this issue. He expects every government and every responsible institution in this country to bring billions of stolen money back into our budget. And if we bring this money from the oasis into our budget, I assure you that this country will not need to, it will not have to hit the weakest, it will not have to hit the pensioners and so on and so on. Huge billions, huge billions were stolen from banks. What happened in this area at that time? What, I'm asking you. And I ask you very much that you, who you are and we are responsible for this situation in this country, will act immediately, at this moment, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, we should act yesterday, not say that this government is only two and a half months. When were the elections? And today is half a year from when the national elections were held. And what was done in this area? Nothing and nothing. And the Slovenian people, the people who are sitting and working for us who are sitting here, expect us to change certain things in this area and really all of us to work together to get the money stolen from banks back into our budget so that the pensioners don't live with 400, 300 and 500 euros, but they can live as normal as people, not as, in sayings, slaves who you give them just enough to not die. Pig shit on a cubicle! That's what we do with our people. That is how We treat them. Finally, every so many months and so many months, we ask for their vote to come to this Parliament. I can't help but avoid what Erjavec said before the elections. I can't because this has something to do with this story. When he said he was going to make 40 million money to make sure that all pensioners got regressed. What happened now? Not even a third or maybe just over a third of the time, and again, most of them will lose their regression. These are fake pigs and seductions before the elections, thus gaining a voice is a mess and a disgrace. It is right and fair and responsible that even when we go to an election campaign, we tell people what lies ahead, what we can do, and what we do not intend to do. And it turned out again that the leading people of Desus were misleading, pensioners and pensioners. So when I talk about the re-attack on the weakest, I will now also refer to the fact that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has lost 91 million euros with this balance. They lost people with disabilities, lost those who need them when they lose their jobs, lost those for whom an active employment policy has to be implemented everywhere for several million. And today I have heard here the data that I have already mentioned on the Labour Committee, the family, that unemployment is falling in our country. Yeah, how can people say something like that around here, but if we have a document here that says something else. I'll just read you one sentence. This document states, "In the first ten months of this year, an average of 120 000 644 unemployed persons were registered at the institution on average, which is 1% higher than in the comparable period in 2013". If someone has not read this, I would ask that you read this to those who are discussing it in this House, at least the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the family. And for this government, apparently, 120 thousand unemployed are no problem at all. It's not a problem at all! You think that's normal. On the other hand, if we look at the real sector that works for the whole state, the public sector has 600,000 people who are employed in the real sector and work for the whole public and state sector and so on. And today we already have a ratio of 1:1.36, one pensioner and one employee in the real sector. And this government is no problem. This government is no problem! And, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as we begin to think in this direction that structural reforms need to start, that we need to start investing in the economy, in new jobs with a higher added value, we will be turning around in a vicious circle for so long. And we can do a rebalancing if we just borrow money to solve the country's financial problems with borrowed money and there is no domestic accumulation. The money could and could only be borrowed if it was available, so if our interests were clear to return to the economy, to the infrastructure, and all that is needed, which will then bring the money back over a certain period of time. In this case, yeah, borrowing money. No, in this case, what we do is we go around in circles. More and more indebted, more and more interest, less and less money to economic operators, more and more bank holes. I hear again, every day, that the Bank of Ljubljana will have to recapitalise, New KBM will recapitalise Yes, by God, please, how long do you imagine that this country will be able to function? [[…]] How long? And if no one hears that in this National Assembly, then I don't know where I'm sitting. Or do you not go among your people and ask what they think? Let me ask you, please imagine, this isn't about the opposition, it's not about the coalition, it's about the interest of a nation that is above all of our interests. And I can't afford to be the next one without knowing how many years I've been sitting in the National Assembly just to listen to what I hear every day. That there's no problem in owing ourselves so that we can still get so far in debt and so on and so forth. Instead of thinking about how to solve this problem, ten generations behind us will not pay this debt that we have made so far. You should think about it, it is our duty to think! The generations that follow us are not to blame for what we are doing today, and we have no right to do it, none. Therefore, dearly all those who sit in this House, the Government and all those who owe us, we are obliged to make sure that my people, our people together will live better and better in the future. We are obliged to ensure that we reach those who have stolen this money and bring it back — I will say it again and I will say it five times if necessary — back to the budget. And there will be no need to take on socially disadvantaged, those groups that are struggling to survive today. And we will not again, with every balance, continue to attack the socially most vulnerable with each budget. We won't, and we can't do this! We have options, we have a way, but let's do it together. I told the Labour and Family Committee for the last time, and I say it again. For 24 hours, let's close the Parliament. [[…]] And I'm not saying coalition, opposition, and so on, let's make a deal and do this, because we're doing this for our people, for every voice, no matter who got it, from which party. [[…]] And if we think about it that way, I am sure that Slovenia can come out of this financial and economic crisis in a relatively short time. And I'm asking you nicely not to hear it by chance after I leave Parliament, demagogia, it's demagogy. It's not, it's the truth, it's a fact, it's the results of our work so far. And it is right, even though in the past we have done something wrong to admit it and seek solutions that are better than those that have been adopted so far. And if we think in this direction and do not deal with what I have been listening to Mrs. Bratuškov today - how was she not embarrassed to come in front of this stage, before this stage and here to address Members and Members, after all that she has done for this country? How do you hope, what kind of face does such a person have to have? I tell you, I was sick when I looked at her, I was sick, and most of the Slovenian people, I'm sure. That people have no conscience, no responsibility, that they simply care to see only and exclusively personal interest and so on and so forth. This is unacceptable, irresponsible to our citizens and citizens. And I am sure that we owe this path to change, and I believe that there is something here in this National Assembly that we are thinking as I have discussed today. And I believe that there will come a time when we can connect and cross these two steps maybe this step will make it possible for this Slovenian nation to live once in the future, just as we wanted when we conquered Slovenia in 1991. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you. First of all, Mr Primož Hainz wishes procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u62	No, no, I'd be a little controversial, of course. Mr. Pojbič, it's nice to operate with data only. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u63	That's not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u64	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u65	But you can't have a replica yet because you haven't discussed it yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u66	But I'm responding to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u67	I propose that only three debaters are still to report on the debate. Thank you. Government representative Dejan Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Maybe for a while. It is necessary to respond to some of the data that have just been presented in the debate. It seems to me that when we debate, we are also talking about the real data that is in force today. It is true that unemployment in Slovenia is still high, but it is much lower than when this team came, which is currently headed by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. This information, which you have just quoted from the comparison in 2013, may have been misread. Today, the data of 16.11 is up to date. This Decision Mr Pojbič, specific information by the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The key to this is [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much, but you will see clearly that today the number of unemployed is 115 thousand, not 120 thousand, as you said, but last year there were 120 thousand unemployed, and that's true. When we took over the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, 130 000 were unemployed, in 2013 we reduced the number of unemployed to 120 000, today the number of unemployed to 115 000. It is still very high, as I said, but the measures we are taking are favourable, welcome, we are talking to employers and we are taking those measures that ultimately bring long-term jobs. So the information you've been citing doesn't hold. It's like the second time. You talked about 1% compared to 2013 that unemployment had increased. Wrong. By 1% there was an increase in the labour force; in 2013, we had 792 thousand working people in the Republic of Slovenia; today we have 801 thousand. This is important information for us all when we talk about reducing unemployment. It has always been obvious that we are removing people from the register, i.e. those who are unemployed, we are now looking at the number of working people, and this number of 9,000 working more active than in 2013, is an important information for us when we talk about who actually got the job and who didn't. If we move on to the items of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the 2014 budget was $562 million. We are not reducing this by 91 million in the balance, but we are determining the actual situation of the funds used on certain items. And if you'll allow me, I'd just go through the biggest if it wasn't for the State Council today to feel like we're taking anyone. Far from it. I will prove to you in the sections that we have taken enough with the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources and with Zujf in the past. And when we as a ministry negotiated on the government's budget what we're going to do on this segment, we haven't allowed anything to interfere with social transfers. When we look at the picture of what is happening to us in Slovenia, even in the data of poverty and other things, I think that we can be clear enough for everyone in this room to reach this place no longer. The maximum share of the reduction occurs on the labour market and working conditions, i.e. on unemployment benefits. This is because we planned more resources than we actually needed because the number of unemployed has dropped by a few thousand. This means that we have more than 48 million left on our allowance. If you subtract these 48 from these 91s, you are already drastically lowering these funds, which you said we deprived individual people in Slovenia. We haven't deprived them, we don't need this money for unemployment benefits anymore, because these people have got a job, so we can get that money back into the budget. Then we have the next item of the Employment Initiative. There's four million 400 thousand left. That's what she was talking about. I think the United Left, too, before there was a minister sitting in this place. We're talking about public works, that part of the money that wasn't spent by the municipalities to finance public workers, if you know, we sat in the National Assembly here a year ago because we increased the number of public workers once, i.e. from 4 000 to 9 000, just to provide the long-term unemployed with at least one job option, integration into the system. However, since the municipalities failed to ensure their co-financing share, that is 15 and 25%, and thus we have not spent as much public works as we have anticipated, we are left with 4 million 400 on this item. We have also returned this part to the budget, hoping that in the coming year we will also get an understanding from the Ministry of Finance that public works are one of the segments, the latter, in the active employment policy, which allows those who are long-term unemployed to be included in the system. Then you also need to see some light matter of this balance or budget because you know that throughout the year the items changed because the funds were transferred from one item to another. Where there were fewer needs, we took the money and put it where there was a little more of these needs. And these are certainly the incentives of employers to create new jobs and employment for more difficult people. In this place we added 3 million and a half extra funds to the Employment.me program, if you remember it. This was greatly appreciated by employers in the field, for it actually enabled them to actually employ some kind of subsidy. Our aim is to encourage such programmes, which deliver concrete results, also in the future. 5 million is missing or the reduction in the guarantee and maintenance fund is only because the fund ensures that the money to guarantee the right of those who are entitled to this right will be sufficient. Then we have the item Training and education for employment. We've spent an extra million 200 grand on this item. However, it is specifically a job test. This has been widely used by employers. This measure then became a workplace training measure. Even today, there is a huge involvement in this account, because employers can test a person directly in the workplace before they hire him, and this is in some ways crucial for all those who talk about flexibility, to see first whether a person is suitable for a job and then the employer can also find out through such a measure. Then there is a reduction in student food subsidies by one million resources, which brought the measure one month less use of student vouchers on summer holidays and a slightly smaller number of students and students. That's why there's a difference. 20 million, Mr Pojbič, there is a difference in scholarships, but not because they would reduce the number of scholarships, but because we transferred these funds from the budget fund to which funds are raised and from concessions, we transferred them back to the ministry. At the same time, this 20 million has been able to relax and we have put them back in the budget. In fact, we have helped to save money where we can at some point. At the expense of these 91 million at the Ministry of Labour and General, that is, for all those who are attached to our Ministry, they have not lost their rights. It is true, however, that at the level of social transfers, such as child allowances and parental allowances, we must all look into the box when we talk about two laws: the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on the Balance of Public Finances. These two laws definitely reached into the middle generation, in the middle layer, into families in the field of child supplementation, when we talked about the abolition of certain top grades of the child supplement, when we talked about the height of the censorship, who can come in to gain the right to an extra child. Mr Pojbič, these are the measures that have been taken both at the time, if we are honest, of the Pahors and of the Yangsze governments, so that in some ways some of the things have stabilised according to some information. It is, however, a fact that today, a budget such as that, or that balance, is only a reflection of the actual situation. It will then be very important to rebalance the 2015 budget when we sit here in the National Assembly and see what we can do to ensure that the social security of citizens and citizens does not continue to suffer. Nothing but that when we are talking about specific numbers, I would like this to be clearly reasoned. The fact is, and today you can also check this information in the meantime, and I will be happy to stay here with you to the end. Today, there are 115 000 unemployed, we have already been at 112 000, but every October we arrive at the completion of some new unemployment education at the Employment Service. At the moment, the Ministry is actively preparing new measures. Unfortunately, I must say or fortunately, as someone does, there are many of these measures encouraged by the various subsidies that employers prefer to take this moment, because this is some kind of help to them, and I want to grow much more because it brings jobs in the long run. Our results, however, indicate that at least part of what we have experienced has been mitigated in all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr Levanič, for these clarifications. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot support the 2014 budget. I can't support him alone, we can't support him in the United Left, in her parliamentary group. In his address, Luke’s companion, the moon, said why. In this debate, however, I would like to stay with the two most important social subsystems, education and health, and how this budget deals with them. Health care. The health sector of this budget rebalance leaves a lot of bleeding. About 10% of the total budget, or some ten million euros, is being removed from health care. The left share of these funds is derived from the public investment item. I would like to reiterate, as we have often said on the committees this week, that the very public investment that has driven development has driven the progress and drivers of the economic growth we have witnessed this year. Public investment and nothing else. This shows that this would also be an appropriate approach to solving the crisis, to the economic recovery of our country. At the same time, we are also dealing with policies that predict belt tightening, with austerity policies that we have seen in recent years, and we know what they are doing. The Public Finance Balance Act was often on the ground today, and it is right for us to stick with it. This law did little to trigger the second recession in 2012. The Ministry of Health states that cuts in their budget for technical adjustments are a matter of delays in planning and so on, in short, of a purely technical, cosmetic operation. I believe, frankly, that the implementation of these items was not possible for some technical reasons, that there was simply a retention on this project, on that project and that these funds simply could not be realised. But things get complicated at this point. As technical adjustments are concerned, these funds are expected to return in 2015 with the 2015 budget or the 2015 budget rebalancing. I have no doubt that, in her efforts and wishes, the Minister is sincere that she really wants to regulate this area and that she lives in the belief that these funds will come back. Unfortunately, in this belief, godly desires also end if we put them in some context, within a framework that we have been able to experience in the last two months, it is said by the performance of the current government. The fact is that the government is predicting an even greater tightening of belts, even more austerity measures, what we have already seen does not produce results. And the fact is, the Ministry of Health has not redistributed funds on the inside. True, it has cut off some items that are supposed to be unrealised for technical reasons, but, these funds did not remain within the Ministry, these funds went out. The ministry gave up these ten million short notice. If these two factors, the fact that these ten million have gone from the budget of the Ministry of Health, are combined with all the forecasts of the savings budget that we are looking forward to in 2015, it is said that the vast majority of citizens and citizens are bloody black and bloody infectious. The story of education and education is similar to that of the previous. Nor does it need to be discussed in detail, but it is enough to say that we are again in a shrinking situation, but that this time the number is 30.6 million euros. Again, the reasons why this contraction is taking place, of a technical and bureaucratic nature, and again the correction is due to follow in the coming financial year. I believe in the sincere purposes of both ministers, but sincere intentions do not outweigh the stubbornness of the budget butcher we know under the name of Dušan Maramor. For the time being, the burden of the crisis will continue to fall on the shoulders of the poor and on the wages of the middle layer. Regardless of the prudence and importance of health and education for the welfare of citizens, we have absolutely no assurance that the government, as a whole and as a finance minister, especially recognizes this need. If anything, we can hear and read diametrically opposite positions. The Ministry of Finance in this government is not the place to drive investment, development and progress as it should, but it is the space it is planning, planning and, as it seems, it will be successful in making its way to the third recession. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. I also look at this balance or this balance more from the point of view of the facts already implemented than some logical consequence of our country's operation this year. We have not adopted structural reforms, and some such structural shifts in this budget rebalancing have not been expected. In fact, it is a matter of correcting pre-optimistic planning, unrealistic planning or adjustments that have followed some of the changed circumstances that we may not have had an impact on ourselves, and also those circumstances that have arisen since the adopted budget in 2014. On the other hand, the result of the unreformed reforms means a higher debt, and this is some substantive shift in this balance, because we are increasing the current balance deficit, says we are spending 200 million more than we create. That's why I don't see this balance as a success story either. In this rebalancing, in particular, I see the Government's duty to inform the National Assembly, what transfers of funds or what happened by the implementation of the budget on items already confirmed by the National Assembly during the year, and to inform us of all these changes, and to give us the reasons why these adjustments have taken place, although I believe that the measures provided for by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget would probably carry out the whole budget without this balance. But as I said, I think we were well aware of this, especially in order to see what we need to expect from the 2015 budget rebalancing. Despite what has been said here today is critical at the expense of the implementation of the budget, I could point out only two things, which point to some event or normalisation or some impact on higher economic growth or normalisation of the situation, in particular this structural shift in spending. We will spend €1 billion 200 on investments this year, which is 44% more than last year. Moreover, the use of European funds indicates this upward trend, and I would also like to see these projects actually financed from the European Investment Bank, which offers more favourable credit conditions. However, we currently see that the current implementation of the budget is primarily intended to cover our higher spending on what we create, and in particular, what is not good, the coverage of the principals from the credits already hired. I would not repeat anything more about the rebalancing itself, but I would say that we have gained some insight into the fiscal framework of the country and the basis for the preparation of the rebalancing of 2015. If we want to achieve the goal that Mr Minister has already reiterated today that we want to bring the deficit from 4.3% of GDP to 2.8%, we will not be able to make it on both the expenditure side and the revenue side without root measures. Indeed, the revenue side is not to ignore these measures, or these efforts to make them more efficient, to collect public taxes, taxes and so on, and indeed on the expenditure side this balance of public finances, which we have already mentioned several times, to encourage the economy, to promote competitiveness, to remedy the banking system, all of these measures that have to be achieved in the 2015 budget rebalancing, or we will not achieve the objectives. This is not the case, however, that we need to achieve the objectives for which we have committed ourselves to the European Union, especially in this area of our own action, because with this increased debt and the increase in interest amounts, we are likely to be unable to function in this way for a long time. Not because of Europe, but because of us, these measures will be for us. Above all, here our general public will have to understand from several areas that without this we will probably not be able to implement the budget balance and further budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have to warn here, or even better say, to protest that in the National Assembly, once again, there are statements that do not belong in the National Assembly. Yesterday I had a brief discussion with the Minister of Social Affairs and equal opportunities where she confirmed that the Government had found that this was a serious problem of discrimination. I also see that you have not even noticed that there is a racist speech here, or that if I am professionally accurate, violent racism, but renouncing, cold or new racism, I would say professionally. What do I mean? Ambassador Žnidar spoke about the reduction of money for Slovenians around the world and Slovenians in exchange, which I personally agree with, but I do not agree with the continuation of his statement: "No one wonders how much it costs to move thousands of foreigners to Slovenia for a month, but on a big question of how they will move to Slovenia. And another big question is, with what permission do these immigrants move in, and also with the question of whether it's a work plan or not, and no one asks." This part of the statement has nothing to do with the balance we're talking about. I was interrupted several times on the boards when I got a little out of the basics. This is purely common, professionally speaking, cold rejection racism, which brings blame on someone who is innocent. And we need to be aware of that in the National Assembly. This is also one argument to accept tomorrow, when we vote, what I have proposed about a body dealing with discrimination or not with discrimination, which shows that even the National Assembly does not manage it, how other people can then manage it. In the end, we won't talk much. I'd like to ask those of you who think so. Would there be any Slovenian around the world if in those countries where the Slovenians moved to either a better life or because they were killed or imprisoned here or whatever, if they behaved the same way, "what do they do, see how much it costs us because some people move in here"? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you for that warning. Mr. Žnidar, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u76	Dear colleague Hanžek, I believe that you have not listened to me properly or perhaps you have not understood me in my debate, and I will explain briefly that there will be no misunderstanding. We were talking about the budget rebalancing. And in the balance, we also have considerable resources for social transfers. I believe that we have not done everything we can in Slovenia to ensure that the unemployed who are in Slovenia are able to minimise these costs and that these domestic professional staff and those who do not have jobs are able to work. Here I asked myself what it was like to issue these work permits, given that we have certain deficient professions that we are talking about as well as staff at home. I'm not talking about any racism, I'm just talking about the costs of this social transfer, so there's not gonna be any misunderstanding. And I believe that we are not optimal here in Slovenia in this balance of needs and surpluses. I think we need to do more here. So much for a brief explanation that you'll understand me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you. Now we've exhausted the list. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Yeah. Please check the voting devices, so it'll all work out because we found out that one probably didn't work before. I'm starting my application. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! What I wanted to tell Mr Pojbic earlier is a very simple fact that DeSUS and DeSUS alone defended those pensioners who have €622 in pension to receive the regress. What was the question, 19 million or 40 promised then 19 realized, is, of course, what the pensioners will get. This is about the fact that the facts are slightly different, as Mr Pojbič has shown. But the fact is that DeSUS has landed in half for a simple reason, that we are also helping the situation as it is with our salaries, and I think this is also justified. The second thing I would say is, even somewhat possibly controversial, see, 13 July was the election, 18 September we received a mandate, and today I have been listening all day to how I am to blame for the costs that will be incurred because of the non-residential property tax, and I want to say that in these discussions we should be a little correct, that in some situations we are in a new composition, and it would be good to take this into account in our debates, that we are talking about the 2014 rebalancing, which is virtually already over, which some of you have also pointed out. I would also ask that you do not use the term "rebalancing debate for 2015 will be a joy". I think it'll be hard work, it won't be fun, because the times are too serious to play with these expressions. However, I am also to some extent an optimist, like my colleague Prikl, but I think that life does not stop at some point, I think we will also get out of this situation. With what Mr Horvath has said, of course, I fully agree. People need to be restored to dignity, and the password with which DeSUS went to the elections and also succeeded in the elections. Dignity in the sense that most people or as many as possible should be restored to dignity, which means that they have a life worth living. And in this sense, we strive to participate in the debates in the National Assembly. I also agree with those who claim or claim that more should be done on the revenue side of the budget. I'm kind of embarrassed here. As far as the banking system is concerned, we recapitalise banks and then there are no results. The economy can't see this money, the banks are stockpiling up some gold reserve when we see that they don't have any problems. On the question of whether it will be necessary to recapitalise, they say they do not need funds, which means that we have overcapitalised them. So in this area, perhaps the government should do something or all together. It also raises the issue of the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia. Indeed, we need to know that the Slovenians have given much of their independence to Europe, the European Union. And here the question is, what are all these bodies doing down here and how many of these autonomys, where we use it or where we don't use it, and we could rationalize at this point. As far as tax havens are concerned. Of course, at first sight it seems like a huge amount of money that has gone abroad, there and there the Slovenians obviously participate well. However, with many, it is a puffed-up balloon because these incomes were based on a loan that did not have proper adequacy back then. But if we want to get something out of tax havens, then in my opinion, for example, we should say return the money – if we're talking about a tycoon story now – give back the money, 30% of that money, we'll forgive you for bringing the money here or you'll start working and operating in this country. I think in this case we'd get a lot more than we do now that we're very disgusted that people are going out with their headquarters, but let's do nothing at this point, of course. I must say, in my opinion, we could go to a much larger number of flat-rate taxation of individual activities. Of course not for 50,000, it has to be 200,000 a year and then people would be happy to pay it because they would know, so much and so much I'm taxed, which is more, if I happen to earn a little more, it's mine and I'm going to spend it directly or I'm going to hire people again. The will to work, the will to work in this way would really rise. I also know this argument that the problem is that there would be some kind of delay in this case if we went to flat-rate taxation. But we should skip this phase once and create a different relationship or climate for paying taxes in the country. If I am a little more specific now, so that I will not return my calls, I will go to the fields of education, education, science and sport. I must say that this is where the Minister or Government takes the view that unemployment will not increase or save on the account of fewer employees, which means that we must not change the rules. This may be good right now, and I can agree with that. The fact is, I agree with horizontal savings, but in vertical savings, the question is whether anything could be saved. I mean, there are vertical organs that build up basic areas, kindergartens, schools and so on. In this pyramid, however, there are likely to be authorities that can save or rationalize, as well as things to save without a great threat to the quality of learning. In particular, I would like to draw attention to a knowledge that I have long been carrying with me. In the 1970s, there were discussions about what education teachers must have in kindergartens, for example. And that's when I remember Professor Chuck insisting that the youngest should be brought up by the most educated people, because if you make a mistake with young people, then you can never make up for it. That's why I think in this expertise, I think at this vertical level of quality, we should insist. Rationalize that on this level as well. I'm not sure if any school or kindergarten has a professional director, but if a director needs a technical director, if I may say so, a material director of the office, I'm not sure. There, I think it would be possible to combine quite a bit, it would also be possible to combine accounting services, it could be different in different environments, but at a common point, I think we could do a lot of things. Although, of course, I forgive myself, this may be a possible debate for the rebalancing for 2015, but I still find this thought relevant at this point. And the last thing the so-called Zuyph, with whom some boast, is punished by others. I must say one consequence of Zuif. We said that senior professors should all be in retirement right now, unless the dean finds out he needs it. We went to some extremes with these scientists. Some colleges have retired everything, some have retired almost no one. One or the other is certainly a criminal one, guilty of this view, because some scientists, who know so much, should be kept as long as possible or as long as possible as some kind of mentor. However, there are some who are already a little tired, but those should be discussed in some way, in a collegial way, that it is good for them to give up the space slowly to the younger ones. DeSUS, as our representative has already said, will support the 2014 budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must tell Mr Hainz very clearly. And it would be wise for him to be very correct and say what I am about to say. If we wanted to meet what DesSUS promised in the pre-election campaign, we would need 40 million euros. Now they've landed on 19. Let them tell me how they're going to pay the pensioners an extra between 19 million and 40 million. Whether all those who were planned will receive an allowance or not. It was clear what you were saying before the elections and it was clear what you were doing in the end with the government. I was talking about duality. It's easy to promise to share, but if you're in the government, it's hard to do business. And that's exactly what happened to you. So I think it's a good idea that if you're talking about it, you should say exactly that and in the way that I've commented on it. So I can say that what you said, Mr Hainz, is not true and is not real. And, ma'am, I applied for the replica earlier, even when Mr Levanic spoke, and you turned away, maybe you didn't see it, I'm really sorry. And I would like to say only two more sentences to him, replicated because I was repeatedly mentioned in his debate. First of all, Mr. Levanic was speaking the untruths. I'm sorry he's not here because he ran away, probably went out for lunch or something, I don't think that's a problem, but it'd be nice if he was here. See, in this document, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, I will quote once again the sentence that I read, but please listen to the exact quote of the sentence that I quoted earlier and quote: "In the first ten months of this year, an average of 120,000 unemployed persons were reported at the institution, which is one percent more than in the comparable period of 2013." The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia has this written down. How can someone then tell me that I am speaking inaccuracies or inaccuracies? That's one thing. And the other thing. Madam President, Mr Levanic has spoken about everything, oh and all, and how good things are going. When I said that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons had lost 91 million euros, that is a fact. He can explain there, the numbers turn here, left, right, whatever he wants, but in this balance that's written here, it's a fact. 91 million euro is less allocated to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. And among other things, I'm only gonna count three, four things. One is an active employment, promotion and education policy for almost 5 million, as well as an active employment policy, creating jobs for almost 5.5 million. What is still very problematic here is the support for employment and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities EUR 700 000, not to mention the protection of the unemployed, the financial compensation for the unemployed is almost EUR 54 million less.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u82	That's what it says in this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u83	I have to stop you because three minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u85	You can check in later. Maybe another replica? The replica is not allowed. Procedurally. Here you go, Mr. Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u86	At the very least, we are talking today about the 2014 budget and not 2015 budget. I will lower the other one, i.e. up to €622, everyone will get a regression, and the 19 is a plus, Mr Pojbič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you. If there's anything I can suggest right now. It is evident that Mrs Violeti Tomić did not seize the voting device. She tried to check in three times. I suggest we give her our word now. Can I? Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Looks like someone's really happy that I don't get to the point. Actually, I've been trying for three hours now, and it's not working. Today we hear a lot of words about consolidation of public finances, reducing deficits, huge public debt and so on. But underneath all these words, there are cuts and tightening of the belt, which will have an extremely negative impact on the lives of working people. Here I have to fully agree with my colleague, Mr Pojbič, who said that no one in this country is involved in the richest, especially the tax havens. Nobody talks about taxing this property or returning it. Nor does anyone mention the property of an unproven origin. Here let me refer to our Croat neighbours, who, at this time, are very happy and with ease, as some say, have picked up quite a few of our strategically important companies. They also easily seized the property of those who proved that it had been obtained illegally. Here we see opportunities to complement our budget, not in tightening the belt. Those who have not caused it bear all the weight of the crisis with us, are not guilty of it and cannot influence it in any way. These are our constituents and our taxpayers. The 2014 budget balance for the government is some kind of dry exercise. For the following year, it is forecasting savings measures of between €700 million and €800 million, with the highest level of pay in the public sector and social transfers. The crisis of capitalism is again being resolved on the backs of employment, which has paid a huge price since 2008. The government of Mira Cerar continues with the same policy, although austerity measures are both an economic and social disaster, which is now agreed by both the International Monetary Fund and many global and domestic economists. The 2014 budget is a good illustration of the economic logic of the political class. There is no political will on the income side for any more serious measures, as capital discharges are the main dogma or are unable to implement these measures, as is the case with the real estate law. At the cost level, however, it is cut like a hot knife through a mass. And since 2008, tax reforms, capital leave and the richest budget have run out of at least €2 billion and public debt has increased to the greatest extent due to the resolution of our banks. The crisis is now being solved by selling out Slovenian companies and saving at the expense of most people. And let me ask you: Is the farmer who sells his farm ever the owner of his land? Is it what? We know what he's become: a servant. Fortunately, the budget lines for culture do not decrease to a drastic extent. I am fortunate to say that cultural institutions and cultural workers have already been fed on the brink of survival. In addition, cultural policy must be aware of the importance of regionalisation of culture. Here, let me put out a so-called Maribor trinity. As the first Maribor art gallery to live under impossible conditions, art works do not have adequate depots where they could be stored adequately. With a minimum financial contribution, we could move to the premises of the former SDK. Following the bankruptcy of the Bank, there were many works of art that the Ministry of Culture was likely to have. Here let us note that other regional galleries also want them, and that it would be wrong if all works of art remained in Ljubljana. The second is the Maribor Library, which with the final construction works waits for financial means of realization. And as the last one is Kino Kicker, which with its contents represents non-commercial film production. In an economy such as ours, Slovenia, is said to be deindustrialised, investing in culture is among the most important aspects of ensuring economic growth. It could also be linked to tourism, education and many other industries. Otherwise, the economic aspect of culture is completely secondary. Culture and cultural resources are indicators of progress and prosperity in society. As we know, as Slovenians, our culture has preserved us as Slovenians through history. Because of the poorer working organisation in the cultural sphere, this is the one where the cuts are the deepest and most common. In Slovenia, too, the area of culture has paid a high price since the beginning of the crisis, so we cannot say that the proportion of smaller cuts to culture in this year's budget is not harmful, as some segments have already reduced their funds to a minimum, especially in the area of culture, the subordination of capital logic is reflected. This budget rebalance shows that neoliberal capitalism can no longer survive, that it is dead and that it is preserved only by drinking the blood of working people. Now we decide whether we really want to help people or we want to defend the fiscal pact, save, balance the budget or want to tighten the belt and sell off social property, because then that is true, as you say, demagogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u90	Dear Vice-President, I have to take a call to come back from space, or in the last week when we talk about comets, from comets back to Earth, to remind those who demagogogically discuss the traps of neoliberalism, that we live in the 21st century. My colleague Tomicheva, you spoke in a microphone that was created 150 years ago in rotten capitalism. You use tablets or computers that are the product of neoliberalism, surfing on Facebook, tweeting, all of these are products of rotten neoliberalism. You live in artificial light, in lamps invented by Edison more than 150 years ago, who worked in rotten capitalism. You drive a car that is a product of rotten capitalism, and you are likely to store the food in a refrigerator that is the product of rotten capitalism. These are all products of rotten capitalism. If I believed your words, I believe that next time you will no longer use the microphone to switch off Facebook, Twitter, that you will not use computers and refrigerators, you will not drive, you will walk and so on. Look, humanity has taken a few steps forward at this time. All of these were products of one another's capitalism, which is still far from neoliberalism, these were products of one fair capitalist order, where the best received their options, where the best were given the opportunity to prove themselves to be the best, and where the best were also rewarded. When I look at the 100 richest Slovenians, among them I find those who are with their work, with their knowledge, with their entrepreneurship, by believing in their idea of setting up their whole lives, all their assets and coming to this property in a fair way. I wish these people would stay in Slovenia. I wish these people were hiring more people. I wish these people were working and we had capitalism known to Austria and Germany, where I worked and lived for a while and somehow tried it. I tried it by relatively creating my own capital in my youth and that I could be unburdened here today. I tell people the same thing I'm saying this afternoon at some bar that I'm talking about my life experience. I want young people to experience the same kind of capitalism as I did in my growing 20s, that I had a high standard, that I could get to know the world, and that I could somehow cash my knowledge and that I used it. It's not all neoliberalism. The situation of this budget, which makes it a rebalance, is precisely due to the fact that we have too much socialism in Slovenia, too much socialist action and too little capitalist action. That's the consequence. Before that, colleague Hainz spoke about the need to bring the capital transferred abroad back. Look, it's the least of his problems. He can raise this product of rotten capitalism, so-called neoliberal capitalism, because it came to America, Motorola was one of the first mobile phone providers, and he calls some of his party colleagues. You can also look back, after the famous political assassination of Kramberger, when so-called property law was adopted here in 1992 and you can see why some of their then communist privileges, political privileges converted into state property and how the workers just robbed their comrades of all of this, along with the State Security Service. And all these banks already existed in Yugoslavia, they were only transferred in the same manner as they are today. Today, even those who robbed us lend us money through, say, the government of Alenka Bratušek. These are the stories I think we need to get rid of because they're wrong. I hope our goals are the same. My goal, why I entered politics, I see the dignity of people mainly in talking about the customer Desus, that people get higher pensions, that people have better standards. I am here to show people, with my past actions, what are the solutions to achieving our common goal: that is, a higher standard for our people, our citizens and our citizens. And that was also our goal when we established this country, in addition to no longer violating human rights and fundamental freedoms. These are the two main points of Slovenia's independence programme. We believed that Slovenia could do more and that Slovenians were a good nation. Of course, all the mistakes we have made, which have also resulted in the economic collapse of the former country, are repeated in all policies by the present country. So we're holding on to some false solidarity. Before, a colleague was somehow attacked, hoping he was impatient with strangers. See also I was a foreigner once abroad, because a whole range of Slovenians, more than half a million Slovenians, live outside this country, and they do not take advantage of certain social transfers. I also protected foreign workers who were cheated, and those who worked honestly in Slovenia did not receive payments mainly in the construction sector when they failed. I protested and was on their side as foreign citizens in the country, because I believe that they have suffered a great injustice and that Slovenia has also taken one step or two steps back in its recognition as a serious European democratic country. To get back to the budget. I have to go back to my colleague Levanič's statement earlier on the current unemployment, which is currently 115 000 people. That's right. Of course, it is necessary to know that real unemployment can be seen at the end of the year, and it is also necessary to monitor seasonally so that some people from the construction sector can also return. But the other thing that was very confusing, which I see as a macro-economy at the second level, is that 9,000 people, this result could be welcomed, so we have to look at those who are actively employed, so the number is now, if I'm not mistaken, 801 thousand, so we've raised employment by 792,000, I'm talking about actively employed citizens and citizens, to 801 thousand. But you have to be aware of what happened in the middle. We artificially maintain certain jobs with various subsidies. These subsidies will expire in two years, and then there will be a real picture of whether we actually hired these people, or whether certain companies for these people are somehow exploiting state subsidies and will be sacked. We must not forget that many have also been erased from employment records, a whole range of people who have been paid double so far, and have found a job outside this country. And most of the time, we are talking about less unemployment, and the important information that we should be operating on in this National Assembly is what is the situation of the people who are actively employed. If that's 801 and it's rising, look, I can say hello. However, I fear that such measures, which we are taking, will make Slovenia even more uncompetitive. And this is the biggest problem of this country in the future and it has been in the past. The non-competitiveness I have talked about most of the time, I have always been very critical and I am still up to the school system, especially higher education, now in the fall we have enrolled on a whole range of humanities and social programmes for a whole range of young people who will never get a job. We urgently need, not a reduction in wages in the public sector, an immediate review of institutions in the country that we do not currently need, which cause bureaucratic barriers to certain permits, to thank these people for their work, not to throw them directly on the road, but to retrain them through programmes, that is, if they do not find a job, to retrain these people and to bring their education or competences closer to those economic sectors that they need at this point. This would be one of the first measures I would have taken if I were Mr Cerar. So he pays in the public sector, at least if we look at cops, soldiers, firemen, watching nurses, including doctors, we can no longer reduce these salaries. We've come to the border where it doesn't go. However, it is likely that between 15 and 20 thousand people will be thanked for their cooperation, that we will not leave these people alone, but that we will reclassify them or add them to certain inspection services that will better supervise the work and that we may also redirect them to other activities where we can do more. That would be a few such measures. Of course, you need determination to do that. You have to hit the table and do it. Like I said before, you're gonna have to bite into an acid apple. To stop at my colleague Hainz's in the end. Look, give people their dignity back. I look, the Austrian pensioners who have worked for 40 years, they usually go to the spas today, they go to relatively favorable arrangements on the Canary Islands, in America. And this is done by people who have a purely average education or a low education. People who were physical workers today have a thousand 200, a thousand 300, a thousand 500 euros in pension. People who lived in socialism have 500 euros or even fewer pensions for 40 years. These are the mistakes, and these are the rotten products of neoliberalism, as some here represent. These mistakes, colleague Violeta Tomič, will no longer be repeated by the Slovenian people. Believe me, he won't do it again. But you can, when you say not to reduce, ask your socialist friends, say in North Korea, or say in Cuba, to lend us some money so that we can make up this budget somehow. And then we don't ask the rotten neoliberalist countries to lend us that money. No problem! I believe your story, I believe your ideals, but because of such ideals we have 620 mass graves, we have a whole range of people, pensioners living on the brink of survival, we have a whole range of people who have had to move out of this country, more than half a million citizens and citizens living on different continents because they have not moved this system. And a whole bunch of young people who want more, people who want more to make themselves out of themselves, are additionally punished through taxes, we've talked about real estate taxes before, they move out of that country because they don't want to. I hope that these mistakes from the past, respected colleagues and colleagues, will no longer continue in different policies. Let history teach us. You're not an ass when you go on ice again. But when you repeat these mistakes over and over again when you create the same policies and don't make a serious structural cut in this society, there will be no progress of this society. And time after 2008 is the time of missed opportunities. Completely missed opportunities for a nation that could survive, which could also be economically successful. And I believe that I have at least a few colleagues in this assembly that I have some interlocutors who will somehow listen to me and, as my colleague Pojbič has said, close once in 24 hours to pour pure wine. I am not criticising, I am always giving initiatives, I am always giving some encouragement or some experience that I have, I can say, taken from these countries, which are extremely successful, to offer them to the government and to take this step forward. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the 2015 budget will be completely different from that of the 2014 budget. I hope that at least a few of my words in this second debate have been heard today and that some will also be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. My friend Beznik was so upset that he forgot that there were dots. Easy. Thank you for teaching me that neoliberalism has given us all these benefits, such as electricity, computers, microphones and all. As far as I can remember, we also had electricity in rotten socialism. We had jobs, too. We also had holiday homes where workers could go. And those who worked and now have 500 euros in pensions, because they got them, we know who. Let's leave, we're not going back. Now we won't have a short hour of history and political science. However, I would like to point out that our Group does not promote a return. We want the way forward. But you must realize that capitalism, as it is now, has come into a major crisis. For only during the period of crisis did the number of millionaires double the number of billionaires in the world. That's not fair. What you're defending is evolutionism, not capitalism. That means they survive only the most powerful. One minimum of social justice would keep capitalism, and there would not be so much desire for socialism. But not the old ones, as I would like to point out, but according to the new social arrangements, because, as we both have found, we are in the 21st century. But you're talking about the arrangement that was in the 20th century that you lived when you fought against socialism. The 21st century is essential for a person to regain consciousness. This neoliberal capitalism has ruined our environment. Look at the climate change we're having. Look at the floods, the acorns. Do you think that's normal? That it's a product of nature? It is a product of pollution and capitalism, to which man, nature, environment is not important. Not pension, not social. Therefore, we will all have to sit down together, happily, and talk about the value of the 21st century as a new man, a new, enlightened compassionate man, not one who cares for himself alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u94	Rebalance, some of you have said today that the first step is to stabilise the country. On the other hand, some SMC Members have said that these are minor corrections and that there are no major structural changes here. I don't know, now it's going to be up to us to decide whether it's about stabilising the country or just minor corrections. But I don't know how this rebalancing can be in the direction of stabilisation if we re-indebted ourselves. We may be in debt, but the question is, why are we in debt? Are we in charge of the economy, the growth of the economy, the new infrastructure? I guess not. For example, from our municipality, where one of the most important roads is, you will say that it is already a road again, but this is a state road, which has been in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia since 2008, and with each budget, the rebalancing, is moving away. It is now in 2015 to be made. This is the road which, when the highway Celje–Maribor is closed, is a compulsory road. And there are accidents, and even young lives have gone on this road. With each rebalancing, we move it back into history. The same applies to the connecting road Dramalje–Sentjur then to Rogaška, for the development of Kozjanski. It is also likely that we will not see for a while, because, as we listened to the Minister of Infrastructure yesterday, European funds will be sought and perhaps not. Obviously, we will not need such roads for rural development, as measures or the item on rural development measures are also falling by 14 million. So, what are we in charge of? Certainly not for infrastructure, as rail transport and infrastructure are also falling by 41 million. We are certainly not in charge of rural development, as this item is also shrinking. Today, there was also something about unemployment, active employment policies, youth guarantees, etc. Yesterday, on the question of Parliament, I basically commended the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the equal opportunities for all these active youth employment policies, but I pointed out another thing that is happening on the ground. This is that employers forgive over 30 years of age and employ under 26 years of age. So what happens now? It happens that parents, fathers and mothers, without a job, are increasing the social problem of this family precisely because of these guarantees. Once again, the guarantee for young people for first jobs is no problem, but another area needs to be seen here when they lose older jobs that have a family. And I can't understand it at all that nothing was said yesterday about what was going to happen in this part. How will we reduce unemployment, social problems, forgiveness in this work? How are we going to help with an active employment policy or new jobs for those companies or those employees who are now ahead of bankruptcy, and we know exactly that they will be unemployed within a month? Is the Employment Service already dealing with them, or will he begin to do so when he hands them the booklet that has happened so far? We have some mechanisms. Yesterday I warned you, we have national qualifications, we have possible qualifications, but they start too late. When bankruptcy occurs, when a person remains unemployed, he goes to the institution and his calvary begins. Counselors, some, frankly, have no idea what kind of overqualifications are possible, send them not to say what professions they have no interest in. Some go into this just because they want to work because they have to survive the family, they also go to such professions that are not written for them, and others simply no longer see their way out. We now have such a situation that on the one hand we have a reduction of 90 million in the field of labour and social and on the other hand every day humanitarian action. Humanitarian actions for children with special needs, with those with head injuries, a humanitarian action to enable parents to therapy. Why is there no investment or rebalancing in this area? Why isn't there an increase in funds here? That's a lot of trouble. I believe you know that you're also aware of this in the Ministry, and there will be something that needs to be done here. And this is a reflection of our society that we have humanitarian actions for sick children, for the elderly, mainly for everyone, even for health. Even in health care. And we say that we have good health care, we take health care on the line, we do humanitarian action at the same time, we collect stoppers so that the children who are here can be told that they are unsuspecting can be sent to America for surgery and then the children can meet. And then our doctors say it's a miracle. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. When there was a talk about reducing employment in the public sector, there was already a document on the merger of public institutions, an intervention law, which states that public institutions with 15 employees will be abolished, that they will no longer be a legal entity.I don't know what the criterion is. [[…]] Why is it not a criterion, say, how much is a public institution financed by the state or municipal budget and how much is it financed by itself? Some public institutions are financed in 90% of the market activity, from LEADER, IPA and so on, and in 10% of the municipal or state budget. This public institution, which is mostly financed by market share, has five employees and another public institution has nine employees, financed entirely from the state budget or from the municipality. And we're going to put this together now? Why is it not a criterion for how and how public institutions are financed? Some public institutions are not only on the shoulders of the State or the municipal budget or the state budget. At the same time, the previous government has issued a decision on a 1% reduction in public sector employment by the end of the year, while at the same time requiring projects to employ people. At the same time, it also asks public institutions, not just the economy, to use public works, so they should be employed in public works. Yeah, look, this isn't working out! On the one hand, you want the public service to reduce by 1% or even now we are talking about 2%, but on the other hand you are demanding employment. I think things will have to be coordinated here as well. Again, in the public sector there are also public education institutions funded in 90% of market activities. I don't know, now that you're nodding, I've been working in a public institution that's 90% funded by market activity and only 10% of the municipal budget or the state and municipal budget, although it's written differently. And we cannot compare such a public institution and one that is completely financed and not, I will say, blink with a finger to get any funds from any projects. So you need to take a look at these things, too. I would point out, however, that the rebalance also shows this reduction in education, the labour market and so on, that today we have education that is not adapted to the labour market, which is not adapted to the economy, that we still have too many professions in the field of social activities and less in the field of science and technology. And here, too, I think that the ministries should harmonise these matters, look at what the labour market is like, focus here and not constantly brag about how we are reducing unemployment. Look, from May to September, unemployment is reduced every year. These are seasonal workers. There's no problem. Now, look, there's already been an increase in unemployment in October. But I said before, we're not talking about the unemployed, we're talking more about the number of active people, the fact that it's increasing. So that we don't talk about it staggering or diminishing. This mentality, this leap we must also make, talk about the active population, not the unemployed. I think that ministries, such as social services and so on, say that we have made the maximum possible, that there are fewer applicants for social assistance and so on when on the other hand there are humanitarian actions every day. It just doesn't work out. It is also important to look, as I said, at investing in infrastructure. We talked about the third development axis, some say it's not important for development. Look, we've already talked about the Koreans going to Austria and going even more mass, and I think from which other work of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u95	I'd like a representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that with most of the things that concern active employment policy in particular, I fully agree with the suggestions that we are going in the direction of creating long-term jobs. In an active employment policy with various subsidies, which we have focused on reaching long-term jobs, we have subsidised in the last year, and I must say that the Ministry has drawn 99% of the funds for this purpose, and we have directed them not only at projects, as has been said at times, but only that something is being educated, there are some other educations, such as, say, the learning of a bonton or some computer course that can be completely missed. In view of the needs of the labour market, we work with the institution almost daily. The institution must also modernise in order to be able to reach out to the person when it loses its job, at least at this point we agree, but there are things that have escalated in some way in our pool. Between 2012 and 2013, unemployment among young people increased by more than 10 percent. This leap was enormous, and then we had to cut into this pool for 29 years with various programs, as far as we could. It was one swimming pool that had skyrocketed, and another pool was long-term unemployed. Of course, problems that fall out of the system for one year without a job, are difficult to bring back in, difficult to retrain or retrain for another job, especially if someone has worked in one job for more than 30 years, such as sewing, and is difficult to adapt to another job. So we do have retraining programmes, we have job training, we have a job test, we've got a lot of counselors, we've got a lot of guidance on the job, they're on the ground. One of these measures is also in the Youth Guarantees, which is particularly co-financed. The 157 million we have earmarked for the Youth Guarantee will not only be within the framework of subsidies to get rid of someone for two years, but then to show statistics because that is not the point. That's why such measures are 8, 9, everything else is more or less structural, there is a real intervention in the database of employees over 50 years of age, structural unemployment, we have black jobs, there's a huge espection that's jumped out of bounds, while all of us in all governments believe that the promotion of self-employment is something positive, let's say that we give someone a subsidy to start a business with our idea, we have now come to believe that this escalated in the opposite direction when the employer sees this form of work as the cheapest form of work, and then people are redirecting into this part. I believe that because I know that you are working in one of these areas, you will get to know monthly what is happening to us in the labour market, you will quickly realize that a number of people from one form of work are moving to another, and are looking for any way to bypass any of the laws, so we are trying to simplify this as much as possible. But it will not work otherwise than what we are doing now, within 14 days we will have on the table the forms of work that exist in Slovenia. You know that the differences between taxation of different forms of work are very different, that some are very unattractive, that we doubt that they may even be attractive to the labour market, that someone is serving them at all, even copyright contracts that are more expensive, much more expensive than others, so we will see what is happening to us in this segment. This part of the labour market must also experience one part of the reform towards allowing people to be different forms of work. I would just like to remind you of this minus one because I agree with you, but rather than three retirements, two jobs, because this part is then a loss for young generations who need to come into the system slowly, even if it is the public sector. But public works don't belong to this minus one because they're not public servants, so they're exempt from it. We have never looked at public institutions according to this standard. But what is crucial to us is that when we look at unemployment like everyone else, the working population, we agree, we look at our success from this point of view. Not that many of them are on the record, so I didn't talk about unemployment number 112 before, but I was realistic, already 115, just because of the seasonal work. We know what's happening to us. But our unemployment has now been declining for a year and a half. In October, there is always a rise due to the influx of new people into the labour market. We're gonna do something to help with our subsidies. Even if we do not continue our public works in the following year, it is a resurgence in the pool of the unemployed. There are things that now live on certain subsidies. We have warned that when we responded to young people up to the age of 29 and to long-term unemployed, we began to fill the pool between the ages of 30 and 40, saying those, including so-called young people, if you want, because they have their families, but no subsidies are available. As part of the measures we are currently preparing, we will also provide for measures for the long-term unemployed and those with problems in the labour market. We have also been approached by these people, who are thirty and over, we know, but at the beginning, when we were building employment measures, we drew the most out of these two graphs because we wanted to reduce unemployment, and now we have a little bit more on the second segment. A huge area, social work centres linked to social legislation, employment institutions, and the labour market that connects with each other, and during the crisis it likes to escalate in many areas. A lot of what you said, we're trying to fix, fix, improve, which is a better expression for me. It is true, however, that we will probably never be fully satisfied with what is right, not those who sit in opposition, not those who try to solve certain things, because we feel we need to be better every day with measures, and especially be careful about what is actually happening on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u97	The word has Susanna Pretty Šimenka to prepare herself for the Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you for your words, President, and welcome once again to my side. I will continue exactly where I originally ended: with a deficit at the end of 2014, which is estimated to amount to €1.21 billion from the balance sheet. Most of this, as I mentioned earlier, due to interest, interest because we are extremely highly indebted. Highly indebted also because we have put a lot of billions in Slovenian banks. I would now like to highlight the Umar report, which was the basis for this 2014 budget rebalancing, reads: "The ratios in the banking system are gradually stabilised, but the volume of loans to the business sector is still declining." I was disturbed by this sentence on the committee itself, where this report was also presented to us. He has disturbed me, however, because he makes me know that the decline in the size of lending the economy to statistics is in fact very positive. Did we really fix the banking system so he wouldn't lend to the economy? In the past, it has been very common to hear that we must first repair the banking system, only then will we be able to talk about the very start-up of the economy. The crediting of the economy is shrinking, that is also heard from the field. Companies face very serious difficulties in both obtaining credit and obtaining bank guarantees themselves. And it's not bad standing companies, it's good companies, most of them are medium-sized enterprises. And I'll go back to the balance sheet and the Ministry of Economy items. The growth and business development incentive item decreases by 2.5m euros after the rebalancing. It is not a large number, but nevertheless, in the context of the explanation of the item, it is stated that part of the funds may be earmarked for compensation for damage to natural disasters by beneficiaries. In Slovenia, we have suffered exceptional damage due to natural disasters this year, so it is very difficult to understand why the reduction is precisely on this item, even though it is worth EUR 2.5 million. Based on the total estimated damage, this amount is small, but however I believe that those who have suffered this damage would be able to make very good use of it. This is why I also do not understand why we are reducing the budget reserve by EUR 47.2 million, when we know that, if we do not have the planned funds to cover the costs of natural disasters in the budget itself, we can also cover this damage from the budget reserve. And given the extremely high damage caused by natural disasters, it would make sense for this year to provide these funds for the damage. Much more meaningful than throwing money into banks, from which citizens and businesses today find it very difficult to get credit themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u99	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u100	Good afternoon. Today's debate on the 2014 budget rebalancing, if I express myself in a fire drill, I understand as a dry exercise before that major wet exercise that will come, this is for the 2015 rebalancing as some kind of exercise, whether the coalition is in shape and whether the coalition can withstand all the pressures that await it. When we talk about public finances and the budget, we often discuss the key dilemma that has now become a mantra: saving yes or saving no. I have repeatedly pointed out that this is a false dilemma, that this dilemma does not exist at all. There is no such dilemma; these two options do not exist at all so that we can make a decision against saving or saving. Because it is clear what needs to be done: the costs of the crisis must be distributed among all social groups, so that we do not overburden some. The persistent repetition of some that there is enough saving, though great is heard, is a beautiful sentence, which goes especially to people who are difficult to date from month to month, very much in the ear and we can fully understand them. But there is also another part of the story to tell. This is that if we say no to saving, things will only get worse, but they will not improve, which most people would understand when they listen to the other side, who says that we need to end this saving and then everything will be nice and right. If you look at the numbers very precisely, find that our expenditure is much over revenue. Which means what's missing is something we need to borrow somewhere. What we borrow is being deposited somewhere, and interest has to be paid for it. And these interest rates already represent more than 10% of our annual budget. So we throw a shovel out of the window, a tenth of our budget, because year after year we owe ourselves and spend beyond our capabilities. And I would expect that this part of the story to be explained also by those who are very intensely talking about how saving is unnecessary, pointless, and to tell another part of the story that if we do not do so, it means that the cost of interest will continue to increase and that the manoeuvre space for other expenditure, such as public health, public education, for public sector wages, will be further reduced. Okay, well, then you're gonna ask me if there's any need to save, and then you're gonna propose. The limit of saving or saving intensity depends mainly on our income. The more the state creates, the more we bring into the state budget, the less pressure on saving or reducing spending. Only a few resources would be put in place where the country could seek additional resources for the budget in the coming years and thus reduce the pressure on savings. Yesterday, I was in Brussels, where there was a very intense debate on the package, a heavy 300 billion euros to go towards different investments across the European Union to speed up, start the economy, and in particular start construction. But the key message was that this 300 billion euros would not be distributed just for projects that the countries would remember and want for certain projects money, but that money would go exclusively to projects that could contribute to something new in the country and also to some new start-up in the private sector. In addition to these 300 billion, which are now promising, are not yet tangible, but will be short-term, an important and key source of the Slovenian state budget is also the European funds or funds that we are looking forward to from the 2014-2020 perspective. But one year has passed, and we have not yet begun to draw on the 3.3 billion euro available to us by 2020. And also the documents needed to start this drawdown are not the best, especially those who will draw the most out of these funds, and these are the municipalities, which have given certain consent to these documents only with reservation. If I now complete this package of European money, which can be added to the state budget, I will now go to another source, which, in the first phase, needs a little debt, but on the other hand, can then increase the flow into the budget and also allow for faster development to a certain part of the country. You know our roads are in an invisible and very bad state. Since we are not restoring them as we should, these roads are further deteriorating from year to year, and this also means that the costs of possible later renewal and postponement are increasing. Economist Jože P. Damian calculated that in some ways the state would need €400 million per year to start construction and to launch a system, some comprehensive system of reconstruction of state roads, which are important both for tourism and for the rest of the economy, because the integration structure and infrastructure is crucial. These statements are also confirmed in some way by the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, where they said that their budget was now around 100 million euros, in 2004-2008 their budget was between 300 and 400 million euros. If we want them to function normally to repair what needs to be repaired and done on road infrastructure, then they need at least 300 million euros a year's heavy budget. And that's about the amount that economist Jože P. Damian mentioned. Speaking of debts, it would be wise to talk about such things that through other doors can bring back money in the form of taxes paid and other taxes. Restoring roads and thus promoting construction is definitely a step in this direction. The next additional source is tourism. I point out several times the case presented by Mr Restoršek at the Chamber of Commerce, where he made it very clear that Slovenian tourism needs about EUR 20 million to make tens of thousands of new jobs. You seem to me this number, given the result they're offering, is really low. You know, it's only going to be the Heat Plant of Šostanj annually because it's going to operate, it's going to produce fifty million Euros of loss, and this doesn't even burden a large majority in this House. On the other hand, tourism workers are asking you for 20 million euros, which is much less than 1% of the total budget, and there is no response. They justify these matters in concrete, relevant terms, that an important part of the tourist infrastructure was built already in 2004-2008, where huge investment was made in buildings, hotels, apartments and now it is crucial that these facilities be filled and that in some way tourist workers earn profits, make profits and thus fill the state budget. Of course, they stress that it is crucial when we want to win international and foreign guests, that these guests know Slovenia, that they feel it as a safe country, and therefore it is crucial and extremely important to invest in the promotion of Slovenia, even though it seems unnecessary to anyone. But if you look at the last match between Slovenia and England, and England is even a member of the European Union, some media have the wrong name for Slovenia. If I said European funds, road rehabilitation funds, funds for tourism will now come to another important source which could trigger and contribute to greater budgetary resources and thus reduce the pressure on the necessary savings, that is certainly a simplification of the business environment. Here at least three elements are needed to simplify this business environment, but first I would start with the rehabilitation of the banking system. We have invested a lot of money in the rehabilitation of the banking system, but we are not satisfied with the results in some way. And if we go to look at the detailed reasons why this is happening, then we come to interesting conclusions. If you look at Portugal or Spain, with these Southwestern European countries and Slovenia, what were the reasons for the crisis there, what were the reasons for the crisis with us, then you find one very interesting thing that all these bad claims, all this huge minus that accumulated in banks, was in Portugal and Spain the result of the real estate balloon that broke and in Slovenia was more or less the result of wild privatisation attempts, better said 'admission', that is a better expression, and other senseless business actions and moves. If you look at the comparison, what are the results between bad claims. In Portugal, for example, even if the country has transferred certain bad claims to a bad bank or other institutions, these properties still retain some value and the country will still be able to get some of these assets back, while in Slovenia most of these bad loans went for the purchases of business shares, purchases or attempts to control companies, and unfortunately, this money is no longer available to be withdrawn from anywhere. And that is the essential difference, that there may be more to be drawn from this rehabilitation of the banking system in the southwest, but there is not much to expect from Slovenia. That is why it is crucial to rehabilitate the banking system, not only that we invest as much in the banking system as possible, but that we do everything possible to make the Slovenian economy a restructuring. This means that companies adapt to operate in a way that allows them to do business normally, rather than continue to insist on doing business that creates a loss every month. And another problem that is also specific to Slovenia is that in every failed business that today appears in bad claims and in those strange loans, more banks have been involved in each such business. And now that these matters need to be rectified and restructured, any agreement by a large number of banks is necessary, making all things more difficult and more complicated. Then there are some pressures on companies that do not even want genuine business restructuring, i.e. a different way of doing things, but they all want financial restructuring, which means they want primarily a reprogramming of credits, not so much a change in their mode of operation. What the state can and should do in this area is that, in particular, the DUTB and the state banks would call for money to be given only on condition that business restructuring takes place. However, we have a number of cases where DUTB is only eligible for financial restructuring. In the Western world, bankruptcy is sort of a new beginning, but bankruptcy is the end of the business and the destruction of the company. And if we want this system to be somehow purified, what doesn't work is unfortunately to let go of bankruptcy, and to support those who have some real opportunities to succeed and continue to work well. So the rehabilitation of the banking system is one of the important tasks to be done. Second thing, public sector reform. Here we could sell and talk in length and thread, but one thing that's in the sky is so loud and you can hear it everywhere, but this system is in the public sector, which is the same as those that are good, as it is for those who are lazy. And those who work hard, who earn that money, simply lose their motivation and will to do whatever they want to do, change things, because they eventually find that they have much more problems than those who peacefully wait for 8 hours to go home. And another thing that no one is dealing with, but I think that it could also make an important contribution to reducing expenditure, is the new approaches in the public sector itself. In particular, in Scandinavia, there is a very intensive and present work at home within the public sector, which means that transport costs, lunches, office rental costs and the like are being dropped. According to the calculations I found in a study, in Slovenia, if between 160,000 civil servants were to encourage them between 15 and 20,000 because of the nature of their work to work at home, the country could save between 50 and 70 million euros annually, which is a very exemplary and substantial number and would be worth catching up to. If these approaches work in the world, we must ask ourselves why we do not use these modern approaches in Slovenia. I'm telling you, without sending all the public servants to work at home right now, I've given you a specific number. At 160 thousand, this is between 15 and 20 thousand people who could do this work at home. I'm running out of time, so I'm going to go to the third thing that seems urgent to me, and this is a reform of spatial legislation itself. We have met with Director Ars, who is most responsible for this, and he has responded that this spatial legislation is so complicated and complicated that it no longer makes sense to repair and upgrade it, but it needs to be simply rejected and written a whole new concept of how things would work. It is crucial in spatial legislation that things work quickly, because this depends on the adoption of municipal spatial plans. The municipal spatial plans, however, are key to the issue of building permits. And in today's Finances, you can read how difficult it is to get into a business space precisely because of this difficult process of obtaining a building permit, which means that even those who have money and the will to do things in Slovenia, these will pass and certain things do them better abroad. I'm only going to give you one such banal case because real things are unsustainable. For example, I live in the municipality of Kamnik, and our neighbouring municipality of Command has a huge business zone and within this business zone, the Ministry first allowed them to build and municipally arrange for business facilities, and then a state nature protection agency decided that there was a very important "fleha" in there, as Slovenia would say, an area where a very special frog lives. And because of this frog, they gave a negative opinion that it should not be built there, they sent it to the Ministry, the Ministry said it could be built, and this pingpong from the Ministry to one institution, which is within their scheme, has been going on for more than 3, 4 years. And then one wonders who's crazy in this country. As I said at the outset, today we will first see how solid this coalition is, how united it is and will represent an important exercise, this is before that key exercise of adopting the 2015 budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u101	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! This debate on the budget balance is now quite one-sided, as there is virtually no response on the coalition side, especially in the largest coalition party. More than three-quarters of the time they had at their disposal, and that's not much, it's still there. The government is also very receptive to the views expressed by its fellow Members. If we take a quick look at the result of the government's work, look at what's under the line, then all we see is that the deficit has increased by 0.2% of GDP or about 200 million euros, slightly less. In his opening remarks, both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance would expect more tangible measures than a summary of some general developments. I think that a lot of this has been reduced and it is obvious that the things that are enshrined in the coalition contract in this first step in the budget rebalancing process have not been implemented, but despite the fact that your deficit has risen both relatively and nominally. In view of what has been heard in the National Assembly today, I have to sort of agree with what Mr Han said yesterday when he said he hoped the government would get together as soon as possible and start working. Although this statement may have raised matters considerably in the coalition, given how many measures we have received during this period, given what is forecast, I think this statement is quite correct and true. Clearly, any special measures, except that you got rid of one Member of the National Assembly, during this period in those three, four months after the elections, were not easy. Given that I have been a Member for some time now, I also have some experience from previous periods, and I can also make a comparison between these periods, including between the mandates of individual governments, I can in fact find out the following. The only two governments that had expressed a desire for a balanced, balanced budget were the governments of Janez Janša. The first Janša government, which led the 2004-2008 budget to be practically flattened, and the second Janša government, which has made radical changes, take root steps towards rationalising public spending, reducing public spending and reducing the budgetary deficit remaining for the government of Borut Pahor. The Borut Pahor's government was essentially based on two things: additional budgetary debt and cutting social transfers. This was sold as a fair distribution of burdens. The government, which came after the second government of Janez Janša, the government of Alenka Bratušek, raised the debt rate three times and, in the second part, made an extremely strong appeal mainly to the area of additional burdens, additional taxes. She didn't get lucky. Something has prevented the Constitutional Court. However, the concept was not a rationalisation of the part of the state administration, the public administration, but rather the borrowing of debts and the raising of taxes for the fact that these transfers took place within the budget and then directed money towards individual target, political groups that then supported the political option. Thus, the issues between the budget and the things that this country needs have not been harmonised. And the resources they were getting went for the wrong reasons. It is difficult to expect from the state budget, although you have raised the deficit to encourage some economic growth, if you have cut investments, if you do not draw on and draw on European funds, if the state administration has been blocking the signing of cohesion decisions for two years and so on. When you support a public apparatus, you cannot expect, regardless of the level of the budget, any addition to economic growth. When the Secretary of State spoke earlier about the fall of unemployment, he might have done an analysis — although his colleague says that he does not, because they talked about other data and data from the PIC – as much as employment in the private sector has increased during this time, this is said to the real sector, and how much in the public administration. If you are solving the problem of unemployment through employment through such or other forms – or reticent or public works in public institutions and public institutions, you have done nothing in essence. Nothing. The matter is virtually falling, the state budget of some minimum sum for this, the reduced figures of purpose and the real thing in this area has not been done at all. The Minister of Finance said earlier in the introduction that the European Commission had recognised the measures taken by the current government and had already corrected the data on economic growth. If one of the key coalition partners finds and declares that the government is not working, and the Minister of Finance is talking about the government's work correcting the data on economic growth, then something is not. But it is not Mr. Han's statement, yesterday's, or today's Minister. I think it is the duty of the Government to, when it comes with acts to the National Assembly, present an honest and realistic picture of the situation. It's probably what the coalition knows. He is aware of the consequences, but that is what we who are in opposition need. It will be very difficult to convince me that matters are moving in the right direction. The first action of the government or the future coalition was to expand the number of government departments. It is said that the number of ministries has risen by three. The question is how far this is covered in the budget's rebalancing. It's a very big question. And the very big question is what will happen to the state administration law. Here we hear these ideas about how the government should press on the local community to start joining public institutions that have, I don't know, less than 7 or 9 employees. If the government wanted to set a good example, then the number of resources should be reduced. You see the problems with filling ministerial cities. Secondly, we should first come by law on state administration and there make root cuts in the number of agencies, such and different councils, offices and there reduce the number of employees. And this is the only measure to increase the efficiency of the state administration in general by increasing the employment of additional measures cannot be achieved. There's a lot to do. This was demonstrated by the first and second government of Janša. One of the fellow Members here spoke about how good a minister was. The government's actions are not dependent on one minister. The government's actions depend on the Prime Minister and his firmness to carry out what is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. Ministers with their teams are the contractors of these policies. No minister can do anything if this system doesn't work. And in the first Janša government, root cuts were made in public administration, radical changes, debt was greatly reduced and budgets were levelled, while those who paid in the state budget, both economic work and natural persons or citizens, were also burdened. It was a big measure and it was only done in less than two years. And you can do that. Something similar has happened in the area of the removal of bureaucratic barriers. It may have been forgotten, but when Mr Virant was Minister of Public Administration and Home Affairs, the government and the coalition behind this have carried out a number of simplifications of bureaucratic procedures. And for these improvements, she also received a UN recognition. If you have forgotten, Mrs Irma Pavlinič went to New York for this recognition. Yes. The same Minister Virant was also a minister in one of the following governments, in the government of Alenka Bratušek, and procedures for debirocratisation ran in the opposite direction. So the results of the government's work are not only dependent on a minister, but they depend primarily on the one who runs the government. And the same minister under different governments in the same functions can act in the exact opposite direction. That's the case. which I have stated to Mr. former Minister Virant. These relativisations, which are happening, are said to be recorded in the coalition contract, and then, before all of this is closed and the ink is dried, deviate from what is enshrined in the coalition contract, this does not lead to any conceptual approach, some systemic solution to problems and the removal of obstacles to the implementation of these policies. That doesn't lead to that. The proof that it is is true is this rebalancing. And the proof that this will be true will be the next rebalancing for 2015. Unfortunately, we also have no basis to guide the planning of these budgetary policies in any way. The implementing law on the fiscal rule has not been passed, and the previous government has swung him unconscious until we threatened with a constitutional charge. But now a good time, even this rebalancing is done, there is no such foundation as to bind the government to some rational, focused, planned operation. This movement between items, when we move something over there, is not some rational act. If you reduce the Court of Auditors, because the Minister of the Interior, who has found great illegalities and given a negative opinion in the previous KPC, is then given a certain award to reduce the resources of the Court of Auditors, then it is probably not the right measure. At the same time, the information officer, because she may have acted as a pro bono for the previous government, or perhaps also for a pro bono in the sense that she tolerates a lot of things, increases the funds there. In this way to direct the functioning of individual institutions, this is not appropriate at all. And there's something else. I think it's time in the National Assembly for the parties criticising the Public Finance Balance Act to eliminate it. The party to the Social Democrats was the last part of the mandate and also a constitutional party to the coalition in this mandate. Also DeSUS, someone else in this part. And you've all been extremely critical of the Public Finance Balance Act. The protests were such and different, big, unional and so on. This law is still a key law for this budget rebalancing and probably also for the next. It's a key law. And if these men, including some young people among them who know much, are not able to prepare some different measure, some different solution, then it would be good for at least someone to apologize to those who have adopted this law with the knowledge that it is necessary and that it is, in fact, inevitable if we want the state to go some way forward. The increase in public debt for employment, system maintenance and increased interest payments is not guaranteed that economic growth will rise. In any case, we are an export economy, to a large extent, a smaller part represents the internal market. And if we don't have results on export markets, then these measures are practically free of charge, and they only mean one step faster to the collapse that is happening. I therefore propose that, within the framework of its powers, the government accelerates all those measures related to activities, to physical activities, to investments and that it devotes less to these various restructurings, who will be the director of which office or not. It was not a problem to find 70,000 euros for the retirement of one of the retired directors, but it is difficult to support an amendment that would now help people to repair the art and other things. This is actually unacceptable to me as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. With an easy retirement for 3 or 4 functional salaries, there is no way to do anything to alleviate people's problems and to stop any irrational investments made in the budget, and not those that contribute to economic growth, jobs or improving the situation of people, such as in rural areas or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u103	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues and fellow Members. In my ears I still have superlatives coming out of Alenka Bratušek's mouth and describing the 2014 budget, how this oh and even that the rebalancing will not be needed at all and so on. Today we have a rebalancing ahead of us, and it is clear that Mrs Bratušek planned the 2014 budget roughly the same as her Commissioner's. I'll say a little bit more, I've been focusing a little bit more on the Ministry of Education line. Resources in the balance sheet are being reduced, among other things, to prepare documentation for potential EU projects, for investments, for infrastructure, which is incomprehensible, as we give up our European means, which also threatens the further development of Slovenia. The same item reduces funds for research equipment and consequently affects international obligations set out in an already harmonised international contract. With both moves, we are excluded from the dynamics of international research activities, which means we are lagging behind in development and, as a result, we do not expect the impact of research and science on growth in the Slovenian economy. Under item 050302, funding for the work of young researchers is also being reduced, and funding is only starting in November instead of December, which also means that the opportunities for the most quality jobs of young people are being missed, which is unacceptable, and this is also one of the reasons why more and more young people are moving abroad from Slovenia. Under the heading Information Society, resources for research and innovation in the field of electronic communications are being reduced, which our researchers literally put abroad where such opportunities are. This will cause an additional brain drain that is already too present. The cancellation of the call for computerisation also reduces the resources for the education of employees in public information institutions, making the Slovenian education shifts to the edge of modernity, as we know that knowledge can spread most through digital possibilities. This means less involvement of teachers and leadership in modern didactic approaches, resulting in lower quality of education, lower results of our students and students. There is also a visible reduction in wage appropriations, which is still in line with the standards and standards, according to the description. Here it must be said that behind it lies the greatest desolation of education in the history of independent Slovenia. The measure is based on coercing teachers to overburden teachers, in primary school up to 27 pedagogical hours, the current standard is 22, and in high school up to 25 pedagogical hours, the current standard is 20, which is in line with the law and regulations, and in fact means saving, since the sum for paying an excessive burden of 4 teachers working after 5 hours is significantly lower than the employment of one new teacher with 20 hours of pedagogical obligation, since the sum for paying one hour of overtime does not even reach the value of one hour of compulsory standard 22 or 20 hours. In addition, there is no payment of contributions and other charges. All is well and well if we do not simultaneously replace an expert who leaves school and distributes his hours to other teachers as an increase in the amount of work. This is how many teachers teach unskilledly at this stage, and this means a lower quality of knowledge received by participants in education. As mentioned earlier, this again means a drop in quality in Slovenian education. We can also identify the same shortcomings in the rebalancing as in primary school – the silent change of standards by teaching unskilled employees, which means further controversial Pikala practices that we have seen in the previous mandate. At the same time, there is nothing going on in vocational education, which has a strong advantage in the European education agenda, even though this part shows the opportunities for the economy and jobs of young people and the retraining of the unemployed, which we still need very much. The lack of funds in the field of sports infrastructure is also unacceptable. We believe that this is the inability of operational services at the Ministry and sports institutions. Unfortunately, debt is also increasing. We are young people who will someday repay these debts and if they hold the river, on the young world stands, then, unfortunately, in Slovenia we can say that on young people, even if the world stands, there are mainly loans that we will repay in the future. Of course, you have increased on the one hand the funds for justice, the funds for judges and prosecutors amounting to €15 million, and on the other hand we are lowering the funds for health care of €10 million. We know what our justice is, 24% trust, judges are never responsible for their actions, and obviously we reward them with an additional 15 million, while doctors responsible for their actions in the hands of human life are rewarded or thanked by taking away 10 million euros from them. I was talking about the floods yesterday. I asked the minister, I got the answers I got to approach this issue. It also reduces the means of regulating watercourses. That's what you say, on one side of the word, on the other side of the act. I'm afraid we're gonna have to watch this for four more years. But in the end, when the elections come, thank God, people set the mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u105	A representative of the Government, state secretary of mag, has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. This last debate and some others have encouraged me to repeat some of the facts that obviously need to be repeated over and over again so that we may hear each other once and for all. Reduction of health resources. Not because of the postponement, not because of the failure to exercise individual rights or because of intentional delay in investments, but simply because, at the end of October, it was assessed that these assets could not be used during this year, given how investments in the field are actually taking place. Reduction of funds in education. Let's take a closer look, very carefully. For the entire ministry, which is provided after the rebalancing of 607 million and 30 million 600 thousand less than it was in the revised budget last November, and most of this reduction is at the expense of individual research projects that have not been carried out this year and in some others, for example, human resources to support science and so on. I am surprised to note that sport and recreation are taking place, as sport infrastructure is provided with a rebalancing of 2.6 million more resources than are provided in the adopted budget. I am surprised by the statement concerning the taking of funds in primary and secondary education. For primary education, 4.7 million more funding is provided than was provided in the budget adopted and 2.7 million more in secondary, general and vocational education than in the 2014 budget adopted. Once again, the cuts we have made for individual budget users are cuts where it is justified to expect spending by October of this year so that the funds cannot be spent. Additional resources for the justice area. This is not about the luxury of judicial authorities, but it is about allowing them to carry out their actual function. Last year, insolvency legislation was amended, which led to several insolvency proceedings, as expected, and court costs related to the provision of funds for bankruptcy managers and winding-up managers are higher than were estimated last year on the basis of, say, medium-optimists or, if you wish, medium-pessimistic expectations of the effects of insolvency legislation. Funds have been added to enable judicial authorities to follow with their activities the enhanced activities of police and other law enforcement authorities in the detection and prosecution of the most serious crimes in the field of economic crime and to conclude such procedures more quickly. In view of the fact that it has been quite a while since I last spoke up, I would like to explain two more things that have appeared in the debate over the past two hours in essence. First of all, why are we lowering the budget reserve? Dear Members, the budget reserve is being formed for the beginning of the year to provide certain resources to cover unexpected expenditure. This year we spent this reserve for various purposes. But if we have estimated at the beginning of the year that we need 50 million, we certainly do not need 50 million in November, so it is right to reduce it to what is justified by some of the artificial rules that can be expected by the end of this year. 2.8 million we have estimated that we could possibly need it in this area. And once again, funds for emergency intervention measures in connection with floods are provided and made available in a special reserve for natural disasters. In order for these funds to be released, certain procedures defined by the Law on Protection against Natural Disasters must be carried out. As I am aware, it is today that the Ministry of Defence has drawn up its first decisions in this regard and the government will be able to take note of Thursday's first damage assessments and identify further measures, including the basis for the use of this special reserve. In addition to this reserve of five million, as mentioned earlier, it is in the balance sheet of the budget or already in the adopted budget provided for 70 million funding for interventions or for investment interventions on watercourses. These are also funds intended or to be intended for measures to increase flood safety. And when I talk about the value of 70 million, I am talking about both the integral resources and the resources of the water fund and the European funds. But that's what's real to expect to be spent by the end of this year. Once again, contractions in individual budget users are not a result of limiting their consumption, limiting their consumption, but are a real assessment of their ability to spend by the end of the year according to the situation in which individual investment is located, given the circumstances under which individual ministries have to intervene, such as the Ministry of Labour, which we have already talked about a lot today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u107	Mr Dejan Levanič, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. He may have explained a few things briefly, because it is true that we are already talking about specific numbers, that we should also repeat this, that we will know what those real numbers are. Once again; when we discussed the number of unemployed before, it is necessary to say that the data we operate with is official data of the Slovenian Employment Institute. At this point, we are at 115 thousand unemployed, which today cannot be said to be commended; but we have begun to reduce unemployment and we have been structurally reducing it for some time. Many times, there was a criticism in this hall that there was little work to be done and that there were other areas to work on. Of course, because no one said it was from the results we put on the table, everything we've done so far. But in the short term, like our ministry and some others have already been used, we have come very quickly with some measures and have responded to the situation on the labour market and we have concrete results. And it's not true, as it was said, that we only solve things with certain subsidies or through public works. We are aware that this would be a waste of sand in the eyes, in order only to save the current unemployment or the people who have lost their jobs. If we look only at young people, when the leader of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group Mr Tanko said that there should be some innovations, if we are already talking on the other hand about the ZUJF and the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. Yes, innovation is the Youth Guarantee, which has been adopted in the European Union as one of the best measures of the five Member States. Of course, there must still be additional measures, economic growth, and what will bring long-term jobs. But in 2012, when the government of Janez Janša was in power, there was a youth unemployment leap of 10,000 by 10%; from 20,000 we jumped to 35,000 unemployed young people. Today this percentage is lower. We're at about 25 grand. At the expense of the Youth Guarantee measures, we have hired 10,000 young people, of which only a thousand 400 are at the expense of public works; 4 000 are at the expense of subsidies for employers, not in the public sector, as has been said. In the private sector, young people are employed there today. If you remember, in this National Assembly we presented the first of the measures concerning the employment of young people, which is the exemption to pay employers' contributions if they hire a young person for an indefinite period of time. We have been very criticised by the Slovenian Democratic Party that this is not the right measure for the employment of young people. In the first two cities the result was only 200 jobs for an indefinite period of time. Today, some 3,000 young people have been employed by this measure indefinitely. That is why we are coming very soon to the National Assembly also with the proposal to extend the measure because it is in force by the end of this year. On our part, you will never hear only praises and flags attached to the results, but if you take a realistic look and look at the rebalancing of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs, which currently includes such an active employment policy, the conditions in the labour market, the creation of some jobs, although the priorities are not called for this because – you know, in economic work, the issue must run away to develop – but we help in some matters because it is simply necessary. Cooperation between ministries is crucial. And we're not just forced to work with subsidies. More importantly, the 91 million that the Ministry is returning to the budget are the result of the fact that we no longer have so many unemployed people in need of monetary compensation. For 48 million, there are fewer of these funds that have evolved into specific jobs. This data shows that what the leader of the SDS Group, Mr Jože Tanko, has said is absolutely not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u109	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. As we were informed by the Government and what is evident from the reports of ministries and individual working bodies, adjustments to the budget, with a foreign so-called balance, were needed; this means that we are trying to balance, to balance the 2014 budget. Is this a finding act, as Mr Pogačnik said, whether it is a final bill – I do not think it matters here. Of course, we would all be extremely happy not to have to do this, at least not now, just before the end of the year. Many wonder whether this is necessary or not. I think it is necessary that this difference, which emerged during the course of this year – let me remind you that since June the budget was closed – should be regulated by internal redeployments. Was it then a bold act, or was it optimistic, I don't know, I don't want to judge. But I do know that we need to settle this issue so that the year can end accountingly and start a new one. On the part of the Government and the competent ministry, we have been assured that in the future the practice will not be as it has been before; and I seriously hope that this will not be the case. I don't know and I don't care how calculations and calculations have been made in the past, but it is clear and at the same time I appeal to the Government not to make the same mistakes in the future. But we're gonna have to pour ourselves some clean wine and stop fooling around. We must say clearly and loudly that this will no longer go forward. We cannot invariably owe ourselves and demand all the rights and benefits we have. It just doesn't work that way anymore. It is clear to us and also to us Members that we have lived well in the past. Some have already done so, some are now living well, but in fact the European banks, where we are heavily indebted, are demanding their own. And it's time to start saving wisely. I agree that not at all, but it is inevitable that the State will no longer bear all the obligations it has; and this excessive debt must be stopped. The question is where to get it from. I believe that, according to the individual ministries, they have certain proposals, probably some of them are very unpopular, which many do not want or want to hear. Unfortunately, I feel that we will have to cut into such moves — whether we want to or not. Perhaps we can also begin with Members to show by some responsible national action that some fundamental structural changes are needed. But not only structural changes, including changes in our heads, in thinking. If I go back to the balance sheet, I could say, at least as far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, as is evident from the government's specification, that there was an increase of 20 million euros from the integral resources. This is mainly about membership and contributions to international organisations, political diplomacy, diplomatic and consular representations, economic diplomacy and international assistance. Why this was not in the previous budget is difficult to say, but we must be aware that we have to settle our obligations so that we can be present in these organisations and have some of them. As far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, about 6 million funds were recovered from the balance and were probably used for the natural disasters to which we witnessed. We are in a big crossroads – on the one hand we want to achieve the Maastricht criteria, on the other hand we have obligations regarding membership in the European Union and other organisations. In fact, we will have to decide once and for all what we want and set clear priorities because achieving the objectives of the budgetary strategy and the stability programme are also key reasons for the rebalancing. Finally, we must not forget that the real losses in real estate taxes, unscheduled interest expenses, under-planned current transfers, have changed circumstances regarding the use of European funds, not to mention the amendment of the SDH Act and the financing of the SDH. The numbers are clear and I do not understand that, despite clear explanations by the Government, some of these numbers like to manipulate and read different numbers and data as they were given. Clearly, they've been turning the data as they please, and I don't think it matters at all. We need to look ahead, positive, because we are actually looking at a budget in the next year – this is 2015, where we will not be clouded with flowers and where smart steps will have to regulate not only the state of the spirit in Slovenia, but also the financial, economic and future, not repeat old mistakes and search for the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u111	There's someone else who wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, prepare the mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u112	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! In the introduction, I would like to repeat — and most likely again — the following facts will be heard. The proposed budget balance for 2014 does not constitute the budgetary policy of this Government. This is an almost universally well-known fact – correcting the unrealistic planned budget of the former government. The deficit in the state sector wants to be reduced, so the current government is in the position to ensure that this balance does not lead to further deficits. In other words, it has also been heard on committees, in particular on the Committee on the Financial and Monetary System, why the balance. Simply, this is a correction of the wrong assessment, the assessments at the time of the planned necessary resources for the operation of the country. It is not my intention to politicise the reasons that are objective and subjective; however, it is important for me to understand from the Government's conclusion that the implementation of the budget and the expectation by the end of 2014 in some areas is significantly different from the plans that are included in the adopted budget last year. What is the key objective of this government in the first part is to achieve a transparent statement of the expected revenue and expenditure of the state budget and the deficit of the state budget through this budget rebalancing. However, the second part, which represents a general or general one, is the strategic objective of the Government of Mir Cerar, and it is that we remain committed to gradually consolidating public finances and thus gradually reducing the deficit of the state budget. At the same time, I will repeat what I have heard several times. I believe that it is important for all citizens and citizens not to increase the tax burden on the economy and the population. On this occasion, however, only parts of the specific category of budget rebalancing – current transfers items, namely transfers to non-profit organisations and institutions, increase by 4.5% with the 2014 budget rebalancing. This means that charities, societies, cultural organisations and similar institutions implementing programmes in the public interest are somehow provided with the necessary means for their operation. He could still continue to state the need for this balance. I believe that many words have already been said today; but the current situation, which is the result of a series of circumstances in which the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Mir Cerar have been confronted, is a real realization that it is only a solution to the situation. We are all committed to finally bringing about the consolidation of public finances and that the country consumes only as much as it creates. Debt should not only go towards servicing government debt, but mainly towards investment investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u113	The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, get Mrs. Jelka Godec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Today, therefore, we are considering a budget rebalancing on which we are only accepting obligations until the end of this month. All commitments to be made in December will be settled from the 2015 budget. The need for a budget rebalancing is fully understandable if we are to ensure payment of the commitments made and at the same time achieve the target of a budget deficit of up to 4.3 gross social product. The question of where to take and where to distribute is always asked. Let me touch on the area of the Ministry of the Interior, which is a direct budgetary user and where there is still local self-government, NGOs and administrative units this year. With the rebalancing, the budget increases by almost 11 million to the entire ministry, and at the same time certain transfers are made within it, reducing the local self-government line by a million 572 thousand. However, this will not affect the operation of local communities for this purpose, as it is simply a transfer of payments in January, namely those obligations which the State has committed to promoting the integration of municipalities. The non-governmental organisation item increases by 930 000 to draw funds from the European Union in advance. It is also increased in the administrative unit line by a good 4 million. This is the obligation of the administrative units to pay compensation to the deleted. At the police station, the total increase is almost 12 million, i.e. 11 million 853 thousand for salaries, material costs and investments. Of all the above areas, due to the conditions of work, the police are the most underprivileged. According to the Ministry responsible, it has ensured that transfers of funds will in no way endanger human security and property. The police are doing very well right now, as the results show. By increasing the budget resources, they will be able to cover all commitments and also to ensure the smooth running of police tasks. However, these funds have only halted the trend of falling standards, but the development of the police is not yet ensured, which will be necessary in 2015. Indeed, there is no successful police force and prosecution without investing in human resources, equipment and, above all, training in the framework of international cooperation. And of course, this is what we all want, citizens and citizens, especially for the sake of our security and security of property, which Members will be following in the 2015 budget rebalancing. Well, not just that. Our expectations for 2015 are high. It is a worrying fact that we are actually spending more than we create. Dr. Križanič said earlier that we create a deficit, that in fact we create more and less use and, of course, we owe ourselves. So the real responsibility is to be in charge of current business, of our salaries, of social transfers, of pensions. There's a lot of anomalies in our system. The previous governments have already tried to stop and reverse the trend – and the burden is currently on this government. If I repeat Dr. Križanič, he said his vision and said, I think very competent, which is better known that it is not a problem in the public sector, that it is not a problem in school, in sports, but in some of the other two events that have happened in the past. But when we actually look at the structure of expenditure, we find that the largest share of expenditure falls on transfers to public institutions, schools, kindergartens, sports institutions, universities – as much as 19%. Second, the expenditure for PPIZ is 18%, while the total wage for the whole is 12% of the public sector. All this expenditure represents 50% of the expenditure. And we all know there's something wrong with these systems. But when we do anything, we find that we run into resistance, and that's what happened in the past. And I am sure that even at the moment that the Minister will embark on a wage system in the public sector, which is nonconsistent, and with which we all agree, there will be no union that will not resist the fact that changes are needed in their professional group. Everyone will claim to have too little to take and change with others, not with them. I fear that it will be the same when it tries to achieve efficiency by measuring in the public sector. It is very similar with public institutions when I said earlier that the largest share of expenditure is on their side. It has come to the public informally that the network is too large to demand integration or action – and we immediately see it as an attack on education as an attack on culture in the public eye. The attempt to introduce legislation in education, or to require teachers to be more effective, is blasphemous. Intervention into universities is an attack on their autonomy. As far as local communities are concerned, I quote what was said on the working body: "At the time of the outbreak of the crisis, and from 2008 until now, the municipalities have not borne the same burdens of the crisis. The country's revenues decreased to 9% at that time and the municipality's revenues increased by 8%. The number of employees continues to increase and has increased by 3.4% since the start of the crisis. The same is true of wages, but if it starts talking about local self-government, then it means attacking its autonomy. And I think it's similar in the health field when we touch agencies, offices and so on. Everything shows that attempts to eliminate anomalies are impossible; that we know rights while responsibility belongs to someone else. However, we expect responsibility for the situation to be established. In my mind, I have a responsibility in banks, tycoons, TES 6 and many other things that are hidden from the public. I think that the money is enough, but it needs to be properly distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u115	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the previous discussions, I have to take another call. I am pleased that you also agree with us in the SMC party that debt needs to be stopped and that the economy needs to be unloaded. It is true that now, with the rebalancing of November, we will not be raising taxes, obviously not — and we need not be comforted here. However, we are concerned about this 2015 sentence that the dynamics of certain payments of projects are transferred from 2014 to 2015. See, even in 2013 it was concluded that certain projects were to be financed in 2014; and now they are receiving conclusions that it would be financed in 2015. It doesn't say January. In 2015, the Council adopted When will that be? If 2014 was said in 2013, they are now receiving conclusions for 2015. This concerns people, it worries those who have large investments, it concerns municipalities that have invested in development and now continue with certain loans and so on. Then we wonder why the congregations are in debt. This is essentially a concern and here to throw sand in the eyes that everything is beautiful and right, transparency; at the same time, we do not know at all when, I find it rather irresponsible and unrealistic. To comfort in such a way that it will be in January; it will not, because it has been happening for two years. As for the employment of young people, unfortunately, the Secretary has already left, that is what he said. Cooperation between ministries is key. And since the Ministry of the Economy is not working and we are not growing in the economy, this Youth Guarantee will be questionable soon. For the Youth Guarantee employs in the economy, i.e. economic operators employ, but the question of how long will we have free seats at all so that we can implement the Youth Guarantee. Of course, in this case, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs is the most on the wallpaper right now, because it is the one that kind of put out the fire, because it has to hire young unemployed people. Once again, I commend this Youth Guarantee, I agree that young people need to be hired; but at the same time, I point out that things are happening in the field, that older people are forgiving, that families are forgiving, and that there is also a social bomb here when this part becomes that critical mass of the unemployed. The Secretary-General also said that public work should not be counted in the share when we say that we have increased employability. But at the same time, it says that through public works we employ the most. Public works are for one year, and then it's over. This person then becomes unemployed again, and this is just one more language on the scale to show at some point a reduction in unemployment. At the same time, I would like to ask the Secretary what his opinion is on volunteering for young people in the field of education. In education, traineeships are provided free of charge, while the Minister of Labour says that it is against doing such work, i.e. traineeships are free of charge. Why is that in the field of education? At the same time, I would like to ask the secretary-general – she said it was inappropriate to say that at the Ministry of Education, infrastructure is being reduced. I agree, yes, it's going up 2.6 million. I just wanted to ask you what kind of investment in education? Condoms, perhaps, or Planica, or what investment is increased by 2.6 million — where? We have high school, the school center of Šentjur, who's been asking for a gym, I think, for 50 years. Still children, high school students go a kilometer away for exercise or not at all – and you talk about how good it is to increase. Yes, it is – but where, for what purposes?Oh, my God! It is good to increase the infrastructure in education, but it is really important to ask in which areas, given that, as I said, some are still without gyms. In view of all that we have been talking about today, I think we have quite a few common points — that is, less debt — of a growing economy. I only hope that the words of the coalition will become reality for the second year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u117	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the General Part of the proposal for a rebalancing will be held tomorrow, 19th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11. 2014, in the context of the vote. We are moving on to the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving to the budget user 1611 – Ministry of Finance and debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting forward a sub-programme on the current budget reserve and on the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you, President, for your word. I think that today, as many as three quarters of this room is discussing in the same direction, this is how the revenue and expenditure of the previous government in almost all areas have been missed, many have been very missed. Then we see in the 2014 budget rebalancing, under the heading General Budget Reserve, where the amount of 50 million is reduced to 3 million euro. Since we talked about how things went wrong, I have a really strange sense of how the government — or one or the other — would know what would happen in the area of natural disasters. As we all know what has happened in the last 14 days in much of Slovenia, unfortunately we have been struck again by natural disasters, this time in the form of floods. I must say that I was personally appalled, although I am not coming from the flood areas this time, and I can speak calm news, so I am not rooting for myself or for my congregation; but it seems abnormal to me that out of 50 million, there is a total of €47 million in the general budget provision for natural disasters. However, since there have been more natural disasters this year, even yesterday the leader of the Mir Cerar Party's Group of Members said how we have witnessed the five major flood and natural disasters, how this is one of the main themes and so on, and how this government, unlike all other governments, will deal with this in concrete terms. I have to say that I have read twice, three times, the Magnography of the President of the Government, but I must say that, as we are used to it, we will obviously all have to get used to it – no concrete promise, just that the government will meet again on the subject of natural disasters and will begin to resolve the matter. Since I am from a congregation that has been flooded many times in the past, I must say that I have been most impressed with the memory of this phrase Who is quick to do so twice. This government obviously has another issue – we will not give it at all, we will postpone it to the following year; then, if God gives it or the Minister of Finance gives it, we may find somewhere to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. In short, with the amendment, we are not demagogos in any way, we are living, nor have we dedicated not a lot of resources, but those three million that we believe we could actually elevate them from the adoption of the budget rebalancing by the end of 2014 in order to tackle the recovery or this natural disaster recently, or perhaps some previous natural disaster. For, as I am aware, there are fierce battles between what to pay, who to pay, how to pay, and when to pay from the General Budget Reserve for Natural Disasters. In short, we also take it where it will not be known, in the field of justice. I think that the Ministry of Justice can give up the management of apartments, holiday units and garages so that they do not know a million and a half euros; those who have been flooded will have a million and a half million or three million more. That is why we appeal to all of you, including this commitment made yesterday by the President of the Government, to how quickly and effectively he will solve natural disasters; especially the last to support this amendment of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u119	A representative of the Government, state secretary of mag, has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. And I'll do it again. The reserve in the budget has two different items. One item is heading 4090 — General budget provision, which was planned in the adopted budget of 50 million and is reduced to 2 million by the budget rebalancing. The second, 4091, is the budget reserve for natural disasters and this was planned in the 2014 budget changes of 18 million 896 thousand and remains unchanged. I have already said several times today that there are still around 5 million available within this reserve for intervention measures in connection with these floods, and we will be able to allocate and spend them for the most urgent rehabilitation; as much as possible in terms of technical options, engineering, construction options, if you wish, even this year. Further actions are foreseen in the 2015 budget. Thus, an increase in the current budget reserve of 3 million — that is, the reserve used for unforeseen purposes, not for natural disasters, for other unforeseen purposes — is unnecessary. In addition, the proposed amendment reduces the funds collected as earmarked and used within the Ministry of Justice and must also be used on purpose. These are assets related to the management of apartments, holiday units and garage. Other funds to be taken, however, are funds for rents for public authorities and judicial authorities. We probably don't want any of the judicial authorities to be in office, nor do we want the lenders to carry out any forced executions on state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u121	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. If I understand you correctly, this year, the previous government or the current government, because they have committed €18.9 million in the same function, will spend €2.8 million on one item and on the other. I'm just wondering, what's the payout for a natural disaster so far? Last time we were with the Committee on Agriculture in the area of Pivka and Postojna, where the main topic was when and how it would pay for natural disasters. You don't pick up anywhere, people are waiting for money, and you say, because we're going to be in 2015. Really, I don't even care what line it comes with if it doesn't work any more. You won't give anything for a natural disaster. So all those promises made by the President of the Government, how he will urgently, intervene in solving these final floods — as if the previous ones were not — no more money. And you say that all things will be arranged, even for this twelve-year-old, and you are yet to return. I am really interested, Your Honor, in how you will explain this financial mathematics to all those waiting for payment and waiting for urgent intervention measures in the field.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u123	The Secretary of State has the floor, Mrs Mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the law — this special reserve for natural disasters — the reserve may be used for natural disasters and to remedy the consequences of natural disasters that have occurred during the calendar year to which the budget relates; or for those natural disasters that have occurred in the last two months of the previous year. However, in order to address the consequences of natural disasters over the past years, it is the responsibility of individual ministries to plan resources within the framework of their financial plans. You asked me about the drought in 2012. Of course, this 2012 drought reserve cannot be implemented from this point of view. For the natural disasters of this year, as far as the acorn was concerned, the resources from the reserve were already allocated to the ministries to pay them in accordance with their programmes. As regards the latest natural disaster, the latest flood, I mentioned in my previous intervention that the Ministry of Defence has today issued or prepared government material on which the government will conclude on Thursday and determine the deadlines in which the five million already mentioned can be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u125	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and discussion on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Report. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I just have a good minute. I said a lot on the board. This is therefore a means of maintaining local roads. The government has here in its explanation, where it rejects our amendment, a great deal of embarrassment, really much embarrassment, and clearly says that the funds are reduced. Of course, we understand or do not understand, because of the tightening of the public finances situation and that, according to the old tradition, this is my addition – according to the old tradition – to transfer part of the contractual obligations to 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, we have many roads, road sections that are actually deadly. Are we going to get rid of these roads for once, or are we going to let it all go to waste? Building local roads is certainly a priority for human security and, on the other hand, it is of great economic importance. What investor will come to your congregation if you don't have roads arranged? None. So there will be no economic investment, no investment in jobs in your village. Of course, the government on the other hand also says that we have not chosen the right source for these poor three million. Yes, the local communities have not been in debt, and therefore they are not guilty of paying so much interest, which repeatedly chokes us, constantly new and new debts. Of course, they are choking not only the economies, but also the whole country, the inhabitants and the inhabitants of this country. And we're just driving down the holed roads that are deadly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u127	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2330 – Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and discussion on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to increase the sub-programme on water management to earmark for this programme in 2014 by €2 million more money. Since the amendment proposal also needs to specify where from which item this money should be taken, we propose that this money be taken from the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. We know the situation today for the people affected by the floods. And every day we get new information about it, it wasn't done enough to properly arrange the landscape with the waters. There have been many cases, including in Ljubljana, even in Notranjska, when in fact some services have been denied by some ministries so that today people, houses, property underwater. And the undeniable fact is that, for a long time because of various reasons – administrative, bureaucratic, whatever – we have not done enough, we should start working immediately in the field of water regulation. Of course, this can be done immediately, as many programmes have been able to do; so today, too, in accordance with Slovenian legislation, also in accordance with legislation relating to public procurement, to start working immediately. This is why we propose that an additional EUR 2 million be allocated for water management already in 2014. Where do we get it? We'll take it from the Geodetic Authority. I think that after the fiasco of the real estate law, when the value of the real estate was assessed on the basis of the mass valuation of the property by the Geodetic Authority, the mania of this money to this institution will in fact be nothing. They did the evaluation, people got information about the real estate valuation. We know what the valuations were; we know how different there were between the same properties. After all, we also know how the assets or property of the state authorities have been assessed, as also reflected in the 2013 final budget account, which we have considered on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, where certain non-realitys have been identified as substantive errors. We know that today the whole mass valuation of real estate is at stake — even because the Constitutional Court has ruled that such a method is not the most appropriate or should be improved. Last but not least, we also need the final account of the Geodetic Authority in connection with the mass valuation of real estates in 2013 and 2014. I believe that this manna of two million to the Geodetic Authority will represent nothing. But much more so for those who will have — because they do not know — many of them will eventually have dry houses and will have dry dwellings.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u129	Anybody else want to discuss this? I give the floor to a representative of the government, State Secretary Mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I would like to clarify the Government's position on the proposed amendment. The amendment government doesn't support it. On the item Sustainable water use and water management, or on the sub-item Water management, €54.9 million is provided in the adopted budget. The implementation of this item by the end of 9 November of this year is €38.22 million and we increase this €54.9 million by €1 million – to a good €56 million. Thus, by the end of this year, for the last two months approximately 20 million additional funds have been made available to pay for activities already under way in the field of water management and can also be financed for the purposes mentioned by the amendment's proponents. In addition, I would like to point out that, regardless of what we think about the mass valuation of property, the project should be continued or renovated, in line with what the Constitutional Court has established. The reduction of funds for the Geodetic Administration by two million means a reduction of 10% in the assets of this institution. It is hard to imagine how the Geodetic Authority could save 10% of its costs within two months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u131	I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare the mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Commenting on what has been said: 38 million have been spent, it remains, as I understand it, 20 million or 16 million, however; and why it was used so little. It is precisely because there are so many bureaucratic and administrative obstacles that these resources cannot actually be spent. This is what we are convinced of daily by people who are flooded. And I don't understand why we shouldn't speed up this process and why we shouldn't speed it up so we can get more water done this year. Of course we'd need two million more to do that. I don't think that would be a big deal for this budget, for this government, and for people, it would be a big deal. I think that it would also be in some way a recognition or some kind of sign of goodwill – and it would have happened for the budget nothing, not for the coalition anything; and for people probably something more and something good. Since it has already been mentioned with regard to the Geodetic Authority, this is not the subject of this meeting, but it is also a matter of this budget, because the Geodetic Administration is the user of the budget. All funds will have to be summed up, which have been spent on mass property valuation, probably since 1992 onwards, when I think 1992 or 1993 has received the Geodetic Authority or the competent ministry first money from the World Bank for mass property valuation. For 22 years, ladies and gentlemen, and for 22 years, the budget provided additional funds, extra funds for the fiasco, which was made by mass valuation of real estate and by virtue of the Real Estate Tax Act. And before we give any extra money to the Geodetic Authority, we need to look at how this money was actually used. Probably without a smile on his lips, but it's probably very sad that the project, which lasted more than 20 years, ended the way it ended. I think that without these two million, the Geodetic Authority will be able to survive with ease, says 10%. After all, money was given from education to studying American real estate assessment standards, which were also introduced for Europe, not only for Europe, but also for Slovenia. There was probably too much exaggeration here, so I think this money will be used more effectively if we use it for water and water management in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u133	The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we used to talk a lot about where we took everything in this budget, I would say that we didn't take it at all, because it was something that happened until today or a month ago. However, I would mention this budgetary user, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, now divided into two ministries, where their budgetary spending has increased. We added an additional 64 million to this budgetary user, and of this, we added 80 million to the environmental protection and infrastructure item. So here, ladies and gentlemen, we have added money, and this is what we are talking about – about floods, about the environment. However, I would remind the gathered representatives of this national assembly that we speak so much about water and how we do not know how to deal with it and what we have done in the past. Yes, I agree, just in 2014, this year we took the water management resources with a special law and made them available to someone else. And it wasn't for 2 million, or 10 million, but it was, if I'm not mistaken, over 100 million. In essence, I support this amendment in the sense that we need to allocate more resources to water and environment management. But about two million now to judge — or take two million there — and give two million now that we have given them 80 — is very difficult. I personally trust the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to assess how much it will spend this year and how much it will have to spend. In this debate, I would also like to refer to the next amendment, because I will not apply, to the Waste Water Management, where we have also added a lot of money this year from the original budget. And in this debate, I simply turn in general to the fact that today we are discussing how bad it is to have a balance. You know, serious companies have quarterly rebalancies, and very serious companies have monthly rebalancies, and they keep monitoring their costs, revenues, expenditure, so in November, at the end of the year, they don't have to move millions of things to the left and right. And in the following year, I would also like to see the National Assembly, as well as the Government, monitor the budget with all commitment, perhaps consider it more than once – a rebalancing. For the fact that the rebalancing is happening both in businesses and in countries is nothing special, the result is that our external environment is greatly changing. And with a changing environment, everyone has to be willing to adapt. What we hear today is really the opposite of what we think. One is highly privatised and banks need to be privatised. On the other hand, on the right I hear words that take me for a really different time than that we, Slovenia, live somewhere alone and we are not in any relationship, nor in the community. The best thing to do is to kill the carts, fence ourselves and do nothing else; we go to the banks and say – you know what, we owe you, but we won't return that money. You can't do that. In previous times, there was only a forecast of peace and a forecast of war between the two countries. But that is not the case today; we are in a relationship today; we need to talk today; especially if we owe someone something. Yeah, I'm looking forward to constructive cooperation with my right and my left half, but I don't think that's how this debate goes today. This government has not blamed this balance, let us pour pure wine. This government has only identified it in order to better prepare the next budget. Of course, I support this one, if that's what we can call it, a rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u135	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and continuing. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme on waste water management and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, chairman. A weak two years ago, the government allowed the municipalities to apply for additional projects with additional spending rights after a delay in drawing up funds. This sought to ensure that all funds were exhausted by the end of the period. Most of these additional projects were in the field of environmental protection. These are waste water extraction and treatment projects and drinking water supply projects. These are 11 environmental projects prepared by the municipalities, with all the permits and no sources of funding provided. In June, the government even ordered the municipalities to start carrying out these projects with their own resources, which is contrary to the applicable legislation, since the municipalities — until they have a closed financial structure and without a known source of funding — cannot enter into contracts. This, of course, represents a great financial risk for the municipality, and with this amendment, we want to provide minimum funds. It is 3.5 million to start funding for these 11 environmental projects in 34 municipalities with a total value of €236 million. These are projects that need to be financed in any case, as these are urgent projects that provide healthy drinking water for people — about half a million people. The courts and prosecutors do not achieve the desired efficiency and results, so the amendment reduces their funds slightly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2430 – Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Before the floods, we were reached by another sting, a stomach that has not been repaired to this day. This is how state bureaucracy works, so probably municipal bureaucracy works, so of course forest care also works. In short, there's still no repair damage from the natural disaster, which is a gland that actually hurt us a few months ago. Not only us, but it also affected a number of people who suffered material harm. One of the companies that has suffered a very large amount of material damage is the railway economy, so we propose that an additional million euros be provided for the Investment in Railway Infrastructure in the 2014 budget; this is to be taken into account in the implementation of protocol events. Also in this proposal, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that taking away money for protocol matters and events will not affect the functioning of the country. We also believe that, in essence, this will not happen in the country in any way that would make the situation of citizens and citizens worse. Maybe there'll be a little less free questions on the new year, and that's all. And on the other hand, of course, there is a considerable benefit when we do something good and repair the damage caused by the natural grip of the acorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I conclude the debate at this point. We are moving to an accounting user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and discussion on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Family benefits and parental benefits and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing will be held tomorrow, 19th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11th, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place tomorrow, 19th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11. 2014, in the context of the vote. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? No, then I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Balance of Budgets will take place in full accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 19. 11th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2014 and 2015, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. State Secretary Mag. Matthew the Vranic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a law in which all the details and specificities relating to the implementation of the budget of a given year must be regulated. The proposed law, which is substantively linked to the proposal for the 2014 budget rebalancing on which we have just concluded the debate, regulates the following content. A corrective action shall be carried out by the Court of Auditors to ensure that the public financial revenues collected on the last working day of the year are properly and in a coordinated manner recorded both in the financial management supervisor’s business books and in the recipients of funds which are normally four public funds. The payment deadline for the payment of interest on money at Banka Slovenije is reduced, taking into account the European Central Bank’s direction on the payment deadline for so-called negative interest. The possibility of prepayments to cover the initial costs of the bankruptcy procedure in cases where the introduction of the bankruptcy procedure is proposed by the budgetary user. The assumption of a premium to cover the initial costs of bankruptcy proceedings is a procedural assumption for its initiation. The proposal to introduce bankruptcy proceedings in the event that the advance is not based has the character of an incomplete application. However, the deadline of 15 days for setting up the advance or remedying the shortcomings of the proposal is laid down in the law. The legal deadlines are not extended, which is why the courts may reject the application for bankruptcy proceedings if the advance is not paid. The effectiveness of the measures by which State authorities require the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings is therefore questioned. The 15-day deadline for the submission of applications for reimbursement of funds for projects financed from the European Cohesion Policy is also set for the 2007-2013 programming period. Furthermore, the maximum possible extent of the country's indebtedness for the implementation of the 2014 budget is changing, taking into account the changes in all three national budget balances included in the 2014 budget balance. It is specified that direct budget users do not need to forward new baselines for the preparation of budget indirect user financial plans and that these latter – indirect budget users – do not need to prepare changes in financial and human resources plans, which means an important administrative simplification for budgetary users. However, it is exclusively linked to this time's budget rebalancing. Since the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on the implementation of the budgets for 2014 and 2015 are essential for the smooth implementation of the national budget balance this year, I propose that the National Assembly's law submitted in both the second and third readings be adopted in the text as determined by the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u141	Ma'am, thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Urska Ban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u142	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 7th urgent session. 11. Considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, within its powers, gives specific warnings to Articles 1, 3, 4 and 6 of the text submitted. The Commission’s opinion on the supervision of public finances as an interested working body and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance was also presented. Qualified applicants tabled amendments to the proposal; three coalition SMC, Desus and SD groups tabled amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 6 and 6 for the new two Articles, 6a and 6b, the legislative proposal. The amendment was also tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, under Article 5 of the legislative proposal. In the context of the presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that the comments made in the written opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments of the three coalition groups. In the debate, a number of questions were raised by the discussers regarding the increase in the amount of additional State debt, which relates to Article 5 of the novel, to which the SDS Group has also tabled an amendment which foresees an increase in the maximum level of indebtedness – with a view to halting the debt trend. However, further clarifications were required to increase as foreseen in the text. It follows from the explanations provided by the representative of the Government, among other things, that an increase of EUR 1 billion 74 million is foreseen in the possibility of borrowing the country, as set out in Article 5 of the amendment in question, is calculated on the basis of a summary of several parallel financial basic parameters resulting from the balance sheet presented. The following explained to the Committee the exact effects of the key financial parameters resulting from the A, B and C balance sheet that the procedure presented was carried out in accordance with the financing programme under the Public Finance Act; the possible reduction of the amount envisaged in this Act would constitute a discrepancy between the law on enforcement and the rebalancing, in particular the fact that a certain part of the budget balance presented could not be implemented. At the same time, the proposed increase in the amount of State indebtedness does not mean that by the end of this year we will be in charge of an additional billion, but that part of the commitment – which has already been implemented and originally planned as pre-financing for the following year – will be considered as an obligation for the needs of 2014 and the account situation will increase. Since the positive situation in the account actually ensures the normal liquidity of the financing of the budget in the following year, taking into account the situation so far, it will be prudent to make pre-financing for commitments also next year. This can enable us to be indebted at a time when, according to the Ministry's expert assessment, the market situation is favourable. In the manner described, all countries work; in the first place, those in a similar position to that of Slovenia. At the time of its consideration, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4 and 6, and the proposal for a new Article 6a and 6b of the legislative proposal. The amendment committee of the SDS Group did not adopt Article 5 of the legislative proposal. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is the Group of Members of the United Left, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you, presidents; all present and present! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 is part of the Government's budgetary plan, the essential part of which is the rebalancing. In our view, the additional austerity measures foreseen by the balance sheet were not necessary and would be harmful for some groups, depending on the budget. Taking into account the positive macroeconomic indicators and the change in the political situation in the European Union, it would be more reasonable to show a slightly larger public financial deficit than to cut expenditure blindly. Since we will not support the proposal for a rebalancing, we will not support the proposed amendments to the 2014 and 2015 Budget Implementation Act. While there are no major comments on the content solutions, paragraphs 2 and 4 which increase the liquidity of the treasury are acceptable to us. We note, however, that the new Article 28a will cause great problems for a large number of recipients of European funds. We expect that an exception will often be applied from the 15-day deadline for submitting requests for reimbursement, which means that at the end of the 28-a effects of Article 28 will be less than the government foresees. With regard to Article 1, the question is raised as to whether it would not make sense for this measure to wait a little longer, at least for the following year. This year 2015 will be more important than this year because the government intends to reduce the deficit below three percent. This operation will increase the revenue of this year's financial year, but not the next one, which would make more sense. In fact, this year's revenue will be counted as income on day 31. 12. 2013 as revenue at 31. This year's 12th. Of course, this financial supplement will not be available in 2015. Finally, I must say that the United Left opposes those who are spreading panic over the increase in the level of debt permitted. The debt price is low, but the situation may change due to a possible recession in Europe, so it makes sense to create a certain liquidity reserve. The main political issue is thus not the height of public debt, but how funds are used. Since our views differ significantly from that of the government, we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At the time of the adoption of the Law on the implementation of the budgets for 2014 and 2015 in the New Slovenia Group, we drew attention to the poor public financial picture of the country in the financial years 2014 and 2015, as expenditure is significantly above budget revenues in both financial years. Every year, the public deficit has to be covered again with new debts. The current law has planned a permissible debt of almost 5 billion for this year and 2.7 billion for the following year, which is in 2015. In our New Slovenia Group, we have already voiced the fear that this year's debt will be planned, although at a level of 5 billion, unfortunately too low – so poorly planned. It turns out, unfortunately, our forecasts of under-planned borrowing are correct. With today's amendment to the 2014 and 2015 Budget Implementation Act, the limit of permissible debt increases further by an additional billion per year, up to €6 billion. Most of the planned borrowing was for the recapitalisation of state banks, namely Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Nova Kredittne banka Maribor and Abanke. We cannot pass the fact that despite the recapitalisation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor, both banks have not undergone the stress tests carried out this year by the European Central Bank. Although the Bank of Slovenia guarantees that the recapitalisation of both banks with tax money will not be necessary, we ask ourselves in our parliamentary group what is the governance of both banks and how effective control of them is. It is clear, however, that the privatisation process of both banks, NLB and NKBM is urgently needed – and this will be immediately – otherwise it will be necessary to re-screw the bank hole in the following year. Let me point out here that, as of 4 November this year, we have additional supervision of system banks by the ECB. Among these banks are NLB and NKBM. And we are already warning that there will be no redundancies in this control and that the capital adequacy of the banks will certainly be more current, so to speak, more stringent than ever. This year, two months ago, we received a new government, exactly two months ago, which, according to the coalition contract — at least until now — does not exactly give us the hope of taking systemic measures to consolidate public finances. We are only listening to how much it will be necessary to cut public servants' salaries again next year; we are not hearing anything about how to reform the public administration in order to provide effective services to the economy and citizens, how to optimize public administration business processes, how to manage state property more effectively. Above all, there is much written about the planning of additional tax burdens in the following financial year – from the increase in financial transactions tax, the introduction of real estate tax, the introduction of sweet drinks tax and so on. These are again, in our opinion, merely fire-fighting measures that delay the necessity to adopt and implement the necessary reforms in the future and consequently prolong the public financial crisis. Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party will be presented by mag. Claudius Marquez.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. I would like to present the position of the Mir Cerar Party. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, EPA 123-VII, provides mainly technical corrections to the law, and I would like to stress this, which will enable the implementation of the budget balance for 2014. The amendments are defined in the six provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015; they will have an impact on the reduction of certain expenditure or merely provide an appropriate legal basis for the smooth implementation of the budget adopted, which I think is very important and we aim to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. The changes prepared are directly linked to the bill and represent the complete completion of the proposal for a rebalancing this year. At the Mir Cerar Party, we are aware that it was necessary and necessary to prepare a budget balance, as we have said several times in this place today and have communicated to the general public. The related law is mainly due to the unrealistic planning of budgetary commitments and, in order to ensure transparency in the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we have also adopted and supported it. As the Secretary of State has already said to my colleagues, the bill mainly includes some technical changes and individual content that are directly linked to the budget's rebalancing. We would not stop here in more detail – on these six provisions, because we have heard and defined them many times today. It is essential that we are aware that this is a matter of technical change, of the removal of administrative barriers and, in particular, of the smooth implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. For all of this – and once again, I stress that these are mainly technical amendments to the law that will enable the implementation of the 2014 budget balance – will be supported by the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar's proposal for the implementation of the 2014 and 2015 budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets does not deal with technical matters, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party. A debt of 1 billion and 75 million is not a technical matter. This is a content matter, it is a confirmation, as it appears, of what has already happened, that the state, the ministry, the government – the former, the present one – has already committed itself for 1 billion and 75 million more. Here it is typical that the Secretary of State did not mention this number when she explained this law; but it is the fact that the state of Slovenia in 2014 – will or will, I do not know, wait for the international markets – be in charge of almost 6 billion, ladies and gentlemen. For almost 6 billion and 1 billion and 75 million more than planned in the 2014 budget. And it's not a technical issue, especially if we know how much interest will have to be paid for just those billions that you're changing here in one way or another. Of course, it is necessary to know that the law on the implementation of budgets is always the law where so-called technical matters or so-called little things go, which means extraordinary effects for citizens and citizens; also here, because it gives the government what it can owe in 2014. I don't know when we'll be in debt. We still have a month; 20. 12. The stock markets close, Christmas holidays begin all over Europe and the world. With €3.4 billion in account today, as explained by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. That is how much the Government of Mira Cerar has in the account and, as explained, it needs this for security to pay off principals and debts safely; about an annual amount of principal – this is now or 1.9 billion, as mentioned on the Finance Committee, or 2 billion 253 million, as written in the position or response of the Ministry of Finance to the question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the Slovenian Democratic Party is very determined. We are against additional debt; and we do not know how this will be done technically within one month. Or it may be that everything is already in charge of this government – but here is the responsibility of the government of Mira Cerar, and this is not about the former government – will simply fuel one billion more debt. This isn't about just changing things with the actual situation. If the reality is that the government is in charge of a billion more, then it has committed itself without a legal basis. It can be accounted for by 4 billion 800, it cannot be charged by 5 billion 900, as it is now proposed – or we are doing it backwards. However, ladies and gentlemen, without the Slovenian Democratic Party, because she is a responsible party and will not be in debt and throw billions and millions of dollars at the same time; especially those who will not be paid by this generation, but by future generations! For this reason, we will strongly oppose in the Slovenian Democratic Party such laws and solutions that are detrimental to citizens and citizens, which in fact mean that some illegal situation can also be legalised. Here I would like to have an actual explanation of whether we are already in charge of this amount – over 4 billion 800, and now we are changing it to 5 billion 900. I'm asking for an explanation. And regardless of the reasons, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will vote against the law on the implementation of budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl represents the position of the party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u152	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to give you briefly the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. We have just concluded our debate on the 2014 budget rebalancing. It is quite common for the budgetary debate to continue with the debate on the Law on the implementation of the budget. The two acts are directly linked and the treatment must coincide, since otherwise it is not possible to implement the planned financial expenditure. Thus, the ZIPro is an implementing procedural act which prescribes the implementation of the budget. By adopting this novel, which we will unanimously support in the Desus Group, we will enable the current and smooth implementation of the 2014 budget, or the rebalancing that has just been considered, and thus the smooth implementation of the tasks and the achievement of the objectives that have been set. The content itself, however, I would not like to repeat the main solutions that it includes at this point, so the content itself for our Group of Members is not disputed. In view of the fact that the country's budget rebalancing for 2014 is expected to be in place only a good month before the end of the financial year, it may be necessary to avoid administrative obstacles that, on the basis of the adopted national budget rebalancing, indirect budgetary users do not need to forward new baselines and that indirect budget users do not need to prepare changes in the financial and human resources plans under the terms of the ZIPRO. All comments also made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly shall be taken into account by amendments adopted at the Saturday-long meeting of the Committee on Finance. Here Members and Members of the Desus Group do not see any reservations in order not to vote in favour of this novel. At the same time, let me just use a sentence or two as a warning in the preparation of the next novel ZIPRO, which we will receive when we prepare the 2015 budget rebalancing. In the fact that ZIPRO is only a procedural implementing regulation, we have witnessed many times in the past the interference of this law with the substantive provisions of individual laws. Too many times, especially in recent years, this law has interfered with the content of rights. This is not right and it was usually a contraction or marriage just before labor and without some in-depth discussion. Let me mention only some: height of RTV contribution, VAT level, amount of pension regression, harmonisation of pensions and so on. I would like to remind the Government, however, that the content of the rights and obligations of the materials of the individual material rules governing these rights and obligations is not the Law on the implementation of the budget. Therefore, any substantive changes to the rights and obligations in the legislative procedure should be made independently; and the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets should preserve the nature of the so-called implementing regulation. As for the current acts – the rebalancing for 2014 and the novels of the Budget Implementation Act – although they are probably not ideal, they are, in our opinion, a compromise between the desired and possible or some optimism in the given circumstances. Once again, ZIPRO will receive the support of the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Franz the Crusader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u154	Your Honor! The new Law on the implementation of the budgets for 2014 and 2015 contains solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the budget or the 2014 budget rebalancing, which we expect to be confirmed by tomorrow's vote. The proposal for a novel provides, inter alia, that the financial management funds to be paid on the last day of the calendar year allocated in the first two working days of the new year shall be regarded as the income of the previous budget period. It is about technology, but it is important for this year's outcome. Furthermore, a shorter deadline for payments for interest on money at Banka Slovenije is expected. The possibility of prepayments to cover the initial costs of bankruptcy proceedings is also specified. From a time-consuming point of view, when the rebalancing is adopted just before the end of the year, it is understandable that indirect budget users do not need to develop new baselines and prepare changes to the financial and human resources plans, to which they are bound by law when determining the country's budget. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has opened a broader discussion on the problem of debt. It was launched by a proposal to amend the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which increases the debt limit in 2014 by about €1 billion and €74 million. In the Group of Social Democrats, we understand that the lack of acceptance of this proposal would constitute a discrepancy between the balance and the Law on the implementation of the budget. And this would jeopardise the implementation of the balance and threaten the normal course of social reproduction in Slovenia, given the importance the public sector has in the functioning of the Slovenian national economy. It is important to take into account the fact that the interest rates at which Slovenia is indebted reach the lowest level so far. For this reason, the Social Democrats agree with the Ministry of Finance's assessment that, given the favourable situation in the financial markets, it is appropriate to make pre-financing of commitments in the following year. In principle, it is appropriate to act as a good master to ensure that money is provided when it is relatively cheap. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. At the same time, we express our expectation that the government or the competent ministry will ensure that the funds in the account are properly profitable, the amount of which the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy was informed at the Saturday session. We are talking about 3.4 billion euro of liquidity. It should be borne in mind that these assets, which Slovenia has predominantly in banks, are even more important if we compare the increase in debt with the increase in deficits in the post-2008 period. Appropriate placement of these funds is crucial for the normal functioning of the Slovenian public sector. But it was inevitable — and I must say this as a former finance minister — because in this crisis it has proved that each Member State cares for itself. We have not introduced Eurobonds; but those countries that had sufficiently strong banks have taken care of their economy in particular. Banks even pulled money from the edge where they used to put it. We have also received this process. Now that this problem is being remedied, we have even been faced with the demand that banks and some key infrastructure companies do not privatise – because it is not privatisation – but sell. Let's see how one bank sells quickly now – it's not a sale, it's a sale. So the loss from 800 million to 300 is the loss of 600 million euros, which will go to zero. Allowing such processes is the naivety that history will look at with a certain critical distance, not with a smile. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We are proposing an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to reduce the time already proposed by the Government further. For the first time since this is the year 2014 and, of course, it is essential that as many resources as possible be drawn up, I am talking about European funds to finance projects already under way, as well as those already under way in the 2007-2013 programming period. This would increase the actual effectiveness of the functioning of the state administration. We believe that this amendment is for the benefit of drawing and also for the benefit of investing in Slovenia, which is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate article 6a and the amendment of the Social Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? [[advertising from the hall]] I apologize – Article 6a of the Slovenian Democratic Party. No interest, thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 6b and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided by the assembly meeting tomorrow, 19. 11th, in the framework of the votes. With this, I interrupt the 3rd item of the agenda and also interrupt the 2nd meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
