ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. In our midst, I welcome the President of the State, Mr Borut Pahor and the President of the National Assembly, Mr Janko Webra. Well, hello. / applause/ / anthem/ I give the floor to the distinguished President of the National Assembly, Mr Janko Webr. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, honourable Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to talk you into it at the end of the VI. the mandate of the National Assembly. The mandate expires earlier, as set out in the Constitution, which says that we have been working in very difficult situations, which were largely dictated by both economic and financial conditions, but which have arisen in the world, not in Slovenia, we must stress this, but of course we have also been an integral part of this event in Slovenia. And the measures that had to be taken in the National Assembly were very important for us to be able to manage this particular area. On this occasion, I would particularly like to thank the Members and Members of Parliament for their extraordinary cooperation, which is now due to expire today. We have reached a consensus both between the opposition and the coalition, so that we can change the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in two key points, and we have made an important decision in the international field when we unanimously ratified the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. I think we have made an important mark with this action in the history of Parliamentarianism in Slovenia. In my opinion, this will also mark, to the greatest extent, the mandate that we are running out of. For my view that we have been able to work successfully, it is also a great credit to the President, so I thank him, and at the same time we both thank him for everything that has been adopted in the National Assembly, because many difficult proposals have been made by the President of the Republic to accept the National Assembly and all proposals have been adopted. This is also something that will certainly remain as an important milestone or achievement in the functioning of the National Assembly. At the conclusion of my speech, let me also thank all my fellow Members and co-workers at the National Assembly for their assistance in the work of the National Assembly, especially the Cabinet, who took care that I myself, I hope, have done well enough to serve as the National Assembly. Once again, thank you for all your help and also a new reference to the great success of the work we are entering today. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u3	I thank the distinguished Mr Janko Webr, President of the National Assembly, for his words. Thank you very much. I begin the 1st meeting of the National Assembly, convened by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution of Slovenia, who will now address the National Assembly. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Please accept my sincere congratulations on your election. As usual, I should probably add to the desire to do our best together. But for a long time now, this time is no longer normal, so it comes to mind Churchill. Our best efforts are no longer enough. It's time to do the right thing. We have exhausted all other options. High house, after all, the crisis seems to be overwhelming. This encourages us, us, and the people we represent. But we don't make mistakes, we don't think naively that's going to happen anyway. No! No! It will only happen in one case — if we do the right thing together. After five years of crisis and more now, perhaps more than ever, it seems that, despite different, even very different views on what and how to do, we know what it is. It is a package of strategic and practical measures to modernise our society and the country. And most importantly, perhaps never so far has the political will to do this right thing been as decisive and possible for success as it is now. On the one hand, this is good, the solution to the crisis and the overall social recovery of our country is now the most dependent on ourselves. On the other hand, if we fail to succeed, we will have no excuses to point to others. And that last crumb of trust between the people left behind will be lost. Therefore, we cannot afford practically failure in this mandate. Together with you, I wish that over time, after a good old Slovenian habit, we could argue more about who is more responsible for our success than we are to argue about who is more guilty that we are not. Dear Members and Members! We are at risk of a general political atmosphere for the success of this mandate. We will strengthen our trust in each other or deepen our situation and judgment — that is our decision. No one can force her on us. We are the master of this decision. If a constructive political atmosphere prevails, difficult problems will also be easier to solve. The conditions of all the successes that people expect of us are fundamental: tolerance, mutual respect and trust. In this sense, because of the differences between us and the National Assembly, we are obliged to look out for each other for these differences. Disrespect for one another means disrespect for all of us. Dear Members and Members, let us keep an eye on the great vision, follow them, but at the same time watch for all human trifling. We know from experience that Slovenians are capable of amazing feats when we encourage each other. This applies especially to the atmosphere of working in this high house. The political and other differences between us are not a problem, which is why this Parliament is. The problem is that if you can't live with them or live with them with important things, you really can't do important things for all people, or you can't go beyond the common good. Let me finish, honourable Members and Members. I think most of us hope there's finally a light at the end of the tunnel. So this is not just a moment to do our best, but to do the right thing. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament, President! To this high house, which will decide in the next term the fate of this and the next generation, I want much wisdom, much patience, much will to seek common ground, understanding for differences that are insurmountable and all the determination to move problems into a solution and give our people not only in this generation, but also our children the hope for the future. This option exists, let's take advantage of it. I wish you good luck with that. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u5	I thank the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, for his words and thank you, Mr President, for honouring the National Assembly with your presence. Thank you very much. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Luka Mesec. The President of the State Election Commission, Anton Gasper Frantar and the Director of the State Election Commission, Dušan Vukko, are invited to attend. I welcome all those present once again! I will be assisted by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Mrs Mojca Prelešnik, and by the Deputy Secretary-General, Mrs Jerneja Bergoč. We are moving on to the agenda for the first meeting of the National Assembly. The draft agenda shall be drawn up in accordance with Article 10, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. You received it by letter dated 28 July 2014. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and members of the national communities have set out the following draft agenda: 1. Appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Electoral Commission, 2. Confirmation of the terms of office of Members of the National Assembly and 3. Elections of the President of the National Assembly. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. So, we're moving on to a decision. I ask all present Members and Members to insert cards in the voting devices and check their operation by making the orange light on the right hand side of the card inserted. I think everything is fine, so we can get to the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the agenda has been unanimously adopted. We're moving on to one. On the agenda, this is the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Management-voluntary Commission. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and members of the national communities were appointed at the meeting on 28 July 2014 to appoint the President of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission to the SMC Group, the Mir Cerar Party and the Vice-President to the DeSUS Group, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The temporary head of the SMC Group, Mir Cerar Party, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer, informed that Dr Mitjo Horvata had presented the Commission as chairman. The temporary head of the DeSUS Group, Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Karl Viktor Erjavec proposes Ivan Hrška as Vice-President. You have received a motion for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Commission on Elections. Mr. Tanko, would you like to proceed with the procedure? Please, Mr. Tanko, has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Good-bye to all of you! I think it is right to clarify at least the matters relating to the composition of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. In fact, on the proposal or on the cut set out at this preparatory meeting convened by the President of the National Assembly, Mr Weber, you have appointed four seats for us in the Mandate-Electorial Commission. At this preparatory session, we have proposed that the parties represented in this call by the National Assembly sign a commitment to confirm or set mandates, namely that all mandates be set out in the package. And as point 2 of this commitment, none of the members of this group will initiate or support subsequent procedures for the removal of the Member's mandate. We have set a deadline until Wednesday at 12 p.m. for the parliamentary groups represented in this call by the National Assembly to make a statement. None of the parliamentary groups signed this undertaking, and as a result we have not proposed any member to the Mandate-Election Commission. 7. Article 7 of the Law on Members in the second paragraph provides that Members or representatives of all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly shall be represented in the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Given that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has not proposed four members to the Mandate-Election Commission, we propose that you deliver to us before the meeting a written opinion on the interpretation of this provision of the Law on Members before the meeting. For I am of the opinion that this moment the conditions regarding the representation of all parliamentary groups in the Mandate-Election Commission are not met. I also propose that, until this opinion is absent, the session should be suspended and that you should then set 45 minutes for the examination of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service after the opinion has been divided into the House of Members of the National Assembly. I propose that, in order to avoid any further complications in carrying out the procedure for the appointment of the Mandate-Election Commission and the confirmation of mandates and subsequent electoral procedures, we be given the right opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service before the proceedings begin at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. I do not think that it is necessary to request the opinion of the PSC now, but to follow the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, of course, the Law on Members. Thus, the temporary heads of the parliamentary groups and Members of the National Communities adopted a decision at the meeting on 28 July 2014, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 10 and Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to determine the number of seats of the members of the members of the Commission of the mandate and to determine the groups of Members belonging to them as President and Vice-President. The adopted decision follows the provisions of Article 7(2) of the Law on Members, which provides that representatives of all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly shall be represented in the Mandate-Election Commission. The Commission is thus represented by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, which has four seats, in accordance with the decision. The President of the National Assembly, Mr Janko Weber, sent a letter after the meeting, in accordance with the agreement of all the Heads and Members of the National Communities, inviting them to inform him of the names of the Members to be members of the Management and Electoral Commission, in accordance with Article 33(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This has been done by all temporary leaders of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Member of the People's Communities, with the exception of Mr Jožet Tank, the leader of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Following the expiry of the deadline, Mr Tanko informed President Webra in a telephone conversation that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members did not intend to appoint its members to the Committee on Mandate-Election. In this regard, I note that the composition of the Mandate-Electorial Commission is legal. Therefore, the Commission may carry out its work in accordance with Article 7 of the Law on Members and Article 13(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party shall have four seats on the Commission and may participate in its work, either by appointing members in accordance with paragraph 7 of Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and informing the President of the National Assembly thereof, or by 4 Members of this Group may participate and vote on the basis of the mandate of the interim Head of the Group of Members at a meeting of the Commission, subject to the reasonable application of Article 54 of the Rules of Procedure. In the light of your procedural proposal, I cannot put to the vote. Please, Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot agree with this explanation, because in this case I think you have confused the allocation of work or work-body seats and representation in the working-body. The Party shall be represented in the working body only if it appoints its Member to this working body. We have no personal representation in the working bodies of the National Assembly. We don't. If the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has not appointed anyone to the labour force, it is more than obvious that it is not represented in this working body. She's not represented. Madam President, I think it is inappropriate for us to burden the beginning of this mandate with such, in my opinion, an inadequate interpretation of Article 7 of the Law on Members. In order to avoid complications, I propose that you obtain a written opinion and request it, a written opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service – for which we also have it – to distribute this written opinion to all Members of Parliament on the bench and then set a time to examine this opinion. I think that this proposal is well-founded and, I hope, well-intentioned. I would not like to see all these strong legal capacities, which are also in this national assembly, that even among those who once advised the services of the National Assembly, we may find ourselves in a situation where procedures may be conducted elsewhere. Let's take some time. Today we reserved time for a constitutional meeting of the National Assembly, the interruptions are foreseen, are an integral part of this process and I am counting on it to finally prevail not in this national assembly, but in common sense. And I propose, Madam President, that you suspend the meeting and ensure a written position, a written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and a time to examine this opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable assembly, especially the SDS and Mr Tank, to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states: "The Member has the right and the duty to express in which the working bodies of the National Assembly wish to participate." And I would add that the problem is, what if more members of the group did that, today we could not even hold a constitutional meeting of the National Assembly. I call on the other leaders of the parliamentary groups or temporary leaders of the parliamentary groups or Members, if anyone wishes to take this matter on a procedural basis. Please. Mr. Tanko, would you like to proceed with the procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u10	Dear President and also your right-hand man, Madam Secretary-General, I very much ask you not to interpret our demands with articles of the Rules of Procedure which have absolutely no connection to this. There's absolutely no connection. We in the parliamentary group want an expert position, an expert position can be given by the Legislative and Legal Service, which is why we have it in this house. If we request the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is also linked to the provisions of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to acquire these things, or this opinion, and not to try to distort in any way what we have proposed and what we demand. What we request is not the subject of an interpretation by the President or the Secretary-General, but is a request. This request must be decided by the National Assembly. It can also be decided by only the President, there is no problem, but I suggest that you avoid any further complications, any problems that may arise from this, make it possible or obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which we will all have. This request is nothing unusual, nothing special. However, if this is difficult, I would ask for the opinion of a former external adviser to the National Assembly, who has also done similar things, as an expert, if this is so difficult to ensure and so difficult to obtain. I propose that the President-in-Office suspend the meeting to order the Legal and Legislative Service to write an opinion in this connection between the appointment or the appointment of members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission or the non-titlement and Article 7 of the Law on Members. This can be done quickly. And then to give us time to study this opinion of the Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. The opinion I have to make is that the SDS or you, Mr Tanko, still have the opportunity to communicate the name of four of your Members who would participate in the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I now give the floor or procedure to Mr Möderndorfer. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thought that today's session, as we started it, of course with the Slovenian anthem, we would start respectfully. I see that Comrade Tanko, when he is back in Parliament, does not respect this, but accuses this well-respected assembly that we are, in fact, proceding and complicating only a constitutional meeting. In fact, he has allowed himself to take 9 minutes and is essentially harassing us all with something that is perfectly clear with the rules of procedure itself. Therefore, the President-in-Office, what Mr Tanko knows very well is that you are the only one who can interpret the Rules of Procedure during the meeting alone, so I suggest you take matters seriously and do not let yourself be provoked by Mr Tank. If they want this business opportunity to appoint their candidates, if not, it is their problem or their serious problem because they do not want to participate in the establishment of this respected assembly. Therefore, I propose that we proceed with the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Möderndorfer. I have to say that what I said earlier about this matter is an opinion or was drawn up on the basis of an opinion and a consultation with the Legislative and Legal Service. So I don't think there's any reason to ask the opinion of the office again, but if we already have that opinion. Please, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Unlike Mr Möderndorfer, I am in favour of the fact that our anthem is a little longer, not a four-row one. However, with regard to these interpretations, Madam President, I must remind you that the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party do not have an opinion on the Legal and Legislative Service, in conjunction with the provisions of Article 7 of the Law on Members. Now, if you have this opinion, then I suggest you split it up and give us time to study it. I think it is most common that, in the legislative process or at this constitutional meeting, the opinions that are necessary to decide our parliamentary group or any other parliamentary group are obtained. And for us in this case the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is important, and that is why we also requested it. The National Assembly has never acted in such a way that the legislative and legal opinions were hidden, that the services had been activated in a kind of conspiracy and prepared something, without the possibility of a group of Members having an equal, equal view of the material being prepared in the services of the National Assembly. This has been a very common phenomenon lately. That is why I also propose, Madam President, that you stop meeting again, that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which you are obviously carrying alone, should be shared and given time, as is perfectly normal and normally the subject of examining this opinion. If we didn't get this request mixed up, we'd have this opinion on the table right now, and we'd probably be looking at it for 10 minutes. But it obviously prevails over strength and not that, with some reasoned view, your decision is reinforced and we, the Group of Members, help us to make this decision. Madam President, I suggest that you understand the situation that you know why this has occurred, because we have also proposed some things at this meeting and have been ignored and, in order to avoid further problems, we request the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. I don't think any of the presidents are gonna be able to give that up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. The interim head of the SD Group, Mr Han, also wanted to do so on a procedural basis. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Well, I quit in the middle of it. I have to say, I'm a little embarrassed. [[…]] And probably when our citizens here are looking at that first session starting in such a destructive way, I don't think it's okay. And Madam President, I don't want to be in your shoes today, but Joze Tanko has to do his thing and he'll probably do it. I would suggest that if this goes on for some time in this way, for a five-minute break to consult in the parliamentary groups, if it doesn't work out differently, we will just have to vote. But I don't think it's okay to move on and start working for the citizens. Because in that way, Jože, when you started today, I feel like we're about to have another election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u17	I thank Mr Han for those words. Once again, the position of the ZPS, called the Legal and Legislative Service, is the same as I said before. We got their opinion orally, and I sketched it, so I could say it here. We obtained it at a time when we discovered that the SDS would today put this requirement in a procedural question or procedure. I believe that there is really no reason to complicate it, you can take advantage of your opportunity and duty and appoint four members to the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Then we can keep working. I think that would be the right thing to do. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u18	Thank you very much again. Look, Madam President, you said that on the basis of the oral explanation of the Legal and Legislative Service, you wrote what you have and what you read. This interpretation of yours does not please us because it seems unfair to me that the chairman is trying to take us along with the Secretary-General of the National Assembly even now that there is no need to do so, he is trying to drive things in some non-profit way and drive us through the agenda points in doubt that the matter is prepared in accordance with the law. I think that's incorrect. The first task of the President-in-Office of the National Assembly and the Secretary-General of the General Assembly is to ensure that the procedures are carried out properly, that there is no doubt in their minds that there is no doubt that anything is wrong in this process. We therefore propose or demand that we obtain a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service. That's why we demand. What our obligations are, do not worry, we will fulfill them when the time is right and when there will be agreement in the National Assembly for this. It's not right now. I therefore propose that, I do not know, instead of torturing the National Assembly, to make this interruption, to do what is expected of the President, this is to ensure that all the grounds necessary to make the decision at this point are taken, to make the decision at the next two items of the agenda, that we will have a mandate committee that is truly in line with the law, and that decisions will be consistent with the law on Members. This matter is governed by several acts, the Rules of Procedure are one of the acts, but a direct provision on how the Mandate-Election Commission must be drawn up is laid down by law. You do not speak to us and explain the rights of the parliamentary group and Members, we request an interpretation or opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service concerning the provision of Article 7 of the Law on Members. We do not want your interpretation, ma'am, we do not want an interpretation of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, we want an interpretation, an explanation, a reasoned opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. And nothing else. From there, we will decide what we will do when we get that opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. After all this, I propose that the National Assembly decide whether the meeting is suspended and, in the meantime, obtain an opinion from the Legislative-Legal Service. So, I propose to the National Assembly that we take a decision to suspend the meeting of the National Assembly in 15 minutes and to obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service at that time. This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. We're voting please. The vote is under way. I'm closing the vote. 85 Members and Members are present. There were 26 votes against 59. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact that our request for a written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service has not been voted out can only lead to the fact that our position in this case was correct. If the majority of the coalition or future other parliamentary groups supported this opinion, it is likely that some things should be clarified and also set out differently. However, because you have voted as you are, and you have not even allowed the opportunity for the Legislative and Legal Service to clarify and remove all these doubts that arise at the following point, then I can only conclude that this different legal, political culture that has been predicted will take effect exactly as it did in this case. I don't think it's good to continue the work of the National Assembly. The legal, political culture of all those working in the legislative branch of the government to give, in particular, these professional positions drawn up by the services of the National Assembly and the Legislative and Legal Service is the only one who can draw up such an opinion to enable this acquisition and thus also the basis for the proper and quality decision of the Members of the National Assembly. While Members may in fact decide independently of this legal opinion, the fact that there is no basis for professional reasons is unlikely to be good for the beginning of the work of this national assembly. Otherwise, I don't know what this different political culture will look like. It is not known because we do not have these cases, but it is announced by the proposal in the Coalition Treaty that all those who have supported a certain political option will be rewarded with a new property tax. This is one part of this political culture that is likely to be implemented at the beginning and soon in this national assembly. With regard to the proposal for a President and Vice-President of the Electoral Commission, I would like to inform you that we will not support this proposal. We will not support it solely because you did not allow us to gain the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, so that this dilemma of compliance with Article 7 of the Law on Members would also be clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Now the word "Department Group" has the word "Common Left" (DSD, IDS and TRS Party). I give the floor to Mrs Violeta Tomic, who is not in the hall. I therefore propose that we continue to present the views of Members. I repeat my word to Mr Jozet Tank. You're giving up the debate? Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the candidates for the debate, and I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision on the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Election Commission. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 21. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On the basis of the decision adopted on the number of seats on the Commission belonging to the individual group of Members and Members of the Member States and members of the Commission, the temporary heads of the Groups of Members and Members of the Commission have communicated the names of Members and Members of the Commission. The interim head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has not communicated the names of the members for the 4 seats they belong to on this committee. Thus, the 19-member composition of the Mandate-voluntary Commission is as follows: Dr Mitja Horvat, SMC Group, Mir Cerar Party, President; Ivan Hršak, DeSUS Group, Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Vice-President. The members of the commission are: from the SMC Group, the Mir Cerar Party, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Margareta Guček Zakošek, Liljana Kozlovič, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Maruša Škopac, Igor Zorčič and Branko Zorman; from the DeSUS Group, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar; from the SD Group, Social Democrats, Matjaž Han; from the Coalition Coalition United Left (DSD, IDS and TRS Party) Matjaž Hanžek; from the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats mag. Mr Matej Tonin; from the Parliamentary Group Alliance Alenka Bratusek Jani Möderndorfer; from the Italian and Hungarian national communities Dr. László Göncz. Your Honor, this concludes this agenda item. For the preparation of the 2nd item of the agenda, the Mandate-Volution Commission shall meet immediately in a large lounge opposite the Great Hall. Members of the Commission, please take with you the material you received in connection with item 2 of the agenda. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume at 12 o'clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I suggest you take your seats. We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S AT THE ASSISTANCE OF MANDAT'S MISSIONS You have received the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and the report of the State Election Commission. I note that, until the beginning of the meeting, no complaints were lodged with the candidates or representatives of the lists. I would like to ask the President of the Electoral Commission, Dr. Mitjo Horvat, to submit a report to the Commission. In front of the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On the basis of Article 13 and 42 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission, as its parent working body, prepared a review report, a confirmation of its election by means of a proposal for the approval of mandates. The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the first session of the first session. 8. In accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of the Law on Members and Article 13(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 2014 reviewed the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the early elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the certificate of election of Members and Members of the National Assembly. In the light of the above, the Commission found the following: At the early election of Members of the National Assembly 13. Seven. On the basis of Article 90 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the lists totalled 53 terms and, pursuant to Article 91 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, 53 candidates and candidates were elected. The remaining 35 mandates were divided at national level under the provisions of Articles 92 and 93 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. One candidate was elected a representative of the Italian National Community and a representative of the Hungarian National Community. The election certificate was submitted to the Commission by 90 elected candidates and candidates, of which 2 duplicates. The appeal by the individual candidate and the representative of the list of candidates pursuant to Article 109 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly until the 1st meeting of the National Assembly has not been lodged. On the basis of all the above, the Mandate-Electorial Commission found that none of the 90 mandates sent were disputed. Having regard to all the above-mentioned Rules of Procedure, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 7 of the Law on Members and Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision be adopted: the terms of office of all Members and Members of the National Assembly elected in the early elections on 13 July 2014 shall be confirmed by the list of candidates for Members and candidates for Members, which shall be an integral part of the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and which you have below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u24	I thank Dr. Mitji Horvath for his report. We are moving on to the debate on the report of the Mandate-Volution Commission. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that. All of you have a lovely greeting and congratulations on your election! A very special greeting and a very special congratulations to John Janša, who was entrusted to him by the electorate. Although he was sent to prison on the basis of a criminal charge and conviction immediately after the start of the electoral campaign, he was also totally media discredited, as was the Slovenian Democratic Party and, of course, the candidates of the Slovenian Democratic Party. With Janez Janša being sent to prison, he was denied a campaign for him personally, in his constituency as well as for all of us, the candidates of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Because of the absence of this electoral fairway, we consider these elections to be illegal. However, Janez Janša among all of us, the newly elected Members received the most votes, with the most votes in his district, and on behalf of his colleagues, I also sincerely congratulate Mr Janša on his success in the elections. In addition to Robert Battelli, Janez Janša is the only Member elected in all elections to the National Assembly, and in these elections John Janša was also elected as the only political prisoner in the European Union. This election reflects their trust among voters and their trust. I hope that our colleague Janša will also be able to perform his post unhindered. On behalf of the Members elected on the list of SDS, however, I would like to thank all the people who went to the elections and also all the voters who were John Janša and trusted us with their voice. Elections are always an important act of democracy, in fact a key act of democracy. This time, the elections were undermined by illegality, for one of the key political actors after the independence and even before the independence, was sent to prison, as I said in the introduction. It also continued this illegality at the beginning of the National Assembly, as soon as the parliamentary majority refused or refused an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the implementation of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on Members. If the parliamentary majority was so convinced of your right, of what you have voted down by rejecting our proposal, then you would have submitted the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on your own, because you obviously had it, or you would have demanded it yourself. But this has not happened, and unfortunately I can only find that this illegality continues, and not only continues, but also deepens. From the point of view of fairies, from the point of view of Olympianism, Ferplai is a key foundation of democracy. We're talking about equal opportunities, we're talking about equality before the law, and before that, we're talking about justice. But it wasn't in the elections, and it's not now. Big words about a different political culture, which would result in an improvement in the legal and social situation of citizens. In fact, with these decisions that we have been given in recent months and today, we are experiencing the return of the totalitarian model when the authorities and its institutions have been untouchable, and decisions often to the detriment of the citizens, and ultimately not fair, but legal, and it is not too much to say that we have the feeling that the old times are in place. Nevertheless, we will support these mandates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Tank. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor of the Coalition United Left (DSD, IDS and TRS Party).
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u27	Dear President, honourable Members! In the United Left Group we have found that we are all elected in accordance with the laws, so Members of the United Left will support the mandates of all newly elected Members. That is how the law, which was adopted long ago by this national assembly, dictates. But that's not the only thing we're stopping at. We would like to draw attention to something else that we will need to discuss and make decisions in the shortest possible future. It is an unacceptable fact that we are representatives of the people, members of this house of democracy, taking too many rights as we recognize them to other citizens. What do I mean? Let us ask ourselves what we are Members and Members of the public service, and what is the most exposed, responsible public servants, who must be examples to other citizens, even when it comes to jobs, such as ours for the next four years. Any person applying for employment in a state administration must have previously confirmed that he has not been punished and also that he is not in a criminal procedure that is far from illegal, let alone a criminal conviction. Without this certificate, he can't even run for employment. But if you want to run for representative of the people, that's not necessary. Moreover, you can sit quietly in your seats and decide the fate of unprivileged people and set living conditions that do not apply to you. As the Ombudsman, I had warned this institution more than a decade ago, but it was deaf, just as it was deaf about many other problems relating to the rule of law, equality before the law and also public speech. Instead of being an example of a harsh but respectful dialogue of arguments, this house has often been a source of intolerance and disrespect for the rule of law. This is evident by the multitude of unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court if I remain here alone. Respected and respected, if we are to enjoy the reputation of fellow citizens, if we want our decisions to be taken by people as their own, we must start with ourselves and introduce not only the same, but even stricter, criteria of action as applied to our fellow citizens as we represent them. And in this sense, the Members of the United Left will also act in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Hanzku. We're moving on. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u29	A respected choir! At the beginning, because I have not yet had this opportunity, congratulations also on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek to all the newly elected Members and Members, and I believe and hope that we will all work together actively together for the entire mandate. That is why we have also been elected, and I believe that we will all justify this trust together. In the Mandate-Election Commission, which also held a debate on the confirmation of mandates before this debate, we are aware that this is a kind of step that we will confirm what the State Election Commission has also found, and that all Members and Members have also informed us in writing that we have been elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The undeniable fact is that the electors and the electorates, together with all of us with different votes, have entrusted the mandate with various percentages to carry out our mission. At the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek we will also jointly confirm this mandate. However, the fact that we cannot move in this national assembly is that we have a slightly different situation in this mandate than we have in all mandates so far. This was also an open question on the Mandate-Election Commission, because after we confirm our mandates, there will also be respect for the rest of the legislation that is still in force in the Republic of Slovenia. And that is why it is perceiving that we have bad legislation, that we have irregular legislation, of course, out of the vine. In fact, it is important to look very clearly at whether we will respect this legislation and also take appropriate action in accordance with legislation alone. So, there will be a moment when we confirm our mandates, including the Law on Members. Article 9, third paragraph, is very clear. In this case, I expect that further on this issue, we will clear this matter very quickly, because this is our duty, because from this national assembly we must give a very clear message to the Slovenes and to the Slovenes that we are all equal before the law. It is more than clear in this country that not only the rule of law but also the high level of ethics and morality to which we all strongly referred during the elections. And that is why I believe and also believe in the Alliance that this is one of the reasons for our existence in this National Assembly. I believe we have this courage and reason to make the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Möderndorfer. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. He's checked out. Thank you very much. I didn't have any information. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor. You don't? Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer is next. Not at all. Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has also checked out. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. It follows from the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that there are no contested mandates, so I am putting to the vote the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission in full and therefore we are voting together on the approval of all 90 seats of Members and Members. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted unanimously. In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission has been fully adopted and all 90 mandates of Members and Members have been confirmed. I congratulate the elected Members and Members, and I wish them all much success in their work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. POTUS OF THE DAY — THE LOVE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENTAL CONGREGATION. I ask qualified candidates to submit a proposal for the President of the National Assembly by 1 p.m. in 30 minutes. I hereby adjourn the session of the assembly, which will be resumed at 13:15, when I inform you of the submitted nominations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u31	Members and Members of Parliament, please take your seats. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda – Elections of the President of the National Assembly Within the time limit for the submission of the nomination for election of the President of the National Assembly, the proposal was submitted by the group of 31 Members and Members, with the first-signed Dr. Mir Cerar, who proposes Dr. Milan Brglez as President of the National Assembly. Does Dr. Miro Cerar's representative of the candidate's proposal want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u32	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of the Union, distinguished citizens and citizens! Members and Members of our Party to the National Assembly are invited to elect Dr Milan Brglez as President of the National Assembly. The results of the parliamentary elections have shown that our citizens and citizens have given our party high support and in its programme have recognised the desire for changes that should reflect the stabilisation of the social, economic, political and also the state of value. One of the important steps on this path is also the appointment, election of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This, the second most important state function in Slovenia, must be performed by a person with a high personal and professional attitude who is sincerely committed to our country and its citizens and citizens. We are convinced that our candidate, Dr Milan Brglez, is more than enough to meet all the above criteria and that his work will make an important contribution to the image of a well-functioning and advanced parliamentary democracy. Dr. Milan Brglez is a graduate political scientist in the direction of International Relations, Master of International Science and Doctor of Science on International Relations. During his election to the National Assembly, he worked as an international relations associate and chair of the Department of International Relations and as the guardian of a doctoral study in the field of diplomacy at the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Ljubljana. Under his mentorship he graduated and mastered more than 100 students, several students and students received the scientific title Master of Science in Slovenia and abroad, and so far he has also been a mentor or co-mentor to four PhDs in the field of international relations, European studies and diplomacy. He researched scientifically within the framework of the Center for the Study of International Relations at the Faculty of Social Sciences and co-ordinated prominent international scientific journals. He published a scientific monograph entitled The Philosophy of Social Sciences in the science of international relations: from criticism of political realism to critical ontological realism. He is the author and co-author of several scientific and professional articles and contributions published at home and abroad. Part of his professional work was also linked to occasional professional comments in electronic and printed media relating to widely understood diplomatic relations, international political and international law issues. He has received several awards for his work so far. In 1993 he received the Prešeren Prize for Social Sciences for Best Graduate Work and the Zoret Prize for the United Nations Society. In 1996, Zoret awarded his master's degree in codification of modern diplomatic law and in 2007 awarded his doctorate as the best in 2006 at the Faculty of Social Sciences. Special recognition also meant his membership and chairmanship of the Government's Information Office's committee for the evaluation of diplomas and his membership in the University Commission for the award of Prešern Prizes and in the Statuteary Commission of the University of Ljubljana. He was a member of several international and domestic professional associations, the President of the Slovenian Political Society and the Vice-President of the United Nations Society for Slovenia. He participated in a group of lawyers preparing everything necessary for the representation of Slovenia in its border dispute with Croatia before the ad hoc arbitral tribunal. He also cooperated with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the re-establishment of the education system and in the verification of the skills of non-professional diplomats. In 2011, the Red Cross of Slovenia elected him Vice-President, but resigned from this function because of its incompatibilities with political action in our political party. We are convinced that, with his knowledge and wisdom, the candidates will contribute significantly to the country's further strategic development decisions, in which he will be fundamentally guided by the values of tolerance, solidarity, integration, openness, honesty and honesty. Ladies and gentlemen, we are confident that by electing Dr Milan Brglez, we will take the first decisive step towards re-stabilization of our democracy and the establishment of a responsible political culture. For all of this, we believe in our party that the proposal to elect Dr. Brglez as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is a reflection of a sound and responsible decision, and therefore, honourable Members and Members, I propose that you support our proposal and elect Dr. Milan Brglez as President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u33	I thank the distinguished Dr. Mir Cerar for his explanation of the candidate's proposal for President of the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the DeSUS Group of Members, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u34	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Mrs Marjani Kotnik Poropat, for the excellent conduct of this meeting. Congratulations. Of course, I also congratulate all Members of Parliament on their election and confirmation of their mandate. At the DeSUS party, we will support Dr. Milan Brglez's candidacy as President of the National Assembly. We will support it because it is imperative that the National Assembly be set up as soon as possible and that we reach the government as soon as possible. We know what the situation is in the country, and the key to solving the problems facing Slovenia is a stable political situation. Surely, the confirmation of the candidate for the President of the National Assembly will help to make Slovenia more stable from now on than at the time of the election campaign when the election results were announced. Of course, in the party DeSUS, we also expect the formation of a coalition, as soon as possible, to form a government, because we do not have time to wait. It was common for the Constitutional Assembly to know what the framework coalition would be like, what the framework coalition would be like, but given that time had passed, what kind of government would be like and what relations would be within Parliament at this time. That is why I also call on the President of the strongest party in the Parliament, Dr. Mir Cerar, to resume talks with the parliamentary parties with whom he wants to form a government with great responsibility. As far as DeSUS is concerned, we are prepared to participate in such a government, but of course we are prepared under certain conditions. The DeSUS program is very clear. We want to preserve the social state, we want to ensure the employment of young people, we want to ensure a safe age for the elderly, we want security for the disabled, and there will be negotiations between the Mir Cerar Party and the DeSUS party, if these negotiations are to continue. Therefore, you can count on our support from Dr. Milan Brglez in DeSUS. I personally know him as a great expert in international relations, he also participates in my strategic world as Minister of Foreign Affairs, and he actually holds to what was said in the introduction, because he is a great expert in international relations, so I think he can carry out this task successfully, as long as he is also entrusted by the National Assembly and the Coalition. So you have 10 votes in DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Social Democrats. Dear Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and Members! Let me take this opportunity, and from this place on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I sincerely congratulate you on your election to the National Assembly. I wish everyone the best and, above all, I want everything good for citizens and citizens. There are many challenges facing Slovenia, but there is no need to explain them in particular. These challenges await the door of this National Assembly. It is important that, today, by a decision on the new President of the National Assembly, we open them up to a wide opening where we have the opportunity, in particular too much and too much responsibility, to take decisions in favour of our citizens and citizens. In view of our political conviction, we must unite as a team in actions that will close the door to narrow political interests, for only on solid foundations can we build new solutions, new successes, and justify people's confidence. This trust, ladies and gentlemen, must not become self-evident. Nor should it be pushed into a drawer where the label is "used if necessary". It is the core of our action in the National Assembly and a test of political maturity that we will not sacrifice it on the altar of our client bills or other accounts. So we are not only before the decision of the new President of the National Assembly, but we are at the crossroads of two paths. One path leads forward, to work that will not be easy, but promises progress. The second path leads to a blind street of political blockades and unable to make the right and necessary decisions. The SD Group of Members is not a group that weighs which path is the right one. For us, the only way is the way forward. I want to, and I believe that most of us here today think that way. However, I must make it clear that in the SD we are proud that the leadership of the National Assembly also has our seal. The President of the National Assembly, Mr Janko Weber, has done a great deal despite a relatively short period of time and has also established high standards for the management of this institution for the new President of the National Assembly. In this place, I want to thank him sincerely. I believe that today this baton will be successfully transferred. I also have the confidence that our joint decision will be the result of a mature political action and not a calculus infected by a pre-election event. Respectable. The President of the National Assembly is not a function to be traded before or after the elections or at any time. It is a reflection of all of us here, of our work and of our mission. The Social Democrats will unanimously support Dr. Milan Brglez's candidate for President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is by the Coalition Coalition Group United Left (DSD, IDS and TRS Party). Dear Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Your Honor! Today, the United Left enters this institution, which we have long criticised from outside, and this is an important moment, because today is the first time that socialists are entering this place. The work of the United Left in Parliament will be to support proposals that are in the best interests of the people and strongly oppose all those who actually act only in the interests of capital, which means a narrow handful of stakeholders. As the socialist opposition, we will be such a bad conscience to all those who undermine the fundamental points of the country, whose function should be primarily to care equally for citizens. Today, this is how we enforce the voice of those who have been without a voice for a long time, and we enforce the voice of those who today remain outside the walls of this place. For this reason, the United Left Group will support Dr Milan Brglez as President of the National Assembly, because this is the first step towards the constitution of the National Assembly and the beginning of serious work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Dear Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u40	Dear President, Dear Fellows and Fellows, Dear Citizens! First of all, I thank the voters of New Slovenia, who supported us, and that is why the five of us are sitting here today in the National Assembly. Then congratulations to all other Members of Parliament and Members who have been elected to this House of Democracy. When we were out there, we were all really critical and smart, we knew everything the National Assembly had to do, but now we have a unique opportunity to make us better and to do everything our constituents, citizens and citizens expect us to do. We have the opportunity to work better, more effectively and for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Above all, I want them to be able to listen, to hear, and then to make the best decisions. I am always unhappy to hear that legal services say that something is not in accordance with the law or the Constitution and so on. I wish we could listen and accept this and find the best solutions. Then we too will be satisfied with our work. And if we sometimes do not know how to take a step through the coalition or the opposition, we have a unique opportunity to do so in this mandate. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are aware that this House of Democracy needs its President, who will work for the well-being of citizens and citizens who will respect laws, regulations and regulations and who will give an equal word to the coalition and the opposition, so that we all feel that we are involved, welcome and equal. Christian Democrats will support Dr Milan Brglez as President of the National Assembly, because we know that the procedure must go forward and that this country needs a President and an acting National Assembly. Of course, I would like to point out, however, that this does not mean that NSI is already in the coalition. This is the second procedure we've taken. But we support Dr. Brglez as President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, I wish all of us a happy and successful work.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u41	Thank you. The word is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Sir Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u42	We all know that the act of electing the President of the National Assembly is in fact the last seal to say that the National Assembly is constituted. That is why in the Alliance of Alenka Bratusek, we really look forward to this. The predictions of today’s session were incredible. And that's why I like that we'll do it practically in the next hour. In particular, we are pleased with the proposal made by Mir Cerar's party and put a man in first place with great reputation, not only at the university, but also in the environment where he lives, and in the Slovenian space where he has already demonstrated with his work and his contributions what his reputation and abilities are. It's not just about education, it's about experience. Finally, in this brief time when we had the opportunity to get to know him personally, he also proved that he could prove and demonstrate a high moral level of responsibility by performing his act and his relationship. That is why I believe that we will be able to confirm and allow the National Assembly, with a large majority, which is announced by all representatives of the parliamentary groups, to begin to work quickly for what is most important, and this is the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia. You, Mr. Brglez, already have a card in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Möderndorfer. The Italian and Hungarian Group of Nationalities has the floor. Dear Mr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues, a nice greeting and congratulations on our behalf as well! Mindnyájukat Nagyon juice shreetettel és testeltel köszöntöm! Un cordiale saluto and tutti! The President of the National Assembly by rank is one of the three most important functions of the Slovenian political hierarchy and therefore it is necessary to approach this election with maximum seriousness and responsibility. We hope that this is indeed the case, and we hope that the winning party in the last elections, namely the Mir Cerar Party, has proposed a candidate worthy of this confidence. I announce our support to Dr. Brglez, and I am confident that he will be the first of the same, so that this will contribute qualitatively to the work of the National Assembly. I have no doubt that we are all aware of our responsibilities together and that we all want to get out of the crisis as soon as possible. I would only add to this the idea that I am assessing that it is possible to talk about the crisis already a little over-potential. We live in some time, some condition, some social situation that's just as different as it was. And it is also necessary to shape a future policy, which, as has already been highlighted several times today, should be based on actual content, honesty and consensus. Finally, let me add that we also expect an important mandate from indigenous national communities in the coming years, because much remains to be done, particularly in the implementation and practical field. In the field of legislation, it could be said that there is a lot of good, we can also point out several times that this level may even be a little higher than some general European level, and we do not challenge it either, but believe that there is at least as large a gap in practical implementation as the previously mentioned difference in the theoretical-formal sense. In this area, too, we expect good cooperation and the added value of Mr Brglez, who, as an expert in foreign policy, surely realizes that a well-solvable minority issue is a very important foundation for democracy and all good relations in society. As I said before, we are also announcing support for Dr. Brglez's candidate, and we wish him good luck at work in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gönch. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Joseph Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam President-in-Office. Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Janko Weber, distinguished candidate, Dr Milan Brglez, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin my first debate at the beginning of the seventh call of the National Assembly, as some of you have already done, by saying thank you. Thanks to all those who recognized the answers for the future in NSa and those who might not have been our voters, however, they acknowledged that our programme is best for the exit of Slovenia from the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, on 23 December 1990, on the plebiscite, a large majority of the inhabitants and residents of this country of Slovenia decided to be independent of Slovenia, for a new and different future. One fundamental human rights was realized with plebiscite, the right to self-determination of the Slovenian people. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the new country, the Republic of Slovenia, was created on 25 June 1991 in the heart of Europe. And it was founded on parliamentary democracy. The foundation of our country is parliamentary democracy and we, colleagues and colleagues, are the first to be the guardians of parliamentary democracy. You, the distinguished candidate, Dr. Milan Brglez, I believe you will receive sufficient support, as you have heard. Of course you'll get my vote. You will be the first guardian of parliamentary democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. This is very important because it is in this area that we are sometimes not doing well. I wish to forget as soon as possible the events such as the decisions taken by the Government, which have overtaken a decision on privatisation in the National Assembly. I wish to forget as soon as possible the conflicts we have witnessed in recent days regarding the appointment of candidates for Commissioner or Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia. Here must be the last word and a decision must be taken here, in the spirit of parliamentary democracy and in the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon. That is why I ask you, honourable President of the National Assembly, and I suggest that you influence as soon as possible whether the government or anyone else will bring into this national election a new Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government when it comes to the affairs of the European Union. I would also like this National Assembly to be operational and functional as soon as possible, perhaps in the second week. In fact, this moment is not yet there, because we have only one working body set up. I would also like to establish, as soon as possible, at least the provisional Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Finance and perhaps a joint committee, so that we can get to work, as it is large. Today my thoughts have repeatedly stopped at a dramatic number. Almost 8,000 people left this year. They didn't go on vacation, but with the belly behind the bread, our mission, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, is to prevent it. To create an environment for our citizens and citizens here at home where they can create with their intellectual potential and, of course, with their right hands. Our citizens and citizens expect this from us and deserve it. This must be today and in the future our key issue, not what positions some of us will have. This is not in the spirit of working for the common good. The work for the common good is a concern for the entire two million as far as this country is passing us. Now is not the time to delay reform decisions, now is the time to roll up our sleeves and start working. Dear Dr. Brglez, we've known each other for some time, we've sat together in a strategic world for foreign affairs while they invited me there. That's where I met you. As I say, I wish you every success on an extremely important mission that you will carry out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Now I give my word to the revered mags. Mr. Matthew Tonin. Mag. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u48	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! My sincere congratulations on your election. There are a lot of new people in this house. I'm sure you've all done brilliant careers so far, that you've been successful in your professions, and that's probably why people have chosen you. But from now on, you're going into a house where they say they're all the same. And that those of us sitting in this house are part of the problem. And I hope that we are all aware together that there are extremely difficult times ahead of us, that when there is an election campaign, one is said, and when the campaign is over, the numbers are looked at and they are not pink. If you know and know that Slovenia today has EUR 28 billion in debt to generate at least one billion interest each year, this means that as much as 10% of our budget goes to waste. If we don't stop this, then it means that the interest rate will continue to increase and it won't just be 10% anymore, but it will be 15, 20, maybe even 30, which means that on the other hand there will be less funding for public health, public education, roads and more. These things are connected. Therefore, Dr. Brglez, who will perform one of the key functions in the country, puts the following thoughts on the heart. This is a function that can greatly contribute to the calming of passion in the country or further ignite it. This is a function that can be a key promoter of different Slovenia, reforms and the like, but can also be a major inhibitor. However, I hope that Mr Brglez, as President of the National Assembly, will take the floor for reforms. We have said that at least five reforms are needed, namely tax reform, judicial reform, pension, health and labour market reform. This is five reforms we cannot avoid. The sooner we bite them, the easier it will be. But believe me, the resistance will be violent. The few Members, who referred to us from the previous term and who were in the coalition in 2012, must remember the pressure that was exerted on Members when the famous ZUJF was adopted, but it was only about EUR 400 million. In such a public financial situation in which the state is now, it will be necessary to make the ZUJF2 times 2. And then it won't be easy. And I hope we're all aware of this responsibility in the country. I know it's nice to talk about how we're going to share, how great and cool things are, but I don't think Members and Members of Parliament are going to be part of the problem if we start telling the truth once and for all, we're going to be offering the things that are right, that will save the country, and not those that might seem good, and that will help us get a Member in the next term. I apologize if I was a little more pessimistic in my first speech. Nevertheless, I am an optimist by nature, and I believe that Slovenia still finds itself, when we have fallen into difficult times, and this time it will. Good luck to all Members of Parliament, and especially to you, Mr Brglez. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u49	Thank you. Madam Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Jernej Vrtovec. Mrs. Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I congratulate everyone on the approved mandate. I hope for our good cooperation. The fact that the President of the National Assembly is one of the highest positions in the country also tells us that we all have a common desire that the leadership of the National Assembly be fair and equal and that to all of us, and thus to the Members, we are proud. Mr President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, I wish you all the good in your path, and above all the respect we have for the fellow human being, which we Christian Democrats have always done and will continue to do. We're hoping for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Dimic. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mr Roberto Battelli. Mr. Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, distinguished by the President of this High Council and, last but not least, by the distinguished Mr Brglez, candidate for President of the National Assembly! This National Assembly is being set up at a time when Slovenia is actually in one of the worst crises since its independence. We are plagued by an extraordinary economic and financial crisis, and part of the blame is on ourselves, on politicians, on those who also deal with politics and on past mandates. That is why I would like the focus of this National Assembly's work to focus on solving the problems and problems that Slovenia is facing, not on the basis of certain health and such or other pressures. And this responsibility will also be vested in the President of the National Assembly. That is why I wish you not always to act from a position of power, because as President of the National Assembly, you are among the three most important functions immediately behind the President of the State, but also to speak democratically to act democratically in accordance with the Constitution and the business order. I will personally support you as President of the National Assembly. If I had not done so, it would have been based on ideological belief or would have voted against because of spite. I will support you because this National Assembly needs to be set up today and needs a president so that we can start working full-time, invigorated and in a spirit of good and effective cooperation for this country. To conclude, congratulations to all elected Members and Members of this Assembly. I hope for good cooperation. We will work constructively in New Slovenia and our focus will always be on the problems that Slovenia is actually facing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the debate between Members and Members. Is there a final word for the candidate, Mr Miro Cerar? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. The temporary heads of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for a member and a member of the committee leading the vote. These are: Dr Mitja Horvat (PS SMC), Matjaž Germany (PS SD), Miha Kordiš (PS Coalition United Left) and Iva Dimic (NSi). As President, I am also a member of this Commission. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly, will also participate in the work of the Commission. I ask if anyone objects to this proposal for the composition of the Commission? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 86 Members and Members present, 66 Members and Members voted in favour of the motion for a decision, and no one was against it. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the commission has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with Article 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the President will be elected if the majority of all Members vote for him, i.e. 46 Members or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which is at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, because we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 2.10 p.m. and will last until 14.25 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet immediately in room 217. I interrupt the 3rd item of the agenda and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 2.40 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u54	Dear Members and Members. We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We continue with the adjournment of the third item, these are the election of the President of the National Assembly. I will now read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of Dr Milan Brglez as President of the National Assembly. The vote took place at the Assembly premises on 1 August 2014. 86 ballots were distributed, 86 ballots were delivered. There were 19 invalid ballots, 67 valid ballots. 66 members voted against by one Member. (The vote was 66.)(against 1.) On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Milan Brglez was elected President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. Congratulations! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u55	I congratulate the President of the National Assembly on his election. I ask the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, to address the National Assembly. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I thank you for the honour you have shown me when you voted as you did. At the same time, on this occasion, I would like to congratulate all Members of Parliament and Members who were elected in the 7th Congress on having successfully taken over their functions today. I express my desire and my will to cooperate sincerely with all of them, both with those who will be in position, in particular with those who will be in opposition and at the same time with all the services that enable the National Assembly to function smoothly. Right with everyone. At the same time, I would like to thank the President for the proper and good conduct of the National Assembly until this moment. I am aware that I have a much greater responsibility, although we all share this responsibility, because this city symbolically represents the most important point of the rule of the people. And this point of the rule of the people must be implemented in an appropriate manner, through cooperation and dialogue. What I can promise is what I have somehow managed to show in my work so far, although not always completely, and this is some openness to dialogue and respect for everyone. I'm not going to teach you how to act, at least not as much with words as I'm going to try to do with actions. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u57	Thank you very much to the President for his words and once again congratulations on your election. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and I ask the newly elected President to take his place.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-08-01-SDZ7-Redna-01.ana.u58	Ambassadors and Members, all I have left is to conclude the first meeting of the National Assembly. I inform Members and Members that in 5 minutes we will be in the hall first, and then on the staircase we will take a group photo. Members and Members who are not currently in the Chamber, please join us. After a group photo shoot, I invite Members and Members to the lobby of the great hall. Thank you.
