ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 54th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. At this point, I would like to draw your attention, because I would also like to draw your attention to the extremely serious consequences of the capture that have affected many citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, there has also been a tragic accident, a tragic case in which Mr. Njec Mesarič lost his life. I propose that we honour his memory with a minute of silence and sincerely thank him for his immeasurable help at this very moment in Slovenia. / minute silence/ Praise him. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Polonca Komar, Mrs Janja Navast, Mrs Irena Tavčar, mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Saša Kos, Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Mr Andrej Šircelj, Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Dragutin Mate, Mr Samo Bevk, Mr Jakob Preseknik from 15:00 on, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, Mr Bojan Starman, Mr Zvonko Černač and Mrs Marija Plevčak. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 54th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 31 January 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We are moving on to a decision and please also check the functioning of the voting apparatus at this time. At this point in time, however, Mr Happy Meh wishes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, Mr President, you told us what is the worst, worst, hardest, and worst and hardest moment in Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 61, second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that there be no conditions for this meeting. I suggest that we do not make this session, that this moment is the time to talk about something else, that we must devote all our forces to restoring our country. There are no conclusions, neither is this, and we keep talking about things that can be very important to someone, but for the majority of the population and the population, they are completely irrelevant, they are constantly confusing, and it is no wonder that residents and residents have such an opinion on politics, on the National Assembly and on us Members and Members of Parliament. I cannot agree with such an opinion, I do not want to agree, and I would simply say: at a time when as many as 10,000 people are struggling to survive with all that they can do every day, put together a place with a place where there is still no electricity, that the victims fall, that there are also inhuman efforts, we are talking about something that doesn't matter at all, which doesn't matter at all, which doesn't matter, and it's confusing again. I don't think it's good, it's not right, it's not the time, and if at such a time, Members and Members could show at least a little bit of wisdom, common sense and not talk about something that there are no conclusions, which there are no conclusions, of which the Home Committee has already put its point of view. I'm bitter, disappointed as mayor, and many of us are here. I know what it's like in the field, I know what it's like in the Shale Valley, and I know what people do. And if they're watching me here today when we're discussing something that doesn't have a tail or a head, then I'm sure we don't know this moment or we don't want to know what's going on here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Meh. I must remind you that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure make it very clear that if a request for an extraordinary meeting is made, I must convene such a meeting. The deadline that was set is February 7th, and today we also have this meeting. We have a meeting at the request of Members and Members. Perhaps if the candidates of the extraordinary meeting decided to withdraw this request, your procedural proposal could come into force, but I cannot decide that this meeting would not be. Probable procedural proposal, Mr Tanko. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, you have kindly said that, in essence, this procedural proposal cannot be taken into account because it does not comply with the business provision. All conditions are met for the holding of this meeting, whether or not the conclusions are attached. They would be if the coalition accepted them. As for the linkage with the fundamental disaster that has taken place in Slovenia, however, I must be honest, even in our party's parliamentary group we expected significantly more than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as it has done so far. Indeed, after a week, we would expect to consider today some kind of intervention law that would provide resources to remedy the consequences. However, all the government has accepted is EUR 314 000. This is about 15% less than Mr Stepišnik received last autumn at the invitation of his ministry, for all the fundamental consequences. And if in this way, Mr Meh, you are dealing with the problems that are in Slovenia, that the proponents who have properly convened and requested the meeting and are also being processed, then something is seriously wrong. All that is missing in this country as regards economic measures as regards rescue measures as regards intervention measures, as regards the systemic approach to solving the crisis and these problems that have arisen with this naturally, is in the hands of the Government. We cannot propose an intervention law in the parliamentary group. It's just an instrument that the government has. We cannot propose any action following an emergency procedure because it is an instrument of government, and we have been waiting a long time to get anything in this area. However, there are other problems that need to be solved and that cannot be put off because they have been put off for too long, and one such situation is also in the State’s Attorney’s Office. We propose to hold this debate. We're not withdrawing the agenda. We suggest that we do it and that you do some thinking about what could be done in this area even further and better than is now the situation in the prosecution's organisation. You have every option, we're waiting for them. They're gone. The only thing is, it's a delusion that you don't even support conclusions that are most natural. That means no conclusions to convict a crime. This is a serious problem for the state of the spirit in this society and also, as I can see, in this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u5	Thank you. So, we got a clear answer that the process continues. Mr Jani Möderndorfer also wants to take this step.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u6	Dear President, colleague Meh has made a procedural proposal. It is more than clear that you have scissors and linen in your hands. Whether you put this to a vote or not, it is in your opinion, but we have heard procedural chatter by Mr. Tank, and I would certainly warn: President, we are here in the National Assembly because of a meeting convened by the opposition's request, and I find it extremely perverse, rude and unworthy that someone is using the example of this extraordinary meeting to refer to the difficulties and problems of this country that have occurred in the last week in order to account here in such a way that we refer to what the Government has done and what has not. I think it's unworthy, Mr. Tanko, it's really unworthy. You have every right to speak on this subject in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the request to which this meeting was addressed. However, if you are to take your glands and what the measures are, it seems unworthy to take advantage of the problems of Slovenians and Slovenes in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u7	Dear Mr Möderndorfer, I, of course, have the opportunity as president of the Rules of Procedure to suspend the meeting, but I cannot prevent the holding of an extraordinary meeting because the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure impose this on me. And it was also very correctly explained by the leader of the parliamentary group as proposing an extraordinary meeting to insist on doing so. However, I must also be very frank, and I propose that we may conclude with these discussions that a minute of silence today was in the National Assembly on the basis of a proposal from Members and Members of the opposition, and I have taken this into account. So this attitude towards the current situation in Slovenia should not be in the introduction to this session a relationship that we will begin to argue about, if I may say so. We have cleared up the procedural procedures, the meeting has to be held and will take place today. If possible, I propose that we conclude the procedural proposals here. He also has a procedural proposal, Mr Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u8	I suggest that in the spirit that you have begun this meeting with dignity, we also conduct this meeting. I just want to say that the Slovenian People's Party is in opposition, and Mr Möderndorfer, our signatures are not under this initiative. This meeting is held at the initiative of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u9	Thank you. We are ahead of our decision on the agenda for an extraordinary session. Once again, I just want to remind you to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, because we will decide on the agenda. Can we decide on the agenda? We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 3. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the agenda of the 54th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the top of the state's agenda, that is to say, in connection with the search for the worst forms of economic financial crime and in connection with the detection of suspects of the criminal acts of former times. The proposal for a decision was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased that you have ensured constitutionality and that you have not inherited even your party's proposal in order to act unconstitutionally and illegally. However, I must say that I am deeply disappointed that such a proposal is coming at all from the mouth of a member who considers the opposition a mafia. Indeed, Mr Meh was at a time when we were discussing real estate tax and when we were voting here in the National Assembly, and we announced obstruction, he said, "The Mafia is leaving." Let's go on the agenda and not sharpen. I think that would really be the best and the smartest thing to do. I believe that there are several reasons for calling this meeting, and already in the introduction to the attempt to prevent this meeting, it has been said that we have no conclusions and nothing. I don't think so. We have proposed six conclusions and I will only say three of these conclusions, but we will not vote on them. This is because it is precisely the coalition on the committee that prevented the adoption of certain elementary decisions or civilisation decisions, if you want, and therefore we will not discuss them, even though we have proposed them. We have proposed, say, a conclusion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia condemns the operation of the former State Security Service, which until the 1980s illegally and secretly kidnapped and killed domestic and foreign citizens. The Constitutional Court has stated how it feels about this organization. The first President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, said that he condemns, in writing, that he condemns the operation of this service and that the coalition was unable to support this proposal. That's why we don't have a conclusion. Otherwise, of course, we would have one. Even more. We have proposed – just one more for the sake of viewers: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do everything necessary to ensure that the relatives and descendants of the displaced persons find their remains and can bury them with dignity. The human race differs from the animal species by burying its dead. The coalition members on the committee were unable to vote in favour of such a civilisation decision. And that's why there'll be no conclusions. Let's go to the very request for an extraordinary session. I have to say that 15 minutes doesn't allow me to tell you everything, but then I have plenty of time and then I can explain some more information in peace. When we talk about the Slovenian prosecution, we need to put the Slovenian prosecutor's office in the mirror of Europe, and this is comparable and this is important. We have also heard the government preparing, I think, about EUR 1.8 million of extra money for the prosecution and so on, but the figures are still around the following. In Austria we have 2.6 prosecutors per hundred thousand inhabitants, in Italy 3.8 in Germany 6.2 and in Slovenia 9. This means that we have three times as many prosecutors as they have, say, in Italy or Austria. The number of cases against the individual prosecutor, the case against the individual prosecutor, is also very interesting. In order to resolve the Austrian prosecutor, one, at the annual level receives 2 000 821 cases, in Italy a thousand 317 in Germany 967, in Slovenia, pay attention, 519 or 6 times less than in Austria. What these prosecutors are creating, however, must be said as well. The Austrian prosecutor shall draw up 353 indictments at annual level. In Italy, 257 in Germany, 234 in Italy, 71 in Italy. So if we were to generalise, we could say that our prosecution is operating at about 30% of Europe's speed, maybe 35, but if we add any other rules that are in our possession, we could say that up to 40% are there. Everything else is going to shit. We are not comparable to Europe, that is a fact. However, the following must be said. We are deeply convinced that Dr. Zvonko Fischer, the Attorney General, is the fundamental problem. It's all going down from him. He taught us on the committee or he gave one lecture on how it is not acceptable that he is not here in Parliament when we discuss him and so on. In short, he said there was something wrong with our rules of procedure and so on. He went into things that didn't concern him, and he did moral lectures for us like the 1980s. But look, at the same time, I have to say, and this is very responsible to say that Dr. Bellnko Fisher, the Attorney General, is working illegally, and I will base this on the following. Just prior to the appointment of the Government of Janez Janša in 2012, one day earlier, a public invitation to tender was interrupted for the Director General of the State Attorney’s Office, who was a public tender and could be applied for by prosecutors. He interrupted, proposed to Minister Zalar the appointment of Boštjan Škrlec, the former secretary of state at the justice ministry. On February 10th, the government of Janez Janša would be appointed, and I had already said that this appointment had no legal basis. Then we carried out all the procedures and cancelled this appointment to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Skrlec complained to the Administrative Court. What did the Administrative Court say? I quote: "The appointment of Mr Boštjan Škrlec was illegal. Those who carried out this appointment are the State Prosecutor's Council, Minister Zalar and the Attorney General, who voluntarily exercised their authority." "By willful execution of the authority." It's a quote from the court's judgment. But what happened? Nothing happened. The State Prosecutor's Council has used one other article and Mr Škrlec is still sitting there, he is still there today. At that time, I submitted an application to the Commission to prevent corruption to clarify what was going on. However, I have overlooked that the Anti-Corruption Commission has already introduced a procedure before my application, and be careful, at this point, that the Anti-Corruption Commission has found that all these actors, Mr Zalar, Mr Fischer and the State Prosecutor's Council, have acted corruptly. It is said that they have acted corruptly, but we must not say it, it is forbidden to say it. In fact, there has been a complaint before the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court has held back, so I repeat: we must not talk about this because the Supreme Court has held back. It's been a year and a half since it's decided. The Supreme Court has decided as it has decided. Neither Zoran Jankovic nor Janez Janša had this right, not to publish any document. There the court said that everything was fine, that it was necessary to publish. But we've been waiting here for a year and a half for the Supreme Court to decide, and that's why we can't talk about them acting corruptly. That's a very interesting thing. Unless it goes otherwise, you're protected by the Supreme Court and we're waiting. Very much as we are waiting for, say, the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption in the matter of Mr Virant's flight map. Five numbers can't be checked in nine months. You can't. And what do we do with it? The anti-corruption commission is simply deciding what kind of government we will have in this country. And not this House. Let's move on to all the other stuff. Dr. Fisher sent me a call every 14 days through the media, and so on, in that time of the ministry, I'm delaying the appointment of the head of the D.A.'s office in Kranj as Attorney General. For two and a half months, the government of John Janša has not decided on this matter. It also seemed unhygienic to me that the last moments would have been set up by the state's attorneys before we left office. But watch out! But now it is nine months past and this lady is still not appointed, and Mr Fisher is silent as a grave. Shut up like a grave. There is no problem in not naming this lady as the Attorney General. But why doesn't that happen? Because this Head of Prosecutor's Office in Kranj has reached a little too close to Mrs Alenka Bratušek, in her influential circles, and now she cannot be the Attorney General's Attorney General. It's a very interesting thing. I will not continue because I will be running out of time, and then I will be performing, explaining all the stories around Mr Fojaker, who does not belong in the time of Mr Fischer, but at this time Mrs Hilda Too, who, as you know, has been in prison for 16 days illegally, for which we will pay around 16,000 euros in compensation. That's about the standard, and nobody's to blame. Nobody. Mr. Fisher even told the press when they asked him if you would step down and turn your eyes and say, "Yes, why? Please." And he spent 5,000 euros on those performances to teach him how to perform publicly, but they haven't taught him yet, because he was very much in my word too. We all know the mistake was made in the prosecution, but nothing happened. Nothing at all. If I move on. Finance. Since 2012, there has been a list of companies that have received so-called bad loans. It's about as much as we gave the recapitalisation of state banks. And look, something's happened, it's got to be admitted, some things have been done. Some criminal charges have been made, but all of these amounts do not exceed 200 million, and we're talking about 5 billion. One prosecutor has been working on the case since the beginning, this is Mr Kozina, six criminals. Today, there are a little more of these prosecutors than Mr Kozina said, there are up to four. But look, this is a very interesting thing. We have financial investigations in some cases that we know, and I ask, and I also asked the prosecutor on the committee how many financial investigations have been initiated for those 5 billion. We've lost 5 billion taxpayers' money. How many financial investigations have you initiated, I asked him, and in the middle of my performance he began to cry out, "I won't tell you this, I won't tell you this!" He was very handsome, I must confess. So at 5 billion, we won't get the data or he doesn't want to say it, but we do have a financial investigation somewhere else, like Mr. Janša's and someone else's. Instead of singled out 20 prosecutors from 180 prosecutors as many as he has, the police would be the appropriate number of criminals and would address the biggest problem in this country, which is a financial hole of 5 billion. No, it's not, but it's not very interesting for the Attorney General to be involved. There are a number of suspicions of Mr Fisher's political conduct. I'm only gonna name one because I'm running out of time. At the time of the meeting of this Parliament and when we formed the first attempt by Janković's government, then Janševa, the media reported on how he had travelled to Mr Kučan, then to Mr Türk, and Mr Türk did not choose Mr Janković, but sought a third person, and first announced that he would renew his mandate to Janković. Mr Fisher is supposed to mediate in this way. And I'm gonna end up at this point because I'm running out of time. I need another 15 minutes, I'm afraid I'm gonna benefit from that quota that goes there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u11	Thank you, too. The proposal for a decision shall be held at the 35th urgent meeting on 5. 2. 2014 treated the Committee on Justice as a parent working body. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a decision after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a decision was concluded at the working body meeting. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u12	Your Honor! A very nice welcome to all, on behalf of the Justice Committee, which, at its 35th urgent meeting on 5 February 2014, considered the draft decision on the situation at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office regarding the prosecution of the worst forms of economic financial crime and the detection of suspects of crimes of the former SDV or the State Security Service. The applicant presented key points in his introduction, as they have now been presented here. Among them, I would stress that there are only one state prosecutor, or only one state prosecutor, investigating the bank hole with the assistance of two other prosecutors, and that while the whole of Europe is investigating the former SDV or the secret services of the totalitarian regime of the former Yugoslavia, there is virtually no movement in Slovenia in this area. In his address, the Minister of Justice pointed out that the Ministry is obliged to provide material and human resources conditions for the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office, which falls within his jurisdiction. He drew attention to the commitments made by the Ministry with the Supreme Court and expected the same with the prosecution. He concluded that, as Minister himself, he wanted more effective leadership in the prosecution, although the legal conditions for it already exist, they only needed to be enforced, and thus concluded his words. The Attorney General continued to object to the meeting. He felt that this exceeded the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and that the State Assembly on the State’s Attorney’s Office had nothing to discuss. In particular, the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office of Mags responded to the opening words of the applicants. Mr Harij Furlan and the President of the State Prosecutor's Council, Alenka Mežnar, who also explained some of the events, as well as the Attorney General of Mag. Jože Kozina, who presented the persecution of the worst forms of financial economic crime, which mainly relates to the banking sector – said NLB and Factor Bank. However, Chief Prosecutor Mirko Vrtačnik said about the SDV that they were aware of some of the cases which they had dismissed to the competent prosecutor's office, namely the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana. He did not have any other information in this regard. Finally, after a discussion in which members of the coalition opposed the proposed decisions, the opposition also supported them because of the reverberation of some of these developments abroad, and because of the issue of Europe and European values, the committee voted and rejected all the proposed conclusions. Finally, on the basis of Rule 61 of the Rules of Procedure, it was agreed that the draft decision on the situation in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, concerning the prosecution of the worst forms of economic financial crime and the detection of suspects of crimes of the former SDV on the home working body, should be considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u13	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Senk Plitčanič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u14	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! What do people in Slovenia tell us today in the face of this natural disaster that has taken place? What is the main message given to us, to all of you who are sitting here today and who are in Slovenian politics? I think we all understand what: solidarity, cooperation, help. So, step together. This is the message we receive from Slovenia, where firefighters, policemen, the military and people help each other. And I think that today in this debate, as I have said so far, we should overcome this message that our people, on behalf of whom you are sitting here and we are all sitting together or doing this work, are giving us. They want and expect us to be different from the dominant pattern in all these years, to tackle all the issues that are important to them, to our people. And one such key issue is on the agenda today. Why is that a key question? Because it has to do with justice, with the rule of law, the issues that these same people who are able to help each other, and these are our citizens, our citizens, facing at the daily level. Every day they face these issues of justice, of the rule of law, whether the law is the same or not. And I wish, as I have repeatedly said, when I have the opportunity to do so and when someone wants to listen to me, that what we have in our country, among our people, is solidarity, cooperation, assistance to each other, will prevail in this Parliament and in general in Slovenian politics, that there is no longer this exclusion and this attack on any basis, ideologically or otherwise, worldwidely, because when it comes to the issue of justice, the rule of law, ideology or any other difference between us is irrelevant or must not be important. We need to come together, and these questions, even now that we are as a country in such a difficult situation, are of crucial importance to us. Many people tell me that this is a thought and so is a call to unity, to walk together, a naive illusion, and that this is not possible in this country. And I'm saying the other way around is that this is the only way to get out of the situation we're in. The only way is, and in these two years since I have been in Slovenian politics, and this also gives me the energy to continue to insist, is more and more of those I meet, even in Slovenian politics, who share this view of me. And I know I'm going to do everything in my power, and I've got a lot of you to do, so I'm going to keep spreading this around. Whoever wants to listen to me will be welcome, and there are, as I say, more and more. I urge you to try to get as far as possible out of this. Why? Because this is a message that our people give us day by day, even in situations like this natural disaster, when solidarity is even more than usual. When it comes to the issue of the State Prosecutor's Office, it is necessary to know that we are talking about a state authority that performs an extremely important function in our country and in all others, that is the prosecution of crimes. It is extremely important that, in the management of this task, this authority is independent in order to protect itself from any influence when it comes to the exercise of this basic function, namely the prosecution of offences, the decision whether or not to prosecute a crime and how it will prosecute it. So, any influence, political or any other. Political influences are often discussed – it is not necessarily political influences or political influences. Interests are different. And since it is clear to all of us how important this function is and how important it is that it is protected, this should also be taken into account when discussing some other aspects of the functioning of this State authority. These other aspects are the efficiency, speed and quality of his work, impartiality, legality of his work, work that must be done in such a way that no one is subject to any exception that they are all equal before the law. When it comes to these issues when it comes to the issue of efficiency, quality and everything I have mentioned, the legislative body and the government have important responsibilities in this regard, in such a way as to ensure that the relevant legislation allows the state prosecutor to exercise his or her independence in this regard and to ensure that the prosecutor can carry out his or her work in the manner that I have described. Responsibility also in this sense, because our citizens and citizens do not care about the sharing of powers between Parliament, between the executive branch, between the judiciary, where the prosecution is here. They expect a final result. They expect a fair, lawful, impartial work of the State Prosecutor's Office, where there is no exception. But we need to ensure this by working together. So when it comes to independence, I don't think there can be any dilemma here. The State Prosecutor's Office should be protected from any influence and this should also be taken into account in the discussions on these other aspects of the work of the State Prosecutor's Office, on efficiency issues, on speed, where we have, as the Government, whose representative I am, and you Members and Members as members of the legislative body, an important responsibility and competence. As we are aware of the importance of the role played by the State Prosecutor's Office in the Government, and of the fact that, over the past years, the State Prosecutor's Office has been faced with a lack of qualified staff, trained state prosecutors – I am particularly stressing the skills of the competent authorities because the crimes prosecuted by the State Prosecutor's Office are different. Those who are most important to us and to our people, economic crime, corruption, are particularly difficult and require a great deal of the skills of those who are being persecuted so that they can be persecuted and persecuted effectively. So, in this sense, to bring a case before a court and possibly to a conviction. In the Government, we have provided additional funds to the state prosecutor's office of €1.7 million to enable them to employ additional trained personnel, state prosecutors and others so that they can be even more effective and successful in the prosecution of crimes than they have been before. I myself estimate that in the last year, the state prosecutor's office has achieved a significant positive shift when it comes to the issue of efficiency, speed, processing of cases compared to previous years. At the same time, however, I consider that this is not enough. I expect from the State Prosecutor's Office, especially now that we as the Government have provided them with additional money for additional staff, additional state prosecutors, to be even more aware of their responsibilities than ever before, and to carry out their work responsibly, quickly, qualitatively, and once again, without exception, for all equally, in accordance with the principle of legality. It is particularly important for the Government and I think that, for all of our public, our citizens and citizens, the effectiveness of the state's prosecution, as I have already mentioned, to prosecute those most serious crimes related to economic crime and corruption. It's clear why. Because of everything that has happened in recent years since Slovenia's independence. Because of obviously large places, large interventions into common assets, which is why we are today as a country in the situation we are in. It is therefore very important that results be achieved here. Especially when it comes to taking away this property, which has apparently been stolen in large quantities in the past, from those who have stolen it. This enables the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, and especially here as the Government we expect the effective work of the State Prosecutor's Office, and of course also when it comes to corruption and crimes related to other types of economic crime. Finally, let me tell you my experience over the past two years, which basically referred, as you know, to the judiciary, which within the justice system is the basis of the justice system. The State's Attorney's Office is not an independent branch of power, like the judiciary. The judiciary is an independent branch of government and, in this regard, the most important element of the judicial system. As you know, in the past year as Minister of Justice, I did not have powers related to the State's Attorney's Office. I have you on this year's term. So, most of the time, since I've been in politics, I've been dealing with the issue of the judiciary and also here only with the issue of its effectiveness, including quality, and in particular efficiency, speed. And here experience has shown that it is very important, and I will not say anything new, because this applies to all systems, for businesses, for other organisations – so that it is very important to lead. If you want an organisation to be effective, it must be effectively managed. And in the Court of Justice, Mr Maslesa, President of the Supreme Court, with a responsible attitude, contributed greatly to this important shift in the reduction of court proceedings and judicial backlogs in the last year, two. I wish the same thing would happen in the state's attorney's office. I think that the leadership of something that will need to be given more attention in the State Prosecutor's Office, but I will also propose legislative changes if I decide that this is necessary, which would further increase the efficiency of the leadership of the State Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u15	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Let me first, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, say that I feel very bad about today's extraordinary session and also about the debate that will follow the course of the day, while many of our citizens are dealing with the disastrous consequences of the natural grip that has overtaken us in recent days. Perhaps it is even good that many of today's meetings will not be able to be monitored at all, not because they want to hide something from citizens and not because of today's topic, but because the debates in this Chamber are all too often turned into political accounting or marketing for individual political parties, which does not have much to do with finding solutions for a better tomorrow. The Slovenian human party does not want to join the theme. Our goal is to do something good for this country. We want people to have jobs, wages, to have the means to live and to have faith in a better future for our offspring. We want our country to be a social state and a rule of law for everyone. In fact, what surrounds us is payment indiscipline, failure to prosecute economic crime, lengthy judicial proceedings, procedural complications, corruption, low trust in the rule of law, or the sense of two legal states, one for elites and one for small people. This is only a fraction of the state of Slovenian justice, which we have already pointed out in the Slovenian People's Party in the past. Today's topic is the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, but in the Slovenian People's Party we believe that justice should be seen as a whole, as we also pointed out in June last year at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the topic of the state of justice. Even then there were many debates about where to look for the causes of the problems of Slovenian justice, why almost no one believes in the right and justice of our country, why the ideal of equality before the law remained just an ideal. In our search for answers to these questions, we have often come to the attention of politicians that the independence of all three branches of government should prevent us from dealing with justice, from defining one way or another, or from considering the justice system. In the Slovenian People's Party, we respect the constitutional provision on the independence of the judiciary and we do not intend to put ourselves in the role of a judge in specific matters, because this is not our task, but above all, an objective and fair trial is the responsibility of someone else. As elected representatives of the people, however, we have the right and duty, honourable Members and Members, to protect and guarantee, within our powers, the framework for the exercise of constitutionally defined rights, such as the right to equality before the law, the right to judicial protection, the right to a trial within a reasonable time and so on. We citizens are justifiably dissatisfied when we see procedures for some running slowly and for others surprisingly fast. Some procedures never come to an end, outdated or obsolete execution of penalties. Are the procedures dependent on the last name or the thickness of the wallet? That's definitely what we're worried about. Has anything changed since last June? Not much. Has anything changed in the D.A.'s office? Most of them still occupy their chairs. Of course, we are also concerned about the information provided by the proposer of today’s session. The European Commission's data on the effectiveness of justice shows that we have an extremely large number of prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants in the Republic of Slovenia. Austria has 2.6 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants, Italy 3.8, Germany 6.2, and Slovenia has 9 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants. It is also disproportionate to the number of cases that belong to the individual prosecutor at the annual level. For example, in Austria, prosecutors at the annual level accept 2 000 821 cases and in Italy a thousand 317 in Germany 967, and in Slovenia only 519 cases. According to the number of indictments against the prosecutor at the annual level, Slovenia also stands out. On average, the Austrian prosecutor writes 353 indictments at the annual level and in Italy 257, in Germany 234, in Slovenia only 71. Will yesterday's information to the government to allocate an additional €1.7 million for the salaries and material costs of the prosecution change what? Prosecutors say that there are too few of them, that the staff pressure is such that they may not be present even in court proceedings and that matters are therefore left in checkouts. Comparison statistics with other countries once again show a completely different picture. What is right and what is true? The truth is for sure that Slovenian justice has problems. In the Slovenian People's Party, before this fact, we have never covered our eyes and closed our mouths, and so it will remain in the future. We are in the National Assembly because citizens and citizens expect us to do everything we can to finally fix the mistakes and injustices of the past, not to repeat ourselves and to wake up to a better future tomorrow. Part of this better future is also a higher standard of the rule of law, including and especially in practice, but not just in theory. The Minister of Justice, Dr. Senko Pličanič, has said several times that he is aware of the problems that Slovenian justice has and that he has solutions, so we also ask him and expect him to bring amendments to the National Assembly as soon as possible, so that we can carry out our part of the duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You could say, well, let's do the drill again. In June and July last year, at the request of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, the National Assembly addressed a similar issue. We spoke in June about the state of Slovenian justice and in July about the state of democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. As you read the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, you will soon find that the purpose of today's meeting is not to establish the actual situation at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, but rather to throw pollen under the feet of the coalition, and in particular to promote the largest opposition party. The last one in the DeSUS Group was already pointed out at a July extraordinary session when we talked about democracy in our country. Let me repeat the words of Václav Havel, the last President of Czechoslovakia and the first President of the Czech Republic, whom I quoted in the position of the Group of Members at that time. I quote: "Political parties treat the country as their servant. Customer officials often abuse the country by using state resources to create their own promotion opportunities." In considering the reason for today's meeting, I cannot go beyond the words of the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša, at the verdict of the Court of First Instance, that he will use all legal and political means to dismiss this judgment. That's what Mr. Janša said at the time. I wonder whether the SDS Group, out of loyalty to its President, may not exercise the right to request the convening of extraordinary meetings as a political means of defaming the reputation of the Slovenian judiciary and the prosecution. Over the events in the National Assembly in the sense of calling all these extraordinary meetings on political and extremely sensitive topics, with regard to opening ideological themes and fostering hostility, we are very concerned and disappointed in the DeSUS Group. Can such an attitude and way of working really help to resolve the economic situation in the country and to address greater political stability, especially the plight of citizens and citizens? Yesterday, 6 February, 129 thousand 843 unemployed persons were registered at the Employment Service of the Republic of Slovenia. There were only 864 job vacancies published. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I ask you, what solutions have you proposed in the last year to reduce the number of unemployed? Maybe some measures to create new jobs, to start an economy? Have you listened to young people and helped them find concrete solutions to improve their situation? I'm afraid not. It's the other way around. By making and reviving conflicts from past or past history, you only increase differences among people, force salt on unhealed wounds, and awaken pessimism, and disappointment. While we are discussing important issues at this time, Slovenia is struggling with the consequences of the worst catch in history. On Sunday and Monday, 250,000 people were without electricity. The water supply was busy, and most of the schools and kindergartens were closed. About 40,000 customers have been out of electricity for a bad week. Because of broken trees, there are at least 6000 330 kilometres or more than half of all forest roads connecting many settlements and farms in the country. According to the first estimates, 42 percent of the forest’s total area is affected with an ache. The damage in electricity distribution is estimated at 37 million euros on rail infrastructure at around 20 million euros. Yesterday, around 3 000 600 firefighters and more than 400 fire brigades, 300 civil protection representatives, 500 soldiers and a thousand 900 commercial workers participated in the removal of the consequences of the natural disaster. More than a thousand NGO activists also helped. The bite also required the first death victim. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that this is a topic that we should discuss today, respected and respected. People on the ground in these difficult times don't care about political divisions, about ideology. They are fighting for survival, and we Slovenians have once again shown how self-sacrifice and solidarity we can be. But I'm afraid we can't overcome these values in the National Assembly. Now is not the time to divide left and right, to discuss suspects of crimes former SDV or spit on Slovenian justice. Now is the time for solidarity. I stress the time for solidarity, hope, cooperation, and especially hard work. In the face of the ongoing economic crisis, Slovenia must now face disasters and the consequences of a natural disaster. Instead of talking today in the National Assembly about concrete solutions to the actual problems of our citizens and citizens who have been in severe distress, we are dealing with a topic that is extremely inappropriate and untasteful during this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I did not want to interrupt the debate on behalf of the Group of Members, but it is a fact that we have a second item on the agenda. I know that we cannot avoid these discussions. Last but not least, we dedicated the session to the memory of a deceased volunteer or a relief worker. But I think it would be right for us to try to remain content in further discussions and not interfere with the natural disaster that I am sure we will talk about in the National Assembly. The Defence Committee has already been convened, and the subject will be addressed, I expect to be on the other bodies as well. One of them has already held this debate, agriculture and probably infrastructure. Mr Jožef Jerovšek wants to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not object to the fact that Members or the Group of Members take these contents away. I expected that. It's probably an agreement in the coalition to blur the subject with this and try to make the applicants obsolete. But I'm protesting because the government didn't let an extraordinary meeting happen yesterday. We should get the information. In all countries where a natural disaster occurs, Parliament shall immediately address the consequences. Last week, the Italian Parliament dealt with floods that were not as large a national disaster as our stomachs, but our government does not act in an up-to-date manner, nor does it inform Parliament that we could also accept the legal basis for this and force the Government to solve the problems. Now you're trying to bring in a second topic, each of which has its own president in the government. They're not responding to what happened. Everyone notices that, for example, the military intervened substantially too late and that it was at the barracks when it was supposed to act, even though it had to come to the call, but of course it should come. Mr President, I ask you to inform the President of the Government that she is acting irresponsiblely because she did not propose an extraordinary session of Parliament last night to provide information. We were together in England on a visit to Parliament, and you know that there is an opportunity, and there is no possibility for us to have the opposition demand the government's position on some serious matter overnight, in a moment. But with us, since the opposition does not have this business option, the government should remember for itself. That is why hypocrisy is what government Members do, that now crocodiles cry through another point. We must have a special session on what happened in Slovenia, about the natural disaster, and this is the responsibility of the Government and the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u21	Thank you for your procedural proposal, but once again I would like to point out that the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment has already addressed some of these developments in nature. The Defence Committee has been convened, and I also expect the Government's comprehensive report to forward it as soon as possible to the National Assembly, so that we can also agree on how to deal with this report in order to be as effective as possible in recovery. I next give the floor to Mrs Ludmili Novak, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! How can we improve citizens' confidence in the rule of law, which is strongly shaken in the public? According to the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, confidence in the rule of law will only be created in people if justice works in accordance with their mission, this is the exercise of justice in society. This mission of justice can only be realized by cultivating an acute sense of justice and proving it on specific occasions. This feeling is not only a matter of professionalism, but is a moral and ethical thing that holds everyone who works in justice, and especially officials in the highest positions. The good and effective functioning of each body is important for confidence in the rule of law. The State Prosecutor's Office, as an integral part of the judicial branch of power until its recent mission, is the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes, has not done so to the extent expected. Over the past few years, there has been a particularly neglected area of prosecution of white collar crime, in particular economic and banking crime and corruption and money laundering crimes, which have become more widespread in our country in recent years. This phenomenon has also been largely facilitated by the policy of prosecution of the State Prosecutor's Office. Until the middle of last year, this has focused to the greatest extent on the prosecution's pursuit of classical crime, which is certainly easier work and results better in terms of statistics. Thus, people have a strong belief that the law enforcement authorities are engaged and are effective only in hot thieves, while they are completely ineffective in the pursuit of economic crime. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, in presenting the annual reports on the work of the State Prosecutor for 2011 and 2012 the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office has always pointed out the necessary priorities for working in the field of economic crime, but these warnings were taken by the Prosecutor's Office as unacceptable policy pressure on the work of prosecutors. In determining the policy of prosecution, the role of the Attorney General is crucial. Under the Public Prosecutor's Act, it is the Attorney-General who is responsible for determining the policy of prosecution. The role of the Attorney-General is therefore of paramount importance, since the person taking over this function must monitor the adverse phenomena in society and, in accordance with the risk of pre-eminent deviant behaviour, establish a law enforcement policy on an up-to-date basis and determine the priorities and intensity of the work of the Public Prosecutor in specific areas. It is in this part that we can report to the Attorney-General that he has missed his priority by setting priorities. It was only after a number of policy warnings and also the pressure of the public and the media that the Attorney General adopted a new law enforcement policy. Finally, an act of prosecution policy is published on the Public Prosecutor's Office's website, which correctly sets out the priorities of the work of the State Prosecutor's Office, but only for a period from mid-2012 onwards. However, it can be said that the prosecution has been late for several years with the necessary intensive work in this area, and thus also has a responsibility for the situation in the country in the area of economy, banking and financial markets. In New Slovenia we are aware that only repression is not the only effective measure to prevent economic and banking crime. However, if repression is used in due time and to the right degree, it has an important impact on deterring potential offenders from infringements and abuse of regulations. And in order to achieve the general preventive purpose of prosecution, the State Prosecutor's Office has been delayed for several years. The Attorney-General responsible for the regulation and implementation of the law enforcement policy must be responsible for delays in this area. If there has been some movement in the area of economic crime in the last two years, however, we are concerned about the situation in the area of bank crime prosecution, where there is a 5 billion-dollar hole or more. This is largely the result of criminal acts by bankers and grey eminents of the banking system. It has been a year and a half since the Attorney General was informed of the situation in the banking system with the confidential report of the Bank of Slovenia, from which the suspicions of services of many crimes have followed, and so far very little or almost nothing has happened in this area. We read in the media that one was provided to conduct investigations in this area and then three. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, we have heard that there are now five prosecutors working in the area of bank crime investigations, while a year and a half have passed without the initiation of criminal proceedings on one single case. The excuses from the prosecution are that the time of the swift courts has passed that the management and the middle management of the bank, specifically the NLB, do not want to participate in investigations and that there is still some technical means to be obtained so that investigations can take place and so on. According to Christian Democrats, we have fairly modern and European comparable criminal and procedural legislation, which provides the police and the prosecution with sufficient tools to effectively prosecute even the most serious forms of banking crime – if only the prosecutor's office were sufficiently engaged. The Attorney-General has also failed in this field of his mission. Apparently, at the time of receipt of the report, he did not know whether or not he wanted to assess how much of the staff resources he needed to direct the investigations. The next observation that the prosecution cannot avoid is the slow implementation or, rather, the failure to enforce the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. This law was adopted on 2 November 2011 and applied on 30 May 2012. At the time of the adoption of the law until its entry into force, it was time for the Attorney-General to provide the necessary personnel and material resources for the implementation of the law, i.e. to carry out appropriate redeployments of experienced state prosecutors, to ensure possible new employment and also to provide the necessary education for the effective start of the implementation of the law. This clearly did not involve the Attorney-General in much of his work, nor would it have been possible that no action had been brought to confiscate assets of illegal origin in 2012. However, only two insurance proposals were submitted. We are now hearing excuses from the prosecutions that the law is incomplete, that investigative procedures are extensive and similar. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia are convinced that, with appropriate preparations for the implementation of the law, even in Slovenia, as early as 2012, when the law began to apply, several ten claims and insurance proposals would be filed, on the basis of which the court could have already completed certain proceedings for the confiscation of property of illegal origin. Thus, after almost two years, we are still on the ground and still at the very beginning. The state of affairs in this area is also the responsibility of the Attorney-General. Nor can we pass the well-founded criticism of the Attorney-General in the area of prosecution of perpetrators of crimes in cases of post-war beatings and also of the crimes committed by members of the former State Security Service in the period before 1990. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, we received an explanation by the Deputy State Prosecutor-General that they, namely, the State Attorney's Office, are not engaged in operational work and that the cases have been dismissed in the resolution of the District Attorney's Office. This is obviously the end of the case for the Attorney General. His attitude toward such serious and unscrupulous crimes seems to us not only unscrupulous but also unscrupulous. These crimes must not remain unexplored and unpunished, regardless of who committed them. This also applies to those who worked in the State Security and the Udba during the totalitarian period, and in any way participated in the liquidation of innocent people, either at home or abroad. These are criminals who must be punished regardless of their merely obeying orders. The judicial authorities in Slovenia, in connection with the investigation of these liquidations, have unfortunately not yet carried out their task. The numerous post-war killings that took place in a few weeks remained unpunished because of the regime's functioning of justice, despite the fact that almost a percent of the people of the Slovenian population lost their lives in the then killings. To this day, nothing has changed. We expect the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia from the judicial authorities or from the State Prosecutor's Office to finally start their work in this area. Today, the living leaders of the former regime, who were directly in charge of the State Security Service, can contribute most to the detection of SDV and Udba's criminal activities. Procrastination by investigating these crimes means the loss of the possibility of obtaining significant evidence of crimes committed by former regime officials and members of the SDV. The debate on the work of the State Prosecutor's Office, and in particular the debate on the work and responsibility of the Attorney-General, is therefore still necessary, and we expect Christian Democrats to bring concrete results and movements in the areas in which we have pointed out this position. It is true that many of our citizens are now struggling to survive. An ice disaster will have severe consequences. Unfortunately, however, the government will spend only €317 000 599 for rescue, almost nothing for voluntary firefighters, for advisers at a bad bank of 3.6 million and for a bank hole of about 6 billion. All of this and such relationships are also due to the fact that the prosecution did not act in a timely manner to stop the scourge of misdemeanours in the past. Now the money is running out to save the people of Slovenia who are in great trouble.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u23	Thank you. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! While we have been facing one of the worst natural disasters of recent years in our country this week and thousands of households are still cut off from the world or without electricity and heating, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia we are reunited with one of the many extraordinary meetings called upon by the SDS party. On the basis of newspaper articles, particularly those from Democracy and Reporter, it is intended to discuss and discuss many of the previously processed affairs of intelligence services in the time of the former country, suspected crimes in 1976, 1984 and so forth, and for the sake of archives. The proposed conclusions of the applicant also represent a written collage of the above topics, which had to be addressed by three working bodies. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly stated that some significantly exceed the competences of this National Assembly, while others are either imperfect or unnecessary. On this basis and on the basis of the discussions, all the conclusions at the meeting of the parent working body were rejected. Thus, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion, stated that, in accordance with the rule of law, it is necessary to take into account that the National Assembly may only propose to other bodies those measures which fall within the competence of individual bodies and must respect their constitutional and legal independence and independence. The Legislative and Legal Service also points out that certain conclusions are flawed or unnecessary. On the basis of legal powers, individual state authorities are obliged to act by law and not only on the proposal of the National Assembly. It is also within their competence to determine whether the circumstances justifying the initiation of the exercise of certain powers have already been provided. The first conclusion of the proposed conclusions relates to the situation in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, which is a serious topic, but the discussion on the home labour body developed a more personal discreditation of Dr. Zvonk Fischer, who, by the way, was not appointed under our government, but under the government of Borut Pahor. And if there was just any possibility, the SDS of the Attorney General would probably just be interpreting. Even in Positive Slovenia, we feel that justice as a whole in the past has not reacted quickly enough and efficiently to some of the deviant phenomena in society. The rapid reaction and possible convictions are preventive and can prevent the continuation of deviant behaviour. As in many areas in our country, of course, the state of the prosecution is not optimal. It could be better, but there's no way we can talk about it being catastrophic. In order to improve the situation, it is clear from many trends and also from the annual reports of the State Prosecutor's Office, which have already been discussed and discussed by the home committee. In 2013, prosecutors reached 20% or around 1,000 convictions more than in the year before, and the number of complaints was 3% higher and the number of complaints filed was 1% higher. The number of lawsuits with prosecutors increased by 23% and 4000 complaints. The changes are also observed by citizens. On the basis of this, it is clear that the situation is improving and trends are improving. In this respect, further efforts will also be made by the Government. Among other things, this government has adopted a new Law on Courts and Law on Judicial Service, an undertaking with the judiciary has been signed, and specialised groups have been established in the field of economic and financial crime under the leadership and direction of state prosecutors. The grounds for addressing the priority are bank due diligence reports, police own activity and complaints received. Recently, all those considered untouchable, including Bine Kordez, Hilda However, Robert Timer, Darius South, Ivan Zidar, Dušan Črnigoj, Happy Friend, Boris Popovic, Pavel Rupar, at the first stage also Brane Gorše, Igor Bavčar, Boško Šrot, once again Timer and Montenegro, Franz Kangler and two former Prime Minister of the Government. So much for nothing that's ever happened before. In doing so, I would like to point out that the government of Alenka Bratušek has allocated an additional 1.7 million funds to the prosecution two days ago by redistributing the funds. With these funds, they will be able to employ 100 additional people, 30 of them prosecutors. And even on a team investigating banking crimes, there's enough personnel right now, because it's the focus of police investigation. That it is not possible to talk about improving the situation, it is not true. However, if the National Assembly had adopted the proposed conclusions, it would have exceeded its powers and interfered with the independence and independence of the Authority, in this case the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. With regard to the decision relating to the archive, I must point out that the amendment to the law on the protection of documentary and archival materials adopted at the January session does not close access to archives, but, on the contrary, facilitates access to archival material. The adopted novels allow Slovenian archives to be more accessible than ever before, and this is precisely in the field of personal data, as some people are reading most. As regards the third set of decisions concerning the operation of secret services. In our view, this reference to an extraordinary meeting as had been used many times before to abuse the National Assembly in order for some in politics to take the right to judge or even judge whether in the previous regime crimes have been committed, who has committed them, who knew about them, or to accuse certain individuals, such as the former President of the State, who has been charged by the applicant and its President since the independence of the country. The possible crimes committed in the past are strongly condemned, but the trial and conviction of such crimes must be entrusted to our legal order. It is certainly not appropriate to make this a policy and a political verdict, based solely on individual archival documents and assessments designed by individuals who qualify themselves as amateur historians, is said to be individuals without adequate education and professional qualifications for the conviction and prosecution of criminal offences. In doing so, the political accused have neither the right to an adequate explanation nor the knowledge of the material which all these acts reveal to them. Such consideration of matters in the National Assembly promotes lustration policy, encourages divisions in society, revenge and hatred, which Members and Members of the National Assembly should not afford after 24 years of independence. In line with this, we believe that historians should speak of history and that any crimes are investigated by those responsible, and not only by those who seem to be most important to the SDS. Politics and the National Assembly should adopt legislation, which is also our original function. In a specific case, all necessary legislative changes have already been adopted, so there is no need for them to be adopted quickly at this extraordinary meeting. Positive Slovenia also has an acute existence of all politically motivated crimes committed on behalf of the former regime and also expects the relevant authorities to respond accordingly. I conclude by realizing that we have 8 hours and 20 minutes before us without a vote, as we have done many times before, without conclusions and without any concrete solutions. In this mandate, the SDS has repeatedly requested urgent meetings of working bodies and extraordinary meetings of the State Assembly with a strong result. If we consider their pretentiousness, the final result was largely a waste of time, which could be used more productively, specifically to address the current disaster or to take the necessary measures to start the economy. When the new government began to operate, the National Assembly, at the request of the opposition, including today’s meeting, held nine extraordinary meetings or on average once a month. If we add up all the time spent needlessly, so far there have been about 56 hours of debate, including today's 64. That is why we do not believe in this case in Positive Slovenia that it is a well-intentioned measure to improve the functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office. Individual findings and findings have been widely discussed in the past, both in the state of justice and in the state of democracy, in the archives, in the functioning of the former State Security Service and so on. Positive Slovenia does not want to deal with the past. Instead of looking back into the future, we do not want to open up questions about the interpretations of past history. We appreciate that the opposition is performing its function, but we want a constructive opposition, not one that blocks the functioning of the government and the state. And we wish the opposition would also let the dead lie in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I also wish everyone a very good greeting on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party and SDS Group as a whole! That the state of justice, which is non-European and inadequate, and also in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office, is a key development issue for Slovenia, the European Union has warned us twice twice in a year alone. For the first time in spring with the Council of Europe's special positions, which were published in agreement with the European Commission, where it was explicitly stressed that ineffective and non-European-functioning justice is one of the key reasons for Slovenia's developmental backlog, and guidance was given on how to reconcile the situation in the field of Slovenian justice with European standards and the way Europe works, with what Europe thus sees as modern law and with European values. A special problem is the State's Attorney's Office. While the prosecution is more in the executive branch of power, in relation to the judiciary, the non-European one, of course, means a severe developmental bar. A country where European values are not respected becomes a red exot in the eyes of foreign investors, and from red ext, every normal investor, every entrepreneur looking for someone to do business, runs away. And this is one of the key reasons why the state of Slovenia is experiencing, now the only, a setback even as predicted for the following years in the European Union. Everyone else is already on the path to recovery, only the country of Slovenia is predicting a setback. So it's a crucial, crucial developmental issue. Mrs. Kociper, who just got out, is going to have to look the truth in the eye one day. Europe's comments are more than well-intentioned. They want to have a good business partner, they want to have what Slovenia should be, and what it could be if it had European functioning justice, if it had a European functioning prosecutor's office, and if it had consistently respected European values. That's the point of the problem. Because why were they working so hard in the coalition today that there would be no discussion at all? And thank the President of the National Assembly for not succumbing to these pressures. Why, ladies and gentlemen?Oh, my God! In order not to expose how shameful they were at the meeting of the Justice Committee. When European values arise, the problem of the transition left, at least the vast majority of them, is that it is an endless exercise. When we proposed appropriate conclusions, consistent with European values based on European values, everyone said: yes, because we are for this, but you know, the form is not right, it should be a slightly different form. We are not sure if we are on the right committee, so we will vote against it. And that you will know what they voted against in a well-respected coalition, I will read them. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia condemns the operation of the former State Security Service, which, until the end of the 1980s, unlawfully and secretly kidnapped and murdered domestic and foreign citizens." And the entire coalition voted against it. Well, the coalition supports that. Very interesting. This is a direct vote contrary to the resolution on European values, the European consciousness and totalitarianism adopted by the European Parliament and voted for by all Members from Slovenia, but when we wanted to confirm it in this Parliament, all of you from the transitional left have unitedly taken the view that you will not vote for it and voted against it. You've only come to know each other, but you've obviously misinformed yourself, ladies and gentlemen, because the fact that every crime needs to be revealed is a European norm, and the murders, the crimes of the former secret services of the totalitarian regime, those of the Yugoslavs under the leadership of the Slovenians, unfortunately, as well as of the Slovenians, are now being dealt with by an investigative apparatus in Austria, Germany, most of the European Union, only in Slovenia, because the situation in the state prosecutor's office is as – non-European. But if it does, it's lying out there in a drawer somewhere. No one has been able to inform us about this only by obtaining some information, as the Attorney General has said, and this has been waived by one of the local authorities. The coalition then voted against the next decision, voting against European values. This is crystal clear from this conclusion. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, the police and the Ombudsman to do their utmost to ensure that the crimes of the former SDV are fully cleared and their perpetrators brought to justice." So, re-voting on European values and more, voting on whether Slovenia should respect its own constitution or whether the rule of law should be in full force in Slovenia. This is the content of this decision and the coalition voted against! It is therefore interested that European values are not respected, that the rule of law does not work and that it does not work in accordance with the Constitution! Let him pack it up as he pleases. This is a real reflection of their vote. In politics, they count acts, not words! Acting is a voice that you press or give when you vote for a solution. Finally, most embarrassingly, the last of the proposed conclusions: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do whatever is necessary to ensure that the relatives and descendants of the displaced persons find their remains and can finally be buried with dignity." Fundamental human ethics, the vote on fundamental human ethics, and the coalition voted against. So, the coalition is that in Slovenia some are not subject to the principles of fundamental human ethics. That is why you have worked so hard today that there would be no such session that this national disgrace, represented by your own conduct and demeanor, would not be exposed. You tell Europe one face when it comes to what you should do in your own country, and then you find a thousand and one reason not to do it, because you don't want to do it. One said when referring to the opinion of the Legal Service of the National Assembly: yes, but we would propose a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution, the content of which was exactly that, the European values to condemn all crimes, to express respect for victims and to call for a conviction and investigation in accordance with European standards to condemn criminals – such a resolution was proposed in this Parliament in 1996 and, if you want to know, I wrote it. But what happened? Exactly the same scene as today, ladies and gentlemen. We supported her. All our then Members — unfortunately I did not have this opportunity myself — were not Members of Parliament. And the transition left has done exactly what you do now. She said: we absolutely agree, we support everything, we just don't know if it's a very good formula, but otherwise we're absolutely for. And when there was a vote, it was exactly half if the memory didn't deceive me. One vote was lost and the resolution was never adopted. And there was a resolution, what you wanted. The second time the European Parliament resolution, which was the basis of European values – this is the resolution on what the fundamental values of Europe are – the resolution of European consciousness and totalitarianism, the picture was repeated. We have proposed to support it. This is a decision that you have strongly rejected. So you are against European values, and you have shown this again today and for the last time at the Committee's meeting even more. All those who were unable to follow those meetings of the committee, please see the video, as it is on the RTV Slovenia website. At least this remains as a sad witness to this national disgrace of disrespect for European values. So, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to voting, that's the story, and that's the problem. If, then, we have a prosecutor's office that does not act in accordance with European values, it is clear that the whole system does not work as it should. Then there's the court, whatever it is. The issue of justice has also been pointed out by the European Union, but I will leave it at that moment. But if nothing happens there, if the prosecution has already rejected everything, if it is endlessly investigating certain things or if things such as one case were – I remember it from the past years when it came to the issue of the former SDV or postwar events in Slovenia. But there was so much waiting and it was said that even those who could be interrogated would not be heard, and the matter was put away again. And now you're closing the archives. What is the essence of this law on changing archives? All Europe had the norm to respect the rights of those who were victims, and the rights of third parties not to be made public, to black out all of that, to be deleted, to be anonymised. And now you want to enforce the same thing for criminals. This is no longer a European norm, ladies and gentlemen, because all the laws that have been adopted on this subject, German, Czech and other, have a specific provision in place – these are also the applicable laws of the European Union at this moment – that for those who have violated human rights, this protection does not apply, since nothing can be presented to the public anymore, nothing can be divulged, nothing can be investigated. The basis of the resolution on European consciousness is precisely that it is said that this must be said that this must be investigated in order not to repeat history. Here, too, when you are looking for extremists – every extreme is worth judging if it is violent, if it calls for violence, but the embarrassing situation is if in Slovenia there are unknowingly many days talking about right-wing extremists, about the fact that left-wing extremists have killed some 100,000 people on Slovenian soil, but it is not being said or investigated at all, the archives are closed so that they do not know. A little awkward situation is that. And if the State Prosecutor's Office does not act in accordance with its standards, then there is a big question about what country we live in. This is what Europe reminds us of, this is non-European. Those who want to look for a business partner will find a country that will be convinced that the values he respects are consistently respected that, if you want, his business interest is adequately protected by proper conduct, by the European conduct of the prosecution and justice. However, from a country that is a red exot, and so do you, all such people flee, and this is one of the fundamental reasons for the developmental stalemate facing Slovenia in the last few years. At that time, Germany had the entire development cycle. They had periods when they already had 4, 5 and even more percentage growth, and Slovenia had only fallen. And at the moment that it seemed that the patient had been cured, this was the period of the government of Janez Janša at the beginning of this mandate, when all Europe said that what this government had done was a miracle, it quickly made a political game, abused the institution of this country and replaced this government with the most unsuccessful government in the history of independent Slovenia, whose only success was to lie about what you even through the teeth of the transitional left, when you said: yes, because the worse government than the government of Borut Pahor. But this one is even worse, much worse, because it's also a worse coalition. This is a real situation, ladies and gentlemen, and I am not surprised that you have also refused to do what is perfectly compatible with the law, proper control, that you have refused to provide adequate human resources solutions to the prosecution and that this would accelerate the resolution of the problem because it would make Slovenia comparable to Europe. Normally, you are against it because you are against European values, and you have proved this by voting on those conclusions that I read earlier, and you have already proved this several times in the past period. Then what does this mean in practice is well seen in a billion-dollar hole. It's called a hole. Translated into Slovenian by the average person, this is wasted and stolen when we talk about Slovenian banks. By the way, these banks have once been rehabilitated by taxpayers’ money, and this has once again appeared in worse form — for those who may have forgotten it. And by the disappearance of a few billion money, she tried, on the one hand, even with some spin, to praise this government. It was said that this is not as bad as some have predicted. Yeah, how's that not bad? You only took four of the biggest banks and found 4.7 billion holes. If you consider everything else from Gorenjska banka to all others and those you want to liquidate, say Probanka, Factor Banka, and all the other instruments you had in stock, it's 6 billion quickly and even something over here can be charged. And that's what you're bragging about. In every normal country, the next day the government falls, and 20 thousand people are in front of the government, demanding that it go. And we say, "It's not that bad." And what did the state's attorney do? The State Prosecutor's Office has been given timely warning of these problems and this has given precisely this to one prosecutor, who now, with the help of two others, coordinates the investigation of these stories. And things don't come anywhere. What are the absolute out-of-date deadlines? Probably not too much to explain. But when it comes to a trivial matter that we smile at in front of Europe, it can be processed very quickly. But this is about billions. These billions will be paid by taxpayers. Do you know what this means for every citizen? At least 3,000 euros, if you count, out of every taxpayer's pocket. In the end, however, the sum will probably be even higher, because you have decided, by the way, not to do so with the European fund, which is for this purpose and which has only a 0.25% interest rate, but you will prefer to speak further about how you maintained sovereignty, going to be in debt at 5, 6, 7% interest rates. And the more we are in charge, the less sovereign we will be, ladies and gentlemen. And you just explain to the faithless what that means in practice. Time will lay everything on solid foundations. So, it's about development, ladies and gentlemen, it's about money. What Murphy's marriage says, whatever they're telling you, it's always about money. And in this case it is. Why has it not been done in an appropriate manner in some cases? Cases are argued here, they are listed. Apparently, it wasn't in anybody's best interest. Apparently, someone's not in the right interest today. Why do some things stand by, while others seem to be given very great weight and advantage? It is precisely this that we should go according to some European criteria, that everyone should be equal before the law and that every crime, every violation of the law, should be treated in the same way. We all probably know very well in this country that this is not the case right now. And this is what Europe reminds us of. Because it is not in line with European values. And that is why our development is lagging behind, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we pay billions because the institution of the State is being misused for political accounting, for the enrichment of certain individuals, while looking through their fingers, while not acting on the obvious things that even the media are writing about, and by the way, also at the committee I am leading, the Justice Committee, one of the members of the coalition said extremely sneeringly: what are we going to talk about now about what the media are writing? In Slovenia, too, the media has exposed some very large companies. And interestingly enough, when the media put themselves in the city they're going to, because research journalism is something that needs to be appreciated and respected and what we should cultivate, it's said: we're not going to talk about it in the National Assembly. Moreover, the Attorney General, Dr. Fisher, in his opening remarks, proved only two — that he understood his position as political because he changed his opening address to teaching what we could and did not do, and then, worst of all, he allowed himself the statement that we had nothing to comment on the work of the State Prosecutor’s Office. Excuse me? You know, freedom of speech happens to be a constitutional right. If anyone has ever persecuted people for verbal delinquency, that period has ended, ladies and gentlemen, and I give everyone such a good morning. We live in the European Union, where one of the fundamental values of fundamental freedoms is freedom of speech from fundamental constitutional requirements, which Parliament is dedicated to. Parliament is not just meant to adopt laws, as laymen are likely to imagine. One of the key tasks of Parliament, which is unfortunately completely in the background in Slovenia, is the control function that the current coalition is hampering in every way possible. And how we have in Parliament not only the right, but also the duty to say about any institution in this country that does not act in accordance with European values, its opinion. And this will also have to be dealt with very seriously by the Attorney-General. But even worse, this should be faced by all those who have put him in this place, because he obviously thinks he is at some other time, ladies and gentlemen, if he says: you have nothing to say about this. Excuse me? Where do you live, ladies and gentlemen? And how, then, can it happen that you reject the whole decision that the ministry, which has all the legal basis, should exercise proper control? Interestingly, today in one newspaper there is an attack on a justice minister who apparently wants to be disciplined. He probably already wanted to make some changes in justice that would make this country more European and more efficient. And I just hope he doesn't fall for it. That is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the essence of the problem. No one in Slovenia invented this problem. This problem has been brought to our attention by the European Union, through its highest institutions, twice as sharp as any other country in the history of the European Union in just a year. And you agreed to this in the first time we discussed it, to some extent. You said: yes, because the situation in justice is not exactly what you want. But then nothing happened. And it's not just about the law. I would even agree with what some of you have said: it is legislation. Well, it could be improved, and our common task is to do it, but it is essential that it depends on those who do it. This is one of the basic lessons of political science that only one third of the laws and two thirds of the effectiveness and democraticity of the system depend on those who implement the laws. And that is the problem that we face today in this national assembly. We have a state prosecutor's office operating non-European, which runs counter to European values, which, for example, when it comes to billions of euros, does not pay due attention to some of the worst forms of crime that cost us terribly much, it is ineffective, obviously. And you're protecting it because it seems to suit you, and the country is going upside down. And when you want to prevent us from talking about how to deal with European values, how to abuse the institutions of this country, as the European Union reminds us, you refer to everything, including the current weather. And then, that the summit was perfect, the gentleman from Positive Slovenia still allowed himself to read us the same, as if we were principles in contrast to his coalition colleague. In short, it's an old song, isn't it? If you're doing something on your own, point your finger at another person quickly so that no one notices what you're really doing. When it comes to money, ladies and gentlemen, there is double damage in this case. If the worst forms of economic crime are not investigated, this is, for the first time, a green light for all who have this purpose. The damage will not be recovered. Justice cannot act. And thirdly, we're going to pay the taxpayers, and we're already paying and we're going to pay. And so don't say that there are more important themes in this country. I do not know which topic is more important than the multibillion-euro amount that we are touching today at this meeting due to the inefficient prosecution of those responsible. For this is what is wrong in this country, that some may be enriched by breaking the law, while the vast majority can only observe powerlessly how state institutions hold hands and do not act. Once upon a time, this problem is in the judiciary, once in the State's Attorney's Office. One and the other are added together — worse, one and the other are multiplied. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed conclusions which you have rejected, which have touched on the effectiveness of the prosecution, which have required the decision to express the expectation that the Government or the competent ministry will carry out control, for which it has all the legal powers. This is no policy intervention, but it is a test of the work and the efficiency and legality of the operation, and you have rejected it. You have even rejected the fact that there is no voting at the end and that you may be missing such a large number at the meeting today. I strongly doubt that you are now hitting spruce through the woods and in other ways helping to remedy the consequences. And the third worst of all, you rejected those fundamental conclusions that touched on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. You have refused to respect European values, you have refused to demand the full and equal functioning of the rule of law, in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution and European values, and you have even rejected that, in accordance with the principles of social ethics, those who have been wrongly murdered, would have at least been given what is a fundamental civilizational achievement – their grave.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc will be procedural before this, I apologize. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's not possible to replicate at this stage. This will be possible later in the debate. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u28	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me tell you where the original sin of calling today's session is. In early June 2013, the following addresses appeared in the media: I will use all legal and political means, we will fight to the end, we will never give up, we will use all political means, you understand? All of it. These are parts of statements made by the President of one of the political parties who disagrees with the unlawful judgment of the Slovenian court. Clearly, he also disagrees with the work of the prosecutor’s organization or with the organization’s leadership. Social Democrats do not deny anyone the use of all legal remedies. Let me repeat, we're not denying anyone the use of legal remedies. Everyone has the opportunity to prove in a court of law the opposite of what the court has decided. After the use of legal remedies in Slovenia, he can also seek justice in the European Court of Human Rights. However, we cannot agree that the champion of one of the political parties with a public call is predicting a fight, not only legal in court, but also fighting with all available political means. Media discredits individuals who cannot be guided or intimidated, especially or prefers those who manage important public functions. Among other things, the European People's Party has been involved in this political fight. At European Union level, this is currently the largest and most influential political party on the centre's right. In the second point of the European People's Party resolution, I state: "The European People's Party expresses its concern about the conviction of Slovenian Democratic Party President Janez Janša in the Court of First Instance. She is aware of Janez Janša's appeal to the Court of Second Instance, which, hopefully, will be dealt with during the prescribed period of three months. It points out that they have ensured fair trial and alleged innocence to fundamental human rights. He expects that the ongoing procedure will not lead to the exclusion of Janez Janša from the political game." If it is unacceptable for someone from abroad to interfere in specific judicial proceedings and thus politically pressure the law enforcement authorities and the judiciary of an independent and independent Member State of the European Union, this is, to say the least, unusual. All the meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly, the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, the Committee on Justice, which in recent months have dealt with similar content or the content has been targeted by linking itself to the functioning of law enforcement bodies, are political use or political abuse of the legislative branch of the authorities for narrow party – even more, personal interests. It is particularly abused by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. The main task of this Commission should be to solve the problems – difficult to say ordinary citizens and citizens, but not otherwise. However, it is not that urgent meetings focus media attention on defending prominent members of the SDS. Our National Assembly is also using this moment to politically defend an individual. Not any individual, but the champion of one of the political parties. Can any of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia afford this? Your Honor, there are a number of lines dedicated to the Attorney General in the request for an extraordinary meeting. If three years ago we wondered why Members and Members of the SDS so strongly opposed the appointment of Prof. Dr. Bellen Fischer as the new Attorney General, perhaps we are all now clear. It's not looking to the left or the right. The prosecution is working, the judiciary is working, maybe too slow, but the court's backlogs are landing. Prosecutors were also commended at the meeting of the Justice Committee. So the D.A.'s working. Clearly, protected persons and persons above the law are no longer on the left or the right. Prof. Dr. Zvonko Fischer is the fourth general prosecutor in Slovenia. The function was performed in 2011. So the attacks on him have been more or less intense since 1998. The first Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia, Anton Drobnič, at the first election of Dr. Fischer as Constitutional Judge in 1998, said that this was one of the best prosecutors in the country, which was extremely honest and responsible, and that the Slovenian state should not reject such experts so easily. That's what Anton Petty Officer said. Apparently Dr. Fisher is a sovereign and hard man enough not to be led or intimidated, that he is immune to suggestions on how to lead a policy of persecution. And as the Attorney-General of the Committee on Justice said, it is his duty, as chairman of the law enforcement body, to fight for his independent position in the system of government and to take care of the legality of society at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not recall that the previous Attorney-Generals-General would be subject to so much discredit and that the leadership of the prosecution would be subject to as much political pressure as it is now. However, it has been stepped up since the June 2013 call. In fact, Zdenka Cerar was also a victim of discredit. Some SDS members have publicly called on the Prime Minister to resolve it. It is particularly worth recalling the demeaning attitude of the SDS towards the State Prosecutor's report to the Commission of Inquiry. They marked him as a free file. Your Honor, do you really think it's just a coincidence? There's no coincidence policy. That was Cerari's and now Fisher's. This is not only an attack on a public function holder, but it also has a negative impact on the work of the law enforcement body as a whole, and this is the purpose. As I mentioned, he was the first Attorney General Anton Drobnic. The D.A.'s been in charge for eight years. At the beginning of the independent Slovenian route, the prosecution acted under legislation from the former country, as we received a new law on the State Prosecutor's Office in 1994. It became effective in early 1995. And why did no one then ask themselves if they could start and end the SDV investigation? In 1999, Zdenka Cerar was elected Attorney General. She was succeeded in 2005 by Barbara Brezigar. We agree with those who say that every attorney general leaves a mark. Of course, there is also a special seal from a time when a dispatch or other case for the prosecution is at stake, and for the top of the prosecution, there is no relevant document when it has been contacted by specific files, when they have been degraded and incompatible prosecutors and what else could have been found. The main observation to the Attorney General today concerns time before Slovenia alone. Why am I bringing this up? All four Attorney Generals were born between 1928 and 1953. Three came from the D.A.'s organization, were career prosecutors, and all served as prosecutors in the former country. And since I have already touched independent Slovenia, I must recall the following acts: Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 8 which reads, I quote: "The judges of the Constitutional Court, the courts and the public prosecutors shall act until the expiry of the term of office for which they have been elected or appointed. Judges of the ordinary courts and courts of the Joint Labour and of the Public Prosecutors may, in the case of a new procedure of the courts and the State Prosecutors, complete their term of office following the first paragraph of this Article in the new judicial bodies. The term of office shall be extended to the Judges of the ordinary courts and the Courts of Joint Labour and to the Public Prosecutors, whose terms of office shall expire before the new rules on the regulation of the courts and the State Prosecutors are put into effect and shall expire within six months of the entry into force of the new rules." The third paragraph of Article 8 of the 1994 Judicial Service Act reads as follows: "Despite the provision of the first paragraph of this Article, judges who have tried or ruled in in investigative and judicial proceedings in which fundamental human rights and freedoms have been violated by judgment shall not fulfil the conditions for election to judicial office after the expiry of their term of office." This is also followed by the preliminary provisions of Articles 107 and 134 of that Act. So, the marriage ground was laid. Individuals have decided how and where they will act or decide for themselves whether they want to continue the function they had, or whether they have sought new challenges elsewhere. We are therefore convinced that these decisions have affected the decision of many. The judicial and prosecutorial types were filled in the independent state, the courts faster than the prosecutors. Today's relationship between judges and prosecutors is according to the reports of the 31st. 12. 2012 next. 982, 10% less than 2007. As a result of the shutdown of the Lukend project, 260 civil servants were less than in 2011. That means about 3,000 300. 208 judicial trainees are also included in this issue. There are 190 occupied prosecution posts, although there are 262 seats opened under the 2011 and 2012 regulations. So, almost over 70 prosecutors are less. The government has already allocated additional resources to the prosecution to fill state prosecutorial functions. We are confident that, for increasingly difficult cases involving increasingly serious forms of financial, economic and banking crime, there will be enough qualified people on the prosecutions. In the specific cases listed in the request, I will not go down. Some of these issues have already been discussed by the prosecutors on the Committee on Justice, and more will be said in the discussion below. We will also not define ourselves in the position of the Group of Social Democrats in the individual decisions mentioned above, because they were rejected by the Committee on Justice. We are convinced that today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will not end the political struggle. Let me finish. Persecution authorities should work in accordance with legislation, without political guidance or pressure. The evidence should be obtained in a legitimate way, the convictions should be well-founded, the courts should be tried, and citizens and citizens should respect the law, be ethical and moral. And we will set an example for the public function holders. I hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation of the parliamentary position of the Group of the National Gazette. Mr. Richard Branisel will introduce him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, Madam Secretary of State! I'd start by putting the state's attorney's office in our legal order. It is exclusively for the executive branch of the Authority and is also separate in this part from the judicial branch of the Authority. The judicial branch judges on behalf of the people, the prosecution prosecutes on behalf of the State, which means that it is an executive act. The prosecution must consider that it is very close to the police, and in this part we would also like certain changes to be made to bring the system of the prosecution and the police together, even organisationally closer. We have also had certain proposals in this respect, and I think that the ministry will do something about this work. If we look at the different arrangements. In Austria, for example, the Chief of Public Prosecutions is the Justice Minister himself. That's where it works. I want to say that as far as the prosecution is concerned, it is entangled in the executive branch of power, and it will also be appropriate to consider that it will be uniform in terms of police regulation, the NPU, as well as the Prosecutor's Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. However, these authorities cooperate and I think it would be necessary for the regulation to be the same. We can also see that the prosecution has been doing better in recent years. We also found out on the committee, that's what the minister found. I think we've also found Members, and there's quite a few data here that shows that what somehow holds. Indeed, 20% are more convictions than in 2012 compared to 2013, which means that in 2013 as many as 1,000 offenders were convicted more than in the previous year. And 10% were more convictions for economic crime than in 2012. The 200 million illicitly secured assets give rise to the hope that this trend will increase and that taxpayers in this area will gain a significant part of the stolen state property back into the budget. And the prosecution's promise to process all bank crimes by December 2015. This is said to be the case that the applicant's statement here does not hold that the prosecutor's office is functioning in this area weakened, humanely fed, and the prosecution's own assurance is that all bank crimes will be prosecuted by the end of 2015. These indicators do not mean that we can be fully satisfied with the prosecution’s work. They show that the movements, that it works better, but we all want, expect and demand that the prosecution work even better together. We cannot forget the great ambition and expectation of both policies and our peoples and taxpayers that a significant leap will be made in the implementation of the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Origin. Public prosecutors will have to make a major leap and lead work. Here, too, we can look forward to a large contribution to the budget and a large burden on taxpayers as regards public service financing. And of course, what is crucial about this, and in doing so the policy is uniform, the Minister has ensured this and is the priority of the Government, and it is also the fact that prosecutors are financially strengthened to be able to carry out these key tasks on behalf of the State. In its proposal to convene this meeting, the proposer also provided an analysis of the burden, efficiency and effectiveness of the prosecution compared to some other neighbouring countries. It appears that after this comparison, our prosecution is in a rather luxurious, privileged position, where it does not work so much, where there are too many prosecutors and so on. I don't think this analysis is correct. Given that we would expect the applicant to also provide information on what powers prosecutors have in other countries we compare ourselves with, how burdened these prosecutors are with us, and of course what justice system is in certain other countries with which the applicant compares us. I do not think that such a lack of analysis can be the reason why, then, in the National Assembly and on the Committee, any conclusions should be properly adopted and summarised. The greatest indication of the applicants is why the proposed conclusions were not adopted on the Justice Committee itself. Decisions could not be taken, namely that the problem of the applicant has not proved to be the prosecution, nor is the issue of the Attorney General's Office, nor is it a problem of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, but is the problem of ad persons to the Attorney General's Office. We cannot mix these things up, especially from this title, as I have already found that, on the one hand, the proponents themselves find that certain things in the prosecution work well, so that in this part these conclusions could not be supported, including the fact that the ambition of these conclusions was also an awareness of the situation in the field of the Attorney General's Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. However, if we wish to adopt such a decision, we should, of course, be informed on the basis of the material to be submitted, but also on the basis of the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office each year, on a regular basis, where the State Prosecutor's Office also reports to the National Assembly each year, and these reports are correct, they are comprehensive. On the basis of these reports, the credible State Assembly and the Committee on Justice can also be made aware of the state and work of the prosecution. The meetings of the Justice Committee were attended by 7 eminent persons, or we can even say the top of the prosecutor's office, who responded to each of the dilemmas raised, the obvious question raised by the proposaler in the material. And I think that we have received satisfactory answers there to all the questions that point to the fact that the conclusions, as proposed, cannot already be supported for substantive reasons and do not need to function alone, are not crucial and do not have any added value for the work of the Prosecutor's Office and for the processing of all the cases mentioned there – in fact they have no weight. The legislative and legal service has also been very reserved for the proposed decisions and has also advised the adoption of such decisions. Besides, what would we do with these conclusions if these conclusions were adopted? I think it's nothing. Both formal and substantive would be meaningless. In particular, there cannot be a reason for these decisions to be adopted in particular where the applicant has not even provided information material and is generally for sensitive court files that are not available to us Members. Such comments and conclusions without documentation are not correct and may also be extremely harmful. In our Group of Members, we do not hope to comment on specific matters without being properly and fully aware of the matter. In particular, it is not appropriate to comment on and draw conclusions in the cases at stake. These are things – it is better not to mention them, because I would mention them carelessly and I would do wrong to those people who are exposed. All I'm saying is that the sensitive issues that the applicant is referring to are sensitive issues in the area of sexual assault on minors, where it is clear that the prosecution has done wrong. Even the prosecution’s indecisive complaint against certain judgments of the courts and so on is evident. It should be noted that this is a very sensitive matter where evidence recruitment and evidentiary effort are extremely important, demanding, and these procedures are, as a rule, long-term, because this is an extremely sensitive matter. And I think you're just so flattish, in general, no one would have hoped to draw any conclusions. The European People's Party resolution on the state of Slovenia is also an important argument, for which it also proposes to be captured, taken into account and, on the basis of this, adopted by the National Assembly. Our view is that the European People's Party's resolution for Slovenia is not binding, is not correct and cannot be the subject of something for a sovereign country, on the basis of which we would also draw some conclusions in this sovereign country, as some of the parties' associations at the level of the European Parliament have found. We don't know how, why, in what way, and then it's supposed to be some truth that we're going to uncritically adopt and apply to the basic acts of this country. A particular case of a problem in this country, and the problem is that they are also used by the proponent in their writings, and they are anonymous. We would like to see that there is no reason in this country for an anonymous person to act and there is no reason to invoke it, and there is no reason to adopt matters in a reasoned manner and to come to conclusions on the basis of these anonymities. We take decisions on the basis of the findings of the institutions, on the basis of the findings of the legal decisions and on the basis of the findings of the competent authorities, which are relevant in this country and should be relevant in each legal country. And then we make certain conclusions and we also take conclusions where necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr Vinko Gorenak was the first to take the floor. I would like to present what the next panellists will be, as there have been some changes to the programme of presentations or debates between Members and Members. Mr Franz Bogovic, then Mr Ivan Hršak, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Aljoša Jerič and then Mrs Eva Irgl, have the floor for the proposal. The first one has the floor to propose to Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I was very interested in listening to the current presentation, but do you know what the problem is? The problem is, the loudest are the ones we find among the members of the Udba. It must be made very clear that there are five members of the former Judgment in this Parliament. They're not on this side. If I exclude a human client, you'll find everything on that side. By the way, we're clear. Otherwise, I'm going to introduce what I had in mind in the introduction, and somehow I didn't make it. I'm done with the elections and the formation of the government. Let me get on with the next thing. You know we met last year with those massive protests. The reaction of the prosecution's organisation in Ljubljana was, at least at the beginning, absolutely inappropriate, in my opinion. Why? For the basic reason that we had 89 injured police officers, and the prosecutors were released in all order of the first round in Ljubljana. The media later reported that Mr Fisher had a meeting with the heads of the prosecutions and that he had been ordered to do so: while you are in power, take the most appropriate measures. This has been reported by the media, and I must make this very clear. But not just the media. I myself have received very similar information from the participants in the meeting who, of course, do not hope to say this. Anonymous. You've also talked a little bit about anonymouss. I am in favour of the anonymity being disregarded, and everyone at the Ministry of the Interior and the police, you can ask them, exactly know that all the anonymous people who came to my address as Minister of Home Affairs were rummaging – do you know where? The one they were referring to, of course, if it wasn't a crime. I was doing this for about two months, and then the anonymouss went out. I therefore agree that anonymity is not the best basis for serious decision-making. But if an anonymous person, like the police, turns out to have salt, as it's called, if it turns out to be a crime, it's a crime, but it's a crime to react to. And look, we got the first anonymity of 24. 11. What did that anonymous girl say? I haven't taken it seriously, not for a very long time. It was written that at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office there is an entire staff of people, for whom it is clear who is leading it – the one who is sitting there illegally, that is Mr Škrlec, at least so determined by the Supreme Court, which is the first-class politician, the State Secretary of LDS, employed, as we said, in an illegal manner the last day before the arrival of the new government, whose primary task is to get Janša into any possible procedure. And the other thing is, the anonymous guy called in a financial investigation against Jansho. The Attorney General reacted immediately and said: no, this document is not authentic, but we are indeed conducting the investigation. Okay. The file's not authentic. They're leading the investigation. Then where did the house investigation come from with Mr. Kaloh, where they were looking for a document that wasn't of a confidential nature that wasn't genuine? The house investigation order says - what? That the document doesn't have a head and that it doesn't have a stamp. And keep an eye on it. It's different in essential parts from the original. Still, it's a house investigation. Okay, I'm not denying that you're going to tell her that I'm interfering with the power of the prosecution, but I'm asking where other similar house investigations are. The case in Patrio's case. The youth even released the indictment one month before the defendants got it in their hands. Did we have any housework? No, it was a patriotic act of the magazine Youth or something. Let's move on. Fishergate 2, an anonymous woman you don't recognize. But the problem is, if the first line is held, then there's a high probability that they're holding it from the second, a high probability. This one says that Mr Fisher and Mr Skrlec are going to the "manneken" action. Under the model is meant the current President of the Republic of Slovenia. It is logical that the current President of Slovenia is some sort of unwanted thorn in the fifth Slovenian political left, which she did not support in the elections. Only after he said he'd run for office did his own client support him, probably for moral reasons, or he wouldn't, but that's not my problem. That's not my problem, that's your problem. But Mr Fischer and Mr Škrlec's problem after this anonymity is the President of the Republic, and there is nothing to worry about in this country, rather than the Slovenian coalition, the government or anyone launching a major problem, rather than the Ministry doing some real control in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office – I have not heard that they would do so. But we don't care because you probably don't have any political interest in the President of the Republic. Financial investigations – I've already said how many we have in this country. For 5 billion. One speaker here made it very clear that about 200 million are now in the downfall of prosecutors and criminals. Up to 5 billion are still very few. And when I asked the Attorney General on the board how many financial investigations they are leading for these five billion, how many financial investigations they are leading, in the middle of my performance, he began to cry out very rudely, "No, I won't tell you that, I won't tell you that!" So much so, Mr Braniselle, that he answered all the questions. He yelled at me, "I won't answer you!" That we're clear. At the same time, let's just leave $5 billion on one side and do something about it for the audience. But it's a financial investigation with Janez Janša, and that's very important. Don't say I'm defending him now. I also made it clear earlier how the KPK report is, and I also mentioned Mr Jankovic, who had no right to complain, and not our President. And Mr Fisher is still sitting there under the suspicion of corruption pronounced by the KPK and the Supreme Court has held back. If I am talking about the house investigation with Mr Kaloh, of course I am also asking about the search for whistleblower, or, as we call it, the one from the police who informed journalist Damjano Žišt about the house investigation at Roman Jakič. We're looking for him here. We're looking hard. The D.A. did everything it could to find him. How'd it go with Lucky Friend? It was nothing. Nobody was looking for a whistleblower. How'd it go with Magina? No one was looking for whistleblowers who sent reporters to the front door before criminals got there. Even in the case of Youth, as I mentioned earlier, no one did anything. In order for someone to start dealing with Falcone's question, why did he stay in Moscow to, say, avoid a bit of an unpleasant moment because he would be detained. But the undersecretary is a little ugly or how? We don't do this anyway. Let's keep looking. At this point, we have a top-notch problem in this country. As you know, Mr Hanzi in Germany is in custody, police detention or what they call it. This is Mr Hanzi, who is supposed to kill in Celovac in 1975, this is the one on which the document is signed by Mr Zemlaric with the adjective "I agree". Now look. So the Germans reacted immediately. You say: leave to the state of law, to the courts – yes, but how, if they do not work? How's that? Why is Mr. Hanzi there? Because he is suspected on the basis of data from Slovenia. And this is Mr Hanzi, who is the national television that we know exactly that we are all paying for – by the way, this is the organization that is the only one in this country that you have given her in the previous budget or now the same amount of money or more to the current budget. And the same television, national television, sends a journalist to Germany, and Mr. Hansi immediately brings out an excuse that he was in the hospital on the day of the murder and the attacks of researcher Leljak. If anyone thinks it's normal — no, it's not normal. I think that in the history of Slovenian journalism under the name of Mrs Ksenija Horvat Petrovčič, responsible editor, a copy of which future journalists will also have to learn in 300 years, which must not be done. But look, of course this Mr. Hanzi could tell on TV how poor he is, how he is, how innocent he is, how some criminals accuse him here in Slovenia and so on. This could have been said on Slovenian national television. Do you think someone in Germany showed it? No, no, no. This is Mr Hanzi, who is supposed to get a million German stamps, thus showing data in the archive, from 1955 to 1990, because he was a member of the State Security Service. A million marks back then! Imagine how many a million marks have been paid by Slovenian citizens anyway for this gentleman allegedly killing. And who's protecting you to this day? What gives you the right to protect murders today? Not now to speak at the principle level: we agree, we condemn and so on. It's blah, blah, fla, fla, fla. There is one thing to know: Who led the former federal state? The party ran it. The Constitution said that it was the only political party or that it was the only one that could work. Rotter doesn't say he's a party. He says he's a client. This is quite interesting, as if we had a customer system until 1990. It's really crazy, isn't it? But how could she run this country? With the help of the State Security Service. But the State Security Service also killed and had thousands and thousands of informants. These informers also entered this hall in 1990. And these informants have been in this hall for 23 years, sitting on the Slovenian political left. By the end of today's debate, if I get the relevant information, I will be able to provide all the data after 1990. And these same people within the Slovenian political left today are defending what the State Security Service was doing, that is, killings. However, it is necessary to say clearly, not now, not to say: not to do that, that, that. There's information in public, and the police and the D.A. The police are working. I know they're working, because they've also made information public that they're present in the archive and so on. The D.A.'s supposed to be trying, that's what it sounds like. She worked really hard. But look, there's Hansi in Germany in custody. There's nothing wrong with us. When did our organs squirm, as it were in Styria? By the time they saw the water running down their throats, Austria would react because Germany would react. Why didn't they react last year when the book came out 88 stairs to hell? It's also about crimes, suspicions of crimes, but there was nothing. Let's move on. Let me touch the individuals who are performing for a moment. I respect what the President of the National Assembly has said, that we should not mix human tragedies with all the burdens that lie on all the affected people today and those who help them, but that is what Mrs Porotat has started. It wasn't any different. Some of you mentioned John Janša's statement on June 5th last year to use all legal and political means. All legal and political resources are permitted in this country! What's wrong here? Do you have any objection to the use of legal remedies? Do you have any objection to the use of political means? It's the end of politics. What do you mind? I'm asking you if you, the one before 1990, could use any other funds. Or what would we use then? I don't understand what you're dealing with. 129 thousand people are unemployed, Mrs. Porotat – yes, but this is not what the opposition does, so do you! That's why you're in the government. You don't know when you're in government, when you're not. When you were in the government of Janez Janša, you voted against my interpretation, that is, for my resolution. Today you're honking that we should take care of 129 thousand unemployed. You're in the government! Let's clear up in your head. Old wounds and so on – yes, of course old wounds, Mrs. Porotat [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u33	Dr. Gorenak, please keep the level of debate at the level of the Rules of Procedure. No offense.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u34	Yes, that's exactly what I'm doing, and please, if you don't interrupt me. You mentioned the old wounds. Yeah, those old wounds are open. These people or many of them have no grave and do not know where this grave is. But you voted on the committee against the decision we wanted to help your family find the grave. You were against it. You mentioned the damage – yes, do something! You're in the government. We gave – here I have the conclusion of the government of Janez Janša, which we adopted two days after the floods, on 19. 9. and we then, that was the first thing, we spent half a million euros just for that area that was flooded over the Loka. You have spent 317 thousand euros on the whole of Slovenia, and you gave 350 to Mr Stepišnik for a private company. Yes, Mrs. Popot, you do well, but this is your government, not mine. Mrs. Kociper – she's not here. It's based on the articles, she said. When we had a previous government meeting, you said: we cannot discuss three sheets of paper and newspaper annexes. I specifically ordered professional colleagues: not a single article in the annex. That's why you have 24 pages of text in front of you. You're not happy again. Mr. Former Mayor of Nova Gorica – as it were, Brulc – gave me an excellent idea on the board. In order to hold one meeting, and I will propose it in my parliamentary group, on the members of the State Security Service in the National Assembly. I'm going to propose this, and I'm going to summarize Mr Brulco's idea, and I'm going to ask you how I can write a request. A magazine, whether or not we give a gold watch with a plumber on request. Maybe then we'd be happy. You said we were dealing with Mr. Dog. That's not true. We invited him and Mr Leljak asked: help me find the grave. So no one's attacking him. Amateur historians – okay, the Czech Republic has 350 paid by the state. Send 25, 30, 50 men to the archives and pay for them. If you think you can do that. We condemn crimes, Mrs Kociper – do something else. But you vote against the grave, let alone condemn crimes. That's not true. No conclusions – yes, of course. I'll say it again, 'cause that's not the way it works. We are without conclusions — why? Because you didn't want to vote. One of the conclusions was: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do everything necessary to ensure that the relatives and descendants of the displaced persons find the remains and bury them. Don't talk to me about the rules, don't talk to me about anything, don't talk to me about any standards. It's a civil code that people respect. Dogs don't bury dogs. Cat cats don't. Cow cows don't. But we bury our people, our dead. However, you were unable to vote on the decision that the State of the Republic of Slovenia would help to find the remains. Very sad. That's why there's no conclusions, not to say we didn't make conclusions. Of course we did. The opposition, leave the dead alone – yes, of course, but some lie in the graves. Where's the Montenegrin? Maybe it's in the corner of Kočev. I don't know where it is. Maybe they threw him in there without burying him. I don't know what they did to him. Mr. Brultz, this one's interesting. The European People's Party is in great pain and is interfering and so on. Yeah, on the other hand, we have Hansi, who you're protecting today with the help of television, and I don't know who. Yeah, sure, right. And if the European People's Party is hurting you, it's'made a spaghetti'. Now, if you're not pretty, you can't "that spaghetti show something nice." Well, then, let's focus. She also spoke of the judgment of the Finnish court, for we are obviously talking about everything today. The essence of the Finnish court's judgment, if you read it and read it, not according to the Slovenian press agency that lied, and then the apology, you know, is actually what? John Janša had nothing to do with this. Second, Cekuta was exaggerating about his influence at Drnovsk. The best bidder was Patricia. That's what it says in that judgment, Mrs. Kociper. He's been attacking Fischer since 1998 and so on. And Mr. Brulc spoke about the attacks on Mr. Fischer and the attacks on Mrs. Zdenko Cerar. But I have to remind you. How was it when Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem sat there, of course on her left – then reached the question of the mission – what? That Minister Zalar intervened in an open case. He sent a van of researchers and they ran over the entire D.A. And what would happen? Attorney General Brezigareva would be dismissed. It's as clear as day. But who intervened? The one you don't like. This is Borut Pahor, who was then Prime Minister and said no. When he said no, however, the Slovenian political left silenced. So much for Mr. Brulco's reality. Mr Branisel, 200 million and so on – it is only 200 million, out of 5 billion. That's a little bit. I hope we agree. CEPEJ comparisons – comparisons are European. I didn't do them, because I don't have time. And you do a better analysis. You say the problem is just Fisher – no, it's not true that Fisher is the only problem. I may have put a little wrong on the committee's emphasis. I can agree with that. But the problem is from the top down, that's clear. With both capable and good prosecutors, that is clear. On the committee answered the question – no, I asked him. I said, "How many financial investigations are there?" And he started yelling. "He won't tell you," he said. So he didn't answer all the questions. But I already told you about the materials, I don't waste too much time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We're starting a debate. Before we begin the discussion, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u36	Thank you so much for the replica. Dear Mr Gorenak, you cannot forget that I voted for your interpretation at the time. I also explained to you why. That's because you were objectively responsible for those signatures being lost. That was my opinion. I think I said that well, that I have the right to have an opinion, and I would like us to stop doing that. If I were in your skin, I'd step down as soon as it happened. In every country where they place something on the reputation of their ministers and other officials. Look, on this vote, and on the conclusions you have proposed, the following. The coalition considered that these conclusions were not necessary, and we did not say that we were not meant to bury all those who had been killed in one way or another. Of course, we express the pieta to these people, and in my own explanation, I have called on the competent authorities to finally do so in order to get this out of the agenda. I also explained my vote in favour of the 5th decision, where it is said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor's Office and the police are expected to do whatever is necessary to investigate these crimes. I am also in favour of investigating and punishing the perpetrators, but we have assessed that these conclusions are not necessary. These authorities are already obliged by their official duty to do so, so I do not think it is worthy of you to discuss here how we have done wrong. We're in the coalition for that. I think that I can speak for the entire DeSUS and also for the other members of the coalition to support these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, I found that you could have made a procedural proposal and I also understood your procedural proposal when you gave a warning in the last sentence about what was going on. Actually, the replica wasn't possible, and I apologize for my misinterpretation. The timing was slightly over 2 minutes and the replica or procedural was both 3 minutes. We are moving on to the debate. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have a debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u38	Yeah, just one sentence. The Slovenian political left is interesting. I'd say I'm sorry. What the hell is this? Look, Mrs. Porotat, I don't have a problem with you not backing me up on the interpretation. This is your right. You just don't know if you're in the opposition or if you're in the coalition. That's the problem. But you're always left-handed, that's the problem. And the other thing. [[advertising from the hall]] It's a debate. As a proponent. If this government had the same standards and you had the same criteria for this government, then you wouldn't have any more ministers. And the other thing is when you talk about actions and talk about how you're for a funeral and pie and so on. There's one difference between me and you. You're in favour, but you're against it. And I'm with one and the other. That's the difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u39	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u40	We all have nerves, we can do things like that or something, but this is the moment where things go across the border. I believe in the pain of the SDS, I also believe that Mr Gorenak slept very badly today, that he had to prepare for this meeting, that he had a lot of history to worry about, that he was on the page that he was on today. He was in the Communist Party. Mr Gorenak was probably misled at the time, but Madam Vice-President, I ask that you remind Mr Gorenak every time he insults Members and Members on the other hand. He's feeling sorry for From the fact that we are on the left hand side, we are self-inflicted. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Five! Tell us who they were, because we were not all, because some of us were born substantially later when this story was over. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Allow me, Mrs. Irgle. And secondly, every time our Members have a replica on their left and act with dignity, Mr Vinko Gorenak, although he has a doctorate, that he was a minister, cannot express himself. And I ask you to warn him about the dignity of this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Han, for your procedural proposal. I also see that the level of debate is indeed beyond those given to the National Assembly in accordance with ethical principles. I therefore once again warn all Members of Parliament that we are sticking to the level of debate. So let us be right in the debates in the sense of any insults, especially personal insults. You have a procedural proposal, mag. He's a duke? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives, guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! My procedural proposal is that the honourable Mr Gorenak does not mention the outcome of the vote in the National Assembly, why someone voted one way or another. He may not like it, he may have his reasons to be against it, but allow each Member to have the right to vote for his reasons as he voted. I say that my vote has been reasoned that the Commission does not have the right to decide that it is not credible. This was the vote, not the composition of the proposals and the content of the proposals that Mr Gorenak, Mr Gorenak, wants to present in front of television and people. My procedural proposal: I propose not to mention the vote, as voted by a fellow Member or someone else, but also to me when I discuss it. We have a right and an explanation. You may not like it, you may like it, but you do not have the right to discuss how someone voted and directly influence the way they vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the debate. As your candidate, Dr. Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u44	Madam President, I agree with what Mr Han says, but there is no need to pretend. I said five people, not all of them. That's one thing. That's another thing. You went straight past what Mrs. Hercegovac said. What right do you say that I can't talk about conclusions? Where does it say that? Of course, because you think as they thought before 1990, when the president could say what he said and the others raised their hands. I will say what is necessary to justify the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u45	No offense, please, as to how anyone thinks. I don't allow insults. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u46	Good afternoon, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! What is happening now proves that we have some legitimate concerns that this extraordinary meeting today is unlikely to reach its purpose. We are all aware that very many things are wrong in Slovenia, that many things, which have also been done in the political world, have been wrongly accepted among the parties. We are aware that there are many things wrong in the Slovenian economy, in banks, and we are also convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that, like many systems, the justice system should work better and we should live better in Slovenia, in a more orderly country, in a country where more people would trust the authorities of the country. After today's session, I'm afraid this trust will not rise, but it will decrease. One of the key reasons why we have so many problems, including in Slovenian justice, is that politics is certainly interfering with the functioning of the justice system. The first problem that proves this is that, in 1991, we came from a country where certainly very well-checked personnel were able to hold judicial posts, judges' seats, prosecutors' cities. As we all know, in Slovenia, no one has reviewed whether these people have actually dealt with the odd things in the past, which they should probably have done, and this is proving more and more. And certainly there is quite a part of these people still involved in our judicial, judicial and judicial system today. Another truth is that the current policy from day to day, as today, is interfering and wants to have a major influence in the justice system. Today, four state attorneys in Slovenia alone were listed. Surely each one, all four, or two on one side and on the other, may also be assigned a political affiliation. There's got to be a problem with that, too. We forcefully try to balance the justice system once, try to force ourselves into ownership structures, and on the one hand the justice system and justice and on the other hand the economy are falling apart. If we don't want to admit it here, and we don't want to say it out loud, we're just going to create data in our own manner, and we're going to talk about what's right and we're going to keep trying, in our own words, to paint Slovenians and Slovenians. I'm afraid we won't be able to go on with this much longer. And certainly this policy, which is indisputable on the one hand and on the other – we know about various disputes if you want, Zalar-Brezigar or any other, and affect consistency, the effectiveness of the functioning of the judiciary. For if you can't trust one another even enough to be able to sit first among them at the common table, where you could only expect them to run actions together, to prosecute organized crime, and if you want, postwar killings or the problems of the Udba. You either want to admit it or you don't want to admit it, I think you know exactly what kind of pressure and experiment comes from. That's why I think we have big problems. We haven't cleared up much in our time. A number of processes are also starting against political function holders. Here we should first request, expect the judiciary to process and complete the cases. Some trials are concluded, some cases of infamous arrests or I don't know what remains in the lawsuits of prosecutors, judges. Indeed, the observer of this place cannot feel that everyone in this country has the same meter. One is processed, one is moving on, and that's in politics, and that's among bankers, and that's among entrepreneurs. Public secrets are how many millions have been taken out of this country and nothing has happened to them. Public secrets are how we can go back to the bad bank and take the wrong steps. I am firmly convinced that there must be an open debate and that these matters must be clarified. There's no harm in not getting at least one of those people and condemning this nonsense that taxpayers will have to pay 5 billion for these holes in the banking system. However, if we really want these authorities to do well, let us once give them conditions for work, let them work professionally, and at the same time they must be professional. But, as I have already said, through this historical flow, we also have in these species the kind of fragmentation that we have in these benches in the National Assembly, and that is our key problem. This country will not be saved until we cross these barriers and start working and acting in a way that brings us closer to each other every day, but not every day more apart. In the proposals for conclusions, I am very sorry, and I do not see the real reason why coalition Members were unable to confirm these conclusions, which I think are general conclusions and do not go in any ideological direction. Decision 1 is to take note, in conclusion 2, of the fact that we speak, recognise and give, for the first time, some direction to the judicial authorities to remedy the shortcomings that are taking place in the banking system, the business system as soon as possible. In the third decision, to ensure conditions. I hope they don't. Above all, I would like to see decisions 4, 5 and 6 adopted. They've been read once before, and let me read them anyway. 4: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia condemns the functioning of the former State Security Service, which, until the end of the 1980s, unlawfully and secretly kidnapped and murdered domestic and foreign citizens. I don't know why this decision can't be adopted." 5: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, the police and the Ombudsman to do their utmost to investigate the crimes of the former SDV in full, and their perpetrators are justly tried." I don't know why we can't accept this. Decision 6: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do whatever is necessary to ensure that the relatives and descendants of the displaced persons find their remains and can finally be buried with dignity." I don't know why we can't take this decision. Why did I read these conclusions? I think that the final conclusion really points to the darkest part of Slovenian history, for which Slovenians and Slovenians obviously have not yet found enough wisdom, openness to talk about it, and that finally this national disgrace, the tragedy that occurred after World War II, would be placed in the right historical framework and at the same time showed who is responsible for the thousands and tens of thousands of Slovenians. I really don't know, and the fact that politicians like the former president of the country allow themselves to say that this is a second-class topic doesn't belong today, and I think they're really out of line. Why did I read Conclusions 4 and 5? Today there has been a lot of talk about the need to get to the bottom of things, and these two conclusions relate to events related to the State Security Service, the 70s, 80s. Also the current theme, the theme that is second in the sequence, if I mentioned the postwar killings first, the topic around which all the secrets should be revealed. Today, it has already been said by the proposer that it has five names which are supposed to be the names of our fellow Members. Mr. Gorenak, I urge you to tell them today. I think we're responsible for the fact that, if we know such things, we say here. I don't know what the problem is. When you mentioned these five names on your left, you deleted the SLS. And today, I want to speak out in this national assembly. Since I announced my candidacy for the President of the Slovenian People's Party, I have received in some newspapers, which I think have well-educated resources right in your kind, very high publicity – these are from the Reporter, Democracy, the Politikis web portal – if I am reading, it is regulated by a paid man – and in what Fire Report and elsewhere. And why am I bringing this up? Last July, I found myself in an article in Reporter 8. 7., Udbovec from Krskov, sir, whom we all know was the leader of the Udba in Yugoslavia, around which there is no doubt more to be discovered. And in this four - page article, it is also that Gorenz is the godfather of Bogovich. I feel strongly that as a congregation councilman, because both of us in Krsek were involved with him so that he could somehow be associated with him, had a coalition with him, and so forth. Let me tell you when I earned this article and why I earned it from my behavior. Because a week earlier, I had answered the media's question that it was high time for Milan Kučan and Janez Janša to stop fighting, polynomizing, discovering and burying themselves in history at every public holiday. In all this, I made it clear that history's secrets and all this shit have to be revealed and put forward. In the following week, my correction was published, but I obtained an even better article, the Posavik Udbovsko-human link. It's a nice picture of Mr. Gorenc having another fruit tree next to him. It is by chance that I, who deals with agriculture, born in a farming family, in a Christian family, say it out loud, and in a family in which no one has ever been a member of any party and no organs of persecution, nor with any fate. As a matter of fact, Father’s Ascension was persecuted. Why am I saying this? Because last November, your pianist, Mr Jernej Pavlin – that is why I am telling you this today, otherwise I would not mention to you again in my big interview with democracy in the context of ties with the Posavina fate, the Communists and I do not know what. That's why I'm saying from this place that if I happen to be between those five or six, say it out loud today or deny it. Or leave me alone because these things are still going on today. There's a talk about it today, and like you guys have some unnamed resources, I have some unnamed sources telling me what to do. Among other things, a film that spoke about a truth in the country at the time of the adoption of the resolution in the European Parliament – I found myself again in a film where I was surrounded by Mr Gorence. Unnamed sources tell me today how the problem should be that the Slovenian People's Party connects with me in charge with New Slovenia, because I'm supposed to be the one you're dealing with. The SDS High Representatives are supposed to talk about this. And if we have a session to get to the truth, let's put the truth on the table and let's tell the truth. And if anyone has anything, I'm here today, as I said about everything I've done so far -- let's talk about it out loud today. We now have the case of Mayor Bračič in Vidma, who is supposed to take 57,000 euros of credit from the municipality in his own name, our member. The next day I called him and asked him what was on that thing. He said, "Look, I'll meet you right away. And he brought me these contracts, and he said, "There's a fake living for which someone's written the papers together." He says that the political struggles began again in this work and that we have one of our former colleagues who has already run twice in this congregation. Why am I saying this? I speak because in this country we will never be able to get to justice, to be honest if we are to clear history on the fact that we are condemning ourselves today and are acting on known methods of discrediting, liquidating. I've never done this alone, and I never will. I hope that we will also relieve these burdens of Slovenian politics. But I am speaking because in this context we always speak and speak, and in the background we are working in a similar way today. I came into politics myself with sincere intentions, I work honestly in it, I have no problem with the history that some of my time has. Why am I telling you this today? Because I had already received these readings as local politicians in the past, because it came from these kinds and because it is the same vocabulary as someone else referred to sources from Posavje in this Reporter. For God's sake, let's stop this once in this country and pour ourselves some clean wine. In this way, we will reach the bottom of the truth, not in such a way that we will build on the lies of the structures today, as well as the discreditation and liquidation of political opponents. This is a very bad journey, this is not the teaching of the Christian democracy that we belong to, this is not a science and this is not the starting point of the European People's Party. But I'm going to follow these teachings and these starting points myself. I would support and I would be happy if today all of these conclusions could be supported by colleagues from the SDS if the Slovenian justice system really did work impartially, as we see from many examples that it did not today. And, colleagues, until we tell each other honestly and without masks in the eyes of the truth, we're only going to do bad things in this country, not good. And I hope that one day we'll be aware of what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next one is for the debate, Mr Ivan Hršak, but I see that he is not here now. Mr Aljoša Jerič, followed by Mrs Eva Irgle, Mr Richard Braniselj and then Mr Franz Puksic. Here you go, Mr. Jerich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Your Honor! I'll be very brief. We have already had a debate on this in the Committee on Justice. Today we are gathered here again at an extraordinary meeting convened by the biggest opposition party, for which, of course, it has all the right, but it would be really more fair on their part to call today's meeting a proposal for a decision concerning the use of all political means to discredit the judicial authorities of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the conviction of Janez Janša at the first stage. This also applies, of course, to other references to emergency meetings of committees or extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, which have already been convened by the largest opposition party for the same purpose of discrediting institutions. Even the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia has tried to discredit the show with a contribution on Patria. Mr Gorenak asked himself the following question here today. He asked what was wrong with the use of all political means. You know what's wrong? Everything is wrong, because undermining institutions, which are deliberately working in the biggest opposition party, is exactly the opposite of what all political organisations should do. All of us who are in the highest places in the institutions have so much greater responsibility for the state of the spirit in our society. Our operation must be socially creative and not anarchy. Clearly, it is the anarchy that can relativize all events, including convictions and suspicions of corruption. In these processes alone, I wish to have the competent authorities process as soon as possible, so that any person who is within such a suspicion of corruption and who is in a public political position will be confronted as soon as possible with any doubts about possible corruption. I have not supported the conclusions of the Committee on Justice, as I have already explained on this Committee. Finally, I would add that I really hope for greater criticism from our fellow citizens and fellow citizens as to what the real problems and challenges of our country are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. You want a word as a proponent? My apologies, Mrs Irgle, Dr Vinko Gorenak has asked for the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Just one sentence. Mr Bogovich, I have made very clear in my performance that without a public party, and I have made you very clear on this side, among those who have nothing to do with it. So I hope you'll take that into account. I've said that before. But as for the magazines you mentioned and so on, please, if you don't have me or someone else as an editor. You really have to deal with them, not with me. But I made it clear that you don't judge between them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u51	Replica, Mr. Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u52	Thanks for that, Vinko. I don't have a problem with you explaining to me where I belong. I know where I belong, and I know I have nothing to do with it. When I mentioned these media, I wouldn't have mentioned them today, nor would it have been if your responsible man for public relations had not allowed himself to write this in his interview with democracy. And because I know that things are still happening to me, and we all know that some forums have very good people who write about some truth in Slovenia, if I may say so, about all of us. And some very decent and skilled people continue to launch the idea of the widower Franc Bogovich. Franz Bogovic was never a matchmaker, and that is why I also wanted to say today from this city, but I thought it was a very appropriate point because you set it up to clear with history and with Slovenian destiny. I have nothing to do with her. But whoever has it, let it be revealed as soon as possible, and if anyone knows today that he is responsible and responsible for the things he has done, let them punish them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u53	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been drawing attention to the anomaly within the judicial system for many years. And it is also very consistent to point out the ineffective functioning or functioning of the prosecution. Of course, I have to be precise here, and I can't be guilty. I'm sure it's not the whole prosecution. Many prosecutors do their job very well, very professionally, especially fast and effective. So it's not a problem when we're talking about the issue of the functioning of the prosecution, in the prosecution as a whole, but the key problem is that it's unfortunately being led by the wrong person. Of course, this person is not wrong because of his professional references — he certainly has — but because of the issue of integrity. Dr. Zvonko Fischer as Attorney General of State has violated human rights in the past, and now he is the guardian of legality, and finally we can say that he is also the Ombudsman of Human Rights. And, of course, if we all ask each other now, at least those who are sitting here or those who may be watching on television, whether such a person who in the previous system may have violated human rights today is at the head of an authority that is persecuting or should be persecuting criminal acts of different kinds, even one where human rights are violated. I would only ask my fellow Members if they could discuss it more quietly in the benches because it is difficult to discuss. Apparently, Madam Vice President doesn't hear that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u55	Dear Mrs Irgle, I have noticed and have considered that if I mention Dr Gorenak and Mr Bogovic, you may immediately warn me that I have warned them two as a person. Because you had two in mind, didn't you? So, all Members and Members of Parliament are requested to be heard in the Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Here we now come up with a problem called politically-set people. These are regime people for all time, obviously, and also for all roles, flexible and flexible when necessary. This is precisely in the case of the judicial system, which should be the first to act entirely independently of policy in its decisions. You should follow only the truth and the search for justice. However, if we speak in the case of the prosecution, the prosecution should follow exclusively the fair and non-selective prosecution of persons who may be suspected of crimes either in the area of economic crime or in the area of banking crime or in the area of crimes related to the inviolability of human life. Here, of course, I am talking about issues related to the functioning of the State Security Service, which was not a humanitarian organisation, but a criminal organisation, as the Supreme Court has already said in its 2002 decision. And here I have to express my regret that coalition parliamentary groups do not go through this step to condemn such action. This is not an ideological issue, but it is a question of the inviolability of human life, which is said to be questions related to the general civilisation standards or values known from the Antigone. Every civilized nation respects them. First, gold and most important rule. Therefore, it is a major problem if, in the public eye, such functions as the office of the Attorney-General or the office of the President of the Supreme Court, people who in the public are faced with, or have, a number of concerns and doubts about, the ability to work professionally, fairly, fairly and all in particular in the same way as the Constitution commands them, but not like that, for example, that we attach a political background to their harmful behaviour in order to preserve their own privileges from the previous system of plagues of Slovenian political space and also prevent the normal development of this country. We have a confession to make. Despite the democratic transformation that has taken place – we have come from a one-party system of multilateralism. This has happened, but apparently in some people it is only apparent. The modus operandi, mode vivendi, if you want, has remained exactly the same. The mentality of all people in these leadership positions, in particular in the judiciary in management positions, remains exactly the same, unchanged. And what is that key impulse that drives these people to remain in such functions and that no one, even coalition Members, says, "Look, this is a serious problem?" Such people remain in these functions for the sake of power at all costs, when we talk about politicians, and at the leading functions, if we speak, say, of functions in the judiciary and also in the economy and elsewhere, even at all costs, to remain in these functions. This is a key priority for these people. This is more important than the truth, more important than just justice and, last but not least, more important than the welfare of people. See, already colleague Gorenak said that we are facing an inefficient prosecution which does not produce some of its things quickly enough, especially when we are talking about processing cases when it comes to, say, politics, this prosecution is acting extremely biasedly and therefore also unprofessionally. And that's why people can't trust neither in the prosecution nor in justice as a whole. Let's just look at two cases. No proceedings are pending against Jankovic, nothing is being processed. It's been years and years. Nothing. King of Bethany. Anyone who has five minutes of time can sign a procedure against Janša. Everyone. Whatever the evidence is. Most of these aren't even there, none at all. Consider the following example. When it comes to the journalist Valenčič, who published classified information on television in his documentary on extremism, the prosecution does nothing. It does nothing, even though it should respond to such things as the issue of classified information after its basic duty. For example, when a journalist, Politikis, publishes a document that is not classified in the first place – the former was secret, and it is not secret and has the right to publish it, but of course it does not have to be, or it is logical that no reporter should mention the source – they immediately open an investigation at the prosecution’s office. Now I ask you, especially my colleagues in the coalition, whether these are double criteria or how we would define this. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also repeatedly point out the problem of not taking responsibility for errors in the judiciary and in the prosecution, either that they are procedural errors or that they are substantive errors. With us, the prosecutors and the judges are hardly responsible for any mistakes, I'm afraid. I will repeat once again what Attorney General Zvonko Fischer said a while ago in Odessa. He said that the prosecution and he, as chairman, should not bear the burden of responsibility. Here, of course, I wonder what the prosecution is, who are these people, that they cannot bear the burden of responsibility. Are they exempt from any responsibility? All three branches of government have control over themselves and must also accept responsibility, both legislative and executive, and should thus also be with the judiciary. However, in these waters they also reject the concept of objective responsibility. There have been many such cases. I have said before that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is acting in my opinion very selectively, and several times politically. Some things are very quick to process, others are not even started, even though they are crimes related to the inviolability of human life. The right to inviolability of human life is guaranteed by the Constitution in Article 17. Why am I saying this? Because the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the other investigative authorities have done little but almost nothing in the case of the latest discoveries of Mr Roman Lejak and Mr Igor Omerza for the murders, for crimes that are not obsolete. In the 1970s and 1980s, in the late 1980s, the State Security Service still killed people. Some still don't know where their remains are. And the coalition denies to the families that this country would do anything to find these remains, and to finally bury these people with dignity, fivefold. It is for the end, given that my fellow Members will continue to speak. Mr Brulc, you mentioned previously the Commission for petitions and for the human rights and equal opportunities that I am leading. I believe that this commission is a great thorn in your heel, not just you, but I can see it from the responses that have been happening recently to my account, in connection with my name, when there are, of course, ordered, planned discredits that you are agilely spreading. You know these things. I speak generally, Mr. Brulc. And of course then it is also published in you by favored media – discredits that have no basis and are a complete lie. But that's how you're used to working. Let me just explain to you that as long as I am President of this Commission, i.e. the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I will be discussing human rights, human rights violations, especially if they are linked to the inviolability of human life. No one's gonna stop me from doing that, no matter what the discredits and no matter what the letters, the e-mails, and I don't know what I'm getting. For my peace, believe me, it would be better to keep it quiet, and I know that's not right. And it is right that once people learn what has been done in this country and that those sacred cows, if I say so, who have long been working from the front and the background, are shaping the Slovenian destiny to know what they have done in the past. Until these things are cleared up, the Slovenian people have no future. We can move around, we can blind ourselves, we can say that it doesn't matter, we can say that we should deal with more important things, but in the end, we only know that until we all admit together that people who have been violently taken from their lives, that we don't have to bury them five times, we have an extremely big problem in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the replica or you probably have a procedural proposal because you have not yet discussed and you cannot have a replica. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's procedural. Please, when Mrs. Irgle calls someone so personally and tells them what you are, what is, what is not to stop. The lady privatized this committee. We read in Croatian media that she's going to take things to her last breath. I want her long and deep breaths. Mails and letters don't say "Mirka Brutz," but we get them from some people, so I won't say who. That's why I think she's gone into a debate, and I'm sure the future is somewhere else, not on the committee that's running it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u59	Thank you very much. For a procedural warning and a proposal: among them, I have also specifically observed one paragraph that went beyond certain truly ethical debates in this national assembly outside the rules of procedure. And I agree with you. As your proposer, you want a word, Mr. Vinko Gorenak?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Vice-President, I must protest on behalf of the proposer against such a way of leading. Indeed, Mr Brulc was not entitled to the so-called replica, which you yourself have identified and, of course, offered him immediately on a procedural basis. Then he changed his mind and gradually attacked Mrs Eva Irgle, who had, at least for my understanding, the most polite debate ever. And you, in the most polite debate, recognize the elements I don't know what. It would be really good for you to start looking back also a little bit after the President of the National Assembly, who I also had a little under criticism in my past performances here, but today he has played a role called the President of the National Assembly, as prescribed by the Constitution and the laws. I want you to do a little copy of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Only the indications of that holy cow from the front and back, that shape the Slovenian destiny and so on. I believe that I am guarding democracy and debate in this direction – in a way that is insulting to people. That's why I mentioned it, Dr. Gorenak. Here you go, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I gradually understood that Mr. Brulc would point to something that hit him because he wanted a replica. And what you're saying about the sacred cows had nothing to do with Mr. Brullac. And I'd like to ask you nicely if you're really quoting that sentence that Mr. Brultz wanted the replica on, and you've noticed that it's a problem. By the way, the minister of Virant has been talking about sacred cows for a long time, and no one has warned him. No one, not the chairman – perhaps even you were in charge of that part of the session when he spoke of the absence of holy cows in that country. And that expression didn't confuse anyone completely. If someone else now uses the term "holy cow" three words in the front and two in the back, it is a grave violation of the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You, Madam President, should, if you are already stumbled by such a thing, put up the matter and, above all, say what is what is in conflict with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Given that I somehow know him, I do not think that anything has been said contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Mr. Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I would try to discuss the work of the prosecutor's office in economic crime. If I'm gonna miss the darkness, you can correct me a little, because sometimes it's hard for me to find myself in a real session. I'd like to talk about the phenomenon of the persecution of economic crime in this country. Of course, it is right that the direction and priority of this government is the fight against economic crime, but when we look at these issues, we see that this economic crime has started and has been going on for years, for example, 2003, 2004, 2005 and so on. It is said that this moment we are processing things that may be 5 years old or older. And now the question is, where did this flash come from, to process some things that happened far back in history - otherwise they were not, thank God, even obsolete - and these were the acts that were committed at the time, the crimes committed by the same prosecutors, the same police officers, the same judges and the same journalists. We are talking about something that was criminal at the time and is now criminal. We judge people at this point, we process them, and that's the right thing to do. Something must have happened. There's been an economic crisis. Enlightenment occurred, and the harmful consequences of the practices that had been harmful since then, but obviously all these disasters had to happen to us to realize that something was criminal and harmful, which was criminal and harmful at the time. First, in this country, the media is moving and then everyone else is on a running streak, of course, all with one big delay. And at this moment we process people who in those days sat first with politicians who donated this policy, which were carved, many of them, into marble at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, and then we worshiped them as national heroes because they ran successful Slovenian companies, in front of everyone. I wonder if these people who are now before the courts have understood what they are accused of, what they have done wrong. I don't even think these people understand. I have a feeling that some Ivan Zidar doesn't even understand why we're driving him from an investigative judge to a prosecutor and so on. Because that's how things felt back then. We sat down, sliced some sausage, drank a glass of wine, and we made up our minds. Apparently, in Slovenian companies we will be masters. And that's how we got credit, and so on. And then this spiral went on forever, and we covered the whole line. Now we're processing these people, which is the right thing to do. All I'm saying is that a lot of people in this country haven't done their homework, which is what they've been paid for. This is about the same thing as, say – I want to be graphic. In one of my previous jobs, we had a disciplinary procedure when the head of an employee put him on a disciplinary committee when he got drunk at work. And his defense was -- for a while he was looking at it thickly, and then he said, "What about you? I've been drinking for 20 years, and no one's ever asked me anything." And that's the phenomenon I'm warning you about. We do not react to something that has always been harmful. We react when these dimensions become pre-dimensionated and when we come to harmful consequences that we can no longer control. Maybe this debate I was having was too graphic, maybe even out of context. I was talking about the prosecution and all the other mechanisms in this country that I want to be critical of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u67	I'm sorry. Prepare yourself, Mr Happy Meh and Mrs Kotnik Poropat. Thank you. Mr. Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u68	Thanks a lot. Previously, the Minister said in his debate that people expect to step together, however, to do something good for this country, that is, for people to step together, that the rule of law will work, that we should step together, that there should be less unemployment, that we should make economic conditions, that we should condemn what is to be condemned, and that he himself said that some things are moving and yet he is not satisfied with them. In the National Assembly alone, as legislators on the part of the Constitutional Court, I think that eight open cases, eight open laws that the National Assembly has not dealt with, should be, because the Constitutional Court has decided that some parts of the laws are contrary to the Constitution. I don't know, I may even think that today some colleagues of the coalition regret that you have not supported the proposed decisions that were ready to take a decision at this meeting of the National Assembly. Perhaps you are sorry that you rejected this either because of the arrogance and sense of size, the importance, or because you also spoke in your debate about the fact that this was not dealt with by the real Commission. And if it's not for you, then I would expect you to put these proposals on a committee you think is right in the coming days. What did Comrade Braniselle say before? For 20 years it was also, they didn't warn and so on, and they even thought they were doing the right thing. Even today, some still think they are doing the right thing, and a year ago, it was clearly stated by the KPC that they were active in systemic corruption, systemic corruption, for large amounts of money. Nobody asks them where they could get such large individual shares. There were questions as to where and how the sponsorships, which were from a hundred to a half million, were determined, and nothing happens, and they probably still think they're doing the right thing. And you in the coalition think you're doing the right thing by rejecting conclusions just because they're on the side of the opposition. It's not right. And you know, some people thought they were doing the right thing — a large part of the government was preparing legislation with external helpers. Look, I still remember when this whole Paradise was the 34 LDS Members, and not everyone else, even those who were in the coalition, had no opportunity to change, not even to the ankle, much more, because the arrogant machine worked the way it worked. Even more, between 1996 and 2000, an investigative commission of damage to social property — so much material, conclusions — was accepted, but because they thought they were doing the right thing, the National Assembly also withdrew the point from the meeting of the National Assembly, which was totally contrary to the rules of procedure and so on. But it all happened. Why? I still think, and I am sure, that the fundamental sin of this democracy, which began then in the following, so much confidence, is so much political hygiene, but of course you can't expect it. I've been in politics too long to count on it. But most of them did not have to go all the way back then, but they should insist more, perhaps even with a referendum or whatever, on the adoption of a lustration law. If a lustration law were passed, there would be no such thing, and today, when we are in a situation where a country is so far in debt because of some arrogance, even close to 70% of the gross domestic product, when so many people are without jobs, when disasters occur from day to day, of course, it is totally unacceptable that your arrogance, which you carry out over what the opposition proposes, is completely unacceptable. Be aware that the opposition is right at some point.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I don't think I'm arrogant if I have my opinion and my thinking, and I believe everyone here has that right. I also think that everyone in the National Assembly and in general think that we are doing the right thing. Whenever we did something, we always thought we were doing the right thing. But the question is, what does most people think? The question is, what do people think, what does it say in the legislation and the question of who's the law of reasons? Then, of course, the question is what is right and whether we are doing the right thing or not. But where Mr Bogovic started and concluded, it would suggest that the debate in the National Assembly on the subject should be concluded. Because he had a substantive discussion on the issue, and if anyone really wanted to do something at this point in the agenda and on the like, then he would make sure that at least most of the conclusions were acceptable, not that conclusions were based on conclusions and then those conclusions were intended for something. I will try to explain something anyway, and I would, if there were no individual debates, later be able to conclude on what Mr Bogovic said, because it seems to me that it is extremely wise, prudent to say what has happened, what is happening. I also protest against it – I was not in because I would have jumped otherwise – that someone is now talking about who is a member of the Udba or anything. Evidence, say it, say it out loud. Of course, I will not say that this is what is being said today by the one who was the educator of the young families of the militia, the commander, the assistant chief of inspectorate and all that in the system that did everything wrong. When this man accuses us, who also lived in that system and lived in that system as it is right, then I cannot say that this is a credible charge. And if in the beginning I proposed procedurally with an extremely clear mind without accusing anyone of not discussing this topic today, because it would be right to discuss everything that is happening on the ground, what people think, what people are doing, what kind of crisis they are in. Of course, this proposal has not been adopted. Did the government prepare the materials for today's meeting? Did the government prepare the materials for interpretation in 15 days? Is this an act that we saw two days ago that the SDS brought back documentation or ten thousand signatures, what the problem is now? No, ladies and gentlemen. This moment is about how we will ensure unity in the National Assembly in repairing the damage caused here, and it is clear that whatever Mr Tanko thought the Government should report – the government has done its job because it helped where it needed to be. When she has data on the damage and recovery proposals, no one thinks we're going to say that now: so much money and so much more. So it is necessary to have comprehensive conclusions and, of course, comprehensive proposals, and then we can speak, otherwise we will lead the policy as we do today. Now there's one more thing. Did we investigate the disappearance of signatures between the National Assembly and the Ministry? Have we looked into these signatures? Do we know who's responsible for these signatures? Ladies and gentlemen, we don't know. Did we say anything about that? Let me just say one more thing. Today it has also been said from the types of SDS how few of us are here. I agree with that, but I'm sorry, there are no signatories here today. They apologized to Andrej Šircelj, Dragutin Mate, Zvonko Černač, Janja Attack, Irena Tavčar. Surely everyone has a very important commitment or assignment, and surely someone else has a very important one, one who is not here today and has apologized. Let us be righteous and treat all things equally. However, of course, I think that this is a continuous SDS action, because he also requested this meeting of the National Assembly, carried out to the place of SDS, that it is a well-known idea that what is good for us is not good for the country or vice versa. That's why interpellation is here for the minister, so there have been so many interpretations, so they're archives, so they're signatures, so there's also today's meeting, and that's why there's also a lot of other meetings where we're dealing with things that don't have the basis that are poorly prepared, as there's not enough material for today's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, someone said that Slovenia is turning red. So long, ladies and gentlemen, while Slovenia was red, we had a good image for so long. We were the best. We were the best in the whole Eastern world, and we could have had lunch with everyone else. And when an old mother, an older lady than me, was asked, or anyone, if it was true that the communists were red, she said, "No, they were gold." Back then, there were no hungry jobs, then we could move around, and there was no such debate as is here today, and so on. And that's why I think there's been a lot of good and we're building this Slovenia on this good one. Does anyone know of any economic society that was created at this time and is the foundation of the Slovenian economy? Everything that's happened in another system. Now this, Dr. Gorenak. In the beginning, I made a purely business proposal, which is my right. I didn't accuse anyone of anything, but you personally attacked me that it was my manner, such and different, purely personal, with the name Happy Meh. I didn't even mention you. This, of course, means that it is the manner of a man who can still have such a name, but it cannot be made of his own skin, of that essence. But she's worried about something else, ladies and gentlemen. It is concerned that politics also wants to prevail today over the judiciary, on the prosecution that politics wants to influence the judiciary and the prosecution, which it should never have done. We must adopt those laws and laws with which the judiciary and the prosecution can work successfully. We must ensure the conditions for their work. Of course, I also consider that we will not get involved in the work of prosecutors in this way and say that Mr. Attorney General is fine, but he is not appropriate. In fact, it's not appropriate because as a leader, he has everything that the state's attorney shouldn't have. Ladies and gentlemen, these are such characteristics or are so severe that we can understand in some way as to exert pressure on the autonomous branch of power, on those on which the rule of law should prevail. And there's something else about the big and little thieves. You know, a thief is a thief, big but small. That you're tabling someone by saying that he's a chicken thief, because maybe only for a few hundred thousand euros he can't prove where he has them, but that the other big thief is because he can't prove it – even I can't fit in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u72	Madam Vice President! You've been so busy. I don't know what you were doing, but I saw that you were busy. You haven't noticed any of the insults your colleague has made. You haven't noticed that he's gone completely into other subjects, so let's keep working now when I'm talking, and don't notice anything about me. So we'll be on the same level. Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, we're on our way. Conclusions on the conclusions. I'm afraid we're going to go read them. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do everything to ensure that the relatives and descendants of the displaced persons find the remains and can be buried." This is a civil decision that your Group of Members has not personally supported. That's why it's not the conclusion of the decision, but the conclusion isn't because you threw it away. Come in. I don't have a problem with my police career, and militia, completely. From the first day of 1977 to the last day. No problem. I wasn't an associate of the Udba or the State Security Service, and as far as I can tell, neither were you. So I don't know why you're having trouble with this. But if you think you have to mention it, then I can mention you, too, and I'm going back to the first job you've done if you think you need it. I don't have a problem with that. How do we ensure unity? First, we must do something else to ensure unity, and we will probably be very united when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia brings into this national assembly laws that will help these people who are at work today and those who are affected. Then we'll probably be very united. We're not going to stop you from doing this, but we're going to support the conclusions. Let me remind you of a few unpleasant details. Look, everybody's talking about firefighters now, everybody's talking about help, I don't know what. You also started with this in the beginning to stop the session and so on. But see, in the 2014 budget you deleted all assistance to firefighters, and in the 2015 budget you also deleted all assistance to firefighters. These are the gentlemen who are today – they are not gentlemen, they are laborers and we must thank them. Then we made an amendment to give them EUR 5 million, which was given by Mr Hrvat. Then you supported this for 2014, and for 2015 you took everything from them. Mr. Croat received a written thank you for making the amendment. I thank you for your support, but for 2015 you took everything from them. As for the Government's efforts, which you also mentioned, let me quote Mr Trebushak on Kanal A, who said to the previous day: "The Prime Minister of the Government and Defence Minister Jakič went back to the Upper Savinja Valley today, but we cannot say to this visit that he helped and was only for the media." Let's know. But, as I told you earlier, two days after the floods in Gorenjska, in the vicinity of Škofja Loka, we have decided to give 500 000 euros of immediate assistance only to that end. And you are 317 thousand in all of Slovenia, and 350 thousand in the pocket of your coalition MP, the then minister or his company. So much for that. Signatures lost – I don't know what else you want. Maybe you'll go looking for them again and it'll go through or you'll put in some more interpolation, but now it's not going against me anymore. But you used your voice when you voted in favour of interpolation. Badly prepared material. I already asked you. At the initiative of your colleague, I will prepare a new material, which is the one with the members of the State Security Service. And I'm asking you what you want me to do there. Articles, pictures, text – what would you like? Maybe I'll put up a bow, a gold watch with a waterworks like I said before, or how would that work? We have never pressured Mr Fischer at all and never, but I have made it very clear that the Court has decided that he acted unlawfully, and I have made it very clear that the Anti-Corruption Commission has found that he acted corruptly and that the Supreme Court has then said that they must not publish. If these are pressures on him for you — they are not pressures. Even your residential or whatever, Borčevski, former President Stanovnik found time at the 91st year to carry three roses, as you know, to the grave of those slain people whom Mr Fisher accused, those priests. This is no pressure on Mr. Fisher. In fact, in 1995, the Supreme Court found that the act of priests was not a crime at the time. It is said to be Mr Fisher's professional fault and not any kind of pressure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The request for an extraordinary meeting on the situation at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office is, as we have assessed, some members of the home working body, namely the Justice Committee, essentially the interpretation of the case against the Attorney General, Dr. Zvonk Fischer. We note that today there has been more debate in this direction that the State Prosecutor's Office is working, that the Court is also working, but we all want this Prosecutor's Office to do better in order to make it work faster, especially because the most serious crimes in our country should be dealt with as soon as possible. Minister Plicanic has today pointed out the need to ensure justice in our country. This is what citizens expect. In order to achieve justice as soon as possible, the government has decided that the prosecution will be strengthened financially as well as human resources. This will provide basic or better conditions for the work of the State Prosecutor's Office. I would also point out that the prosecution has made sure that all bank crimes will be processed by the end of 2015. The National Investigation Authority or the NPU will also receive more resources and also human resources reinforcements. We can therefore rightly expect the work of the prosecution to improve significantly. Now I would like to touch on the conclusions proposed in the paper that the coalition has not supported. So, we have already heard about the first decision today, and I would also like to reiterate that the National Assembly is engaged in the work of the State Prosecutor's Office and is informed of it every year when it examines the report on the work of the State Prosecutor's Office. At that time, Members and Members shall also adopt a position to assess the work of the Authority whether it is appropriate or necessary to improve. In this case, this decision was not necessary. The Coalition also considered that the other proposed decisions were not necessary or that they did not need to be adopted, since in no way would they, I repeat, contribute in any way to the more effective or better part of the state's prosecution. We need to give the prosecutors conditions for work and then leave them to work. This is essential, at least in my opinion. The same applies to the judiciary. Allow me now to touch on two more matters in this request for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which the SDS has submitted, and I would like to say something about the archives. There's evidence in the material that the archives are closing again. I am sure, and I am also a member of the Committee on Culture, where we have talked a lot about these archives, listened to the views of both the coalition and the opposition, the position of the ministry and the profession, and found that the archives will be more open in the future than they have been so far, I repeat, more open. That, of course, some personal data will be hidden so that everyone will not be allowed to look into some personal data, but, for example, at the sexual orientation of a person and so on. However, if an individual shows an interest in this and makes an application, it will be discussed by a special commission led by a respected Mrs Beast, and I am confident that this Commission will rightly judge the eligibility and that such an interested person will then be able to look into such a document and in such personal data. If you'll allow me one more time, I'd like to say something about the European People's Party resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that our country, the Republic of Slovenia, is a sovereign country, which is included in the European Union, but I do not believe that any party at the European level, nor does an EPP party, has the right to interfere in the internal affairs of our country and that it does not have the right to judge our judicial system. This is our sovereign right, and I think we should talk more about this today. Maybe I'm wrong, you're laughing at one another, but I think we're sovereign and no country can influence or judge our internal order. That is why I think that the National Assembly should say something about this today and conclude on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat. As a proponent, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs Porotat, the European People's Party is not a country because a country called the European People's Party is not on the map of Europe. I'm really sorry, but you're confusing this stuff too often, so I have to point out that no one will think that any foreign country is interfering with our affairs. The European People's Party is the largest political party within the European Union, not the country. That's one. It also has far most Members in the European Parliament, and this party has not intervened in our internal affairs, but this party has, inter alia, written down that it expects the matter to be resolved at a second stage within three months. This is not interference, but it is a summary of what Mr Plitschani has signed. He signed that the second stage procedures would take three months, but now it has been five months. It is said that the European People's Party, among other things, has expressed only the belief that the Slovenian courts will respect what they have determined. So this is no interference in our internal affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Kotnik Poropat, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Gorenak, it is clear to me that this is a party that this is not a country. Nevertheless, I still insist that the party does not have the right to intervene, even if the ambassador does not, as the American ambassador did, and whether it will be judged at such a time or not. I don't think that's right and it's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik is next in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u80	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. I'm glad to get back to the basics of today's essence. Above all, the basic roadblock is the operation of certain systems and subsystems or the failure of these systems and subsystems on which our country can be based at all. Above all, I think it makes sense, at least at the beginning of this debate, to say that the market economy and capitalism are operating in specific situations and that country must lay certain conditions. One of the conditions is the legal security of all entities in this country. The judiciary is, of course, an independent branch of power, although it must also be understood that the judges for their term are somehow voted in the National Assembly, so they are directly voted through the legislative branch of power. They do not have the direct mandate of the people as such, but they have it through the Members of the National Assembly. So once they come to this position, there is an opinion here that this should no longer be discussed. What seems important to me today, where there are some things we can say, is above all the first thing. It's that the judicial system doesn't work. This is not what the Slovenian Democratic Party is talking about, but, above all, many judicatures, the judgments of the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. If I announce one of these opinions from the Strasbourg court in Slovenia somehow, I will say the following. The European Court of Human Rights, which has made a significant contribution over the past 50 years to raising standards of respect for human rights in Europe, has the role of a spare instance that, with its impact, achieves that the problems of domestic justice in the Member States of the Council of Europe are regulated. An example of such an incentive to deal with cases is the case of Lukend, the first case successfully resolved in the Court of Human Rights, an action against Slovenia for infringement of the rights of trial within a reasonable time. Indeed, infringements of such rights or of judicial backlogs have been the most common reason for successful actions against Slovenia, which have already cost millions of euros and are likely to remain due to continuing backlogs. The judicial backlog is due to the incompetence of the Slovenian judiciary and is, in fact, only an external symptom of the quantitative inability to solve the cases that are lagging behind, and the qualitative incompetence of our courts lies in the background. This is the essence that is not explained by us, but explained by foreign experts in the field of justice. Now what we have to do is continue in this debate, which I think is crucial. Even the market economy, including the backlog of economic disputes in the courts, is our country's problem, and this is one of the foundations that somehow restricts us, for the first time, the entry of foreign investors into Slovenia, and for the second time restricts us that this legal certainty also indirectly affects economic operators, namely, the fear of investing in Slovenia in some foreign investment, if the legal state or at least the judicial part of it does not work or is not in some reasonable time. That's the problem we have. This is the first basis, i.e. the failure of the judiciary to act in the event of economic disputes. Another case that we are dealing with at this time: five billion and something else is missing in Slovenian banks, which is happening to us for the second time. I am aware that this is an extremely sophisticated crime, where the state prosecutor also needs undisputed experts in financial matters, banking, even in the field of computer science, and I have also told the committee that they should come up with proposals, which experts and what measures we can take in the National Assembly to assist the prosecution, because this seems important to me. However, it seems important to me in this direction to get the best shot, because it has always happened that criminals in this area of criminal activity are somehow always a step or even two steps ahead of the judiciary, especially before prosecutors. That's the other part. However, the third part that we have been talking about in Parliament in the last period is, of course, the investigation of worse crimes. The offences of the former State Security Service in Slovenia are unfortunately obsolete in most cases, in the case of typical classical killings. As a result, the current procedures are ongoing in Germany and Austria, while the so-called crime or genocide against humanity is ongoing in Slovenia. In this sense, the procedure cannot be based on just one case, but the law enforcement authorities need to identify some of these procedures in order to determine which direction they have gone, so that we can even identify genocide over some part of the population. The genocide is not only linked to some war situation under international criminal law, but is linked to a particular group of people. We know, and we can say today, that in this group of people, all those who thought differently in the former totalitarian regime were all outside the political options of the Communist Union and persecuted by the State Security Service. It is also important to say that the State Security Service had no connection with the police, as Mr Meh had previously stated, but that the State Security Service was directly subordinated to the highest authority, i.e. the so-called Central Committee of the Republic Union of Communists or the State Central Committee. That's what you have to say. Many, who were also in the Communist Union, had no idea of these acts, and today they would be wronged if they spoke in this direction. It is important to say who was at the time the summit, who was the commander of these crimes, who were the ones who had the greatest benefit from these crimes. But that's something we can discuss. First of all, the highest peak, which led the country, was the central committee I spoke of, which was the seat of the former President of the State, Mr Marinc, Mr Popit, Mr Šetinc and so on. Then this central committee has always been redesigned and somehow renewed. These names are unequivocal and we can talk about them. We can talk about this because there is legal practice and the Supreme Court wrote it in its caselaw of 23 May 2003. It was a special court case that came to the Supreme Court, where one of the former members of the SDV sued Mag magazine, that they were slandering and thus destroying his good name, and Mag confirmed it with authentic archival documents. The Supreme Court then wrote the following in its argument: "The publication of the document of the Secret Service of the Udba was therefore in the public interest in the present case, because it represented the disclosure of the work of the historical event, which is still going on today, and has not yet been fully and impartially investigated and evaluated independently of the ruling ideology of the previous system. The content of the document does not refer to private matters, but rather to the public or political sphere of action of the private prosecutor, and the publication of the document does not constitute a prohibited interference with the constitutionally protected privacy of the private prosecutor." Of course, this judicata also speaks of what the State Security Service represented. The State Security Service, among other things, wrote: "The said internal report is a historical document that was produced in the former Yugoslav secret police known as Ubba. Today, it is known that this service not only dealt with intelligence tasks but also organized various criminal activities itself, deliberately challenged them, and designed the existence and responsibility of crimes. To this end, it has also falsified, fabricated or suppressed burdensome evidence. Victims of such activities, usually political opponents or otherwise-thinking, did not generally have the opportunity to disclose the structures of the Resurrection and Rehabilitation during the period of the regime." So this is the judicata that talks exactly about these people. It's about perverted people acting for their own good. So they were granted extraordinary privileges in the previous system, including their families, and today we recognize them. Many have already retired, and some are working. As we can see, some in the late 1980s are directors of many companies, some of them also operate in state-owned companies, in those in which the largest cash flows are made today. Some of these people have an impact on justice, some of them are in the National Assembly, some of them are in the media, especially as responsible editors, some of them are in one of the media on national television, and so it works. That expression, so-called udbomafia, remained. We did not break this network and this is exactly what the European Parliament resolution 1996 was talking about and warned us. After 45 years, this network is so homogeneous, so powerful that you can't break it down with classical democratic procedures. You can use one special law called lustration. And exactly the countries that have done this have fewer problems, they are more developing, they are making it easier to move forward, and the institutions of the country are working. This is why it is necessary to understand why the economic system does not work, why these institutions do not work, and why there is no trial in some reasonable time. All of this has to do with what we are talking about today. And that's what people see in their spheres, especially in their accounts. Retired, that pension they get for 40 years of hard work. You can see all of this. And when someone here today tells me how good it was in the previous system, I ask them to warn the pensioners, to look at those who were really good and hardworking who had worked for 40 years, their pension in their profession and to see what kind of pension Austria had. Are the Austrians more capable? They had the conditions of a normal market economy, Mr Meh. That's it. We barely reached one third of GDP in the former Yugoslavia in 1990 when we broke. One third of Austria's GDP, Mr Meh. Can you imagine? A nation that lived for 650 years in the common territory of the Habsburg monarchy, and then one nation has one part, and one nation has one third of that work, and you say that this system was good. In mass violation, in 618 postwar graves, in many undetected crimes. You're saying that it was something good when we were killed after the war by all the elites that we had, that we had for 250 years in this space, all the city, all the big farmers, all the academic circles, spheres, especially social scenes, sociology, economics, law. It's all gone. All of this ended in mine shafts or went abroad. Why do half a million Slovenians, Mr Meh, live abroad, explain to us if it was so good in this former country. Why did half a million Slovenians leave? Why didn't the Austrians and the Germans work in the former Yugoslavia? Why didn't they come here if everything was so good? Those are the questions. These are really not the questions today that you're talking about how the former system worked, the black ones your friends, the ones who are [[Incomprehensible]] This country, they were unable to step aside to repent, to leave public life because those who were standing here in 1990 thought they were gentlemen and acted gentlemenly. They didn't want to pull them out and throw them out of all the institutions, and that's the problem we have. The gentlemen stepped forward and treated the people in a gender-based manner, which, of course, were not gentlemen, because someone who had spent 40 years surrounding his fellow citizens, charged them with nothing to blame for condemning them, killing them, or expelling them from this former country, was not a man who would then be self-critical and would leave public life in 1990. And that's the problem that we have today, why this country can't work for us. A nation that builds its existence on lies can never exist again. That's what history tells us. The Roman state has collapsed, many nations who have lived a lie have perished, and we cannot survive in the long run. And a nation that does not know its history cannot believe what is happening at this time, and we will never have to plan for a serious future. And in the end. Those who voted against those fundamental civilisations of some normal European society at both meetings of the petition commission will have to ask themselves. It's going to be history, it goes to anals, it goes to the lowest bottom, and I always have to ask myself in politics where we are united. If we cannot identify ourselves with fundamental civil standards, respected colleagues, then we are a sick society and have no future. Because I don't know where else we're gonna identify. And believe me, you can replicate, you can try everything else, but history will show you. I believe that many more near this House will not see that the people, those who write me letters at this time, come from your options and are appalled. I'm not talking about all my colleagues. I'll say one more thing. I respect a lot of colleagues who are not on my political option, who are thinking differently. I'm learning from them. But you know, if someone doesn't support basic civilisation standards, I have an opinion about them. But I have an opinion about such people, and I must admit that I can despise such people even though I have never known that feeling before. That's the last thing I wanted to say today. I thank you. I believe we will gather some courage. I believe we'll miss it. I believe that we, even those who may not support or do not hope to take a step forward and that we can only ask the judiciary, do not want to influence with some matters that this is in common good. There are also foreign investors who are waiting to find out that this country will start operating. If it works, they'll step in here with that surplus capital. If not, we are an infected area, we are like a plague, like a black plague that is in here, and no one will enter this area because everyone is afraid for their money, afraid that this money will flush out, just as it has flushed out from state banks and all the other institutions. So I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, that you take this meeting seriously, that you do not despise us and that together we literally open this truth, bite into this sour apple, and that those next measures, to strengthen the economy and everything else, we are going towards some normal European country as well as normal European society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, it's probably a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's the thing. You know, to tell me that I don't have the guts to vote – believe me, I do. I consciously voted every time I voted for anything, and this decision was as brave as my father's decision when he went to the partisans and fought for today's freedom by the side of all the other alliances, against the fascists of course and also against humanity. However, when I discussed these red and black companies, I discussed it on the basis of Mr Grims' debate. He was talking about the red country, about the red country, and I was saying that I wasn't really ashamed of the times I lived in. Ladies and gentlemen, we lived in a country that had its own legal order, and in this legal order were all those who worked at that time. I'm sure Mr. Gorenak will know more about this than I do. I was a simple miner and nothing else. I've never dealt with things the way they are spoken here. The decisions that we make — don’t tell me that I’m afraid of someone and that I’m under some kind of influence. This could be some kind of bottleneck. Someone can do that. We certainly don't have to work, nobody commands us, that is, the Social Democrats. We are discussing exactly as we think, and so is the case. I am sorry, however, for listening to Mr Bogovich when he was discussing it. He was very good at discussing the issue of this moment, which is also about what we should do in the field of prosecution, and therefore I think it would be appropriate to listen to such discussions, which are essentially calm, which are not directed at anyone who is not cutting. Indeed, it is also necessary if we are to chandelier someone, and in fact, the chandelier at this point is that we must respect the legislation of the moment and the legislation that was in force at that time. That seems to be the point. Otherwise, I could only say as much about that system as I know. I don't know who led the fate. Mr Gorenak will also be able to say this, not because Mr Breznik explained to me that I probably know that the police or the militia did not lead the Udba. I know that, the one who led the Judgment, but I certainly don't know. Let those who know so much say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u83	Mag. Ivan Vogrin, then Mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I've been thinking all the time about how to start this debate to say something smart about all the smart things, and I've decided to start with my kids' story. A while ago, I told my five-year-old daughter and her six-year-old son to clean up the room. She comes to me, laughs at me and says, "Daddy, don't tell me things I don't want to hear." I look at her and say, "Yeah, where did you hear that?" He says, "In Madagascar. There is King Julius, who has two advisors. One puffs at his soul and tells him everything he wants to hear, and the other is a little more clever and tells him things he doesn't want to hear." Churchill already said, "We benefit most from those things, those truths we don't want to hear." I'm lucky to be living in an environment with very small children who are not yet corrupt. Or you have to hang out with very old people who have been through their prime time because they're bored, the hypocrisy has gone away. And listen. The problem with all of us is that we don't listen. I'm lucky to have little kids to learn to listen to. I listen to kids, too. That's an advantage if you have children in two rounds, if you have a little more mature children. Of course, there is also a lot of weakness, and it is not something to boast about, but it happens. Look, I've been trying to explain, or maybe in a slightly more humorous way, what I'm missing — to listen to ourselves, and that what someone is telling us, we don't want to hear, we probably have much use. I can see that the ladies there are smiling very wickedly, and I like that, because this is also lacking in this national assembly. You know, life is still nice. But he puts us before many trials, and this too will bring many truths, but another time. Let's get to the point. The information provided by Dr. Gorenak certainly does. There's probably nothing to argue with them, but, dear colleagues, the whole country is so structured. We have a million citizens of 45 Members, and Austria 22 and Germany 10 and could list. We need to shrink across the public sector. But of course I don't hear that. You know, I didn't hear it either. The accountant told me in 2010: "Director, our income is falling, you have to do something. You need to fire some employees. You should probably get to 60 from 80." I said, "Listen, this won't hold for us. We're a special supersonic company." And we went bankrupt, just like Slovenia. You know, these are my experiences and I speak from experience. Of course, the system’s institutions are not functioning and will not heal themselves, because no surgeon has ever performed an operation on his own. No, it's not. That's what the book of Parkinson's was published 50 years ago, and I took it to a large extent in one of my two books. And you know what the lady wrote -- she said I shouldn't name her -- which she was lecturing, and it wasn't written because she said she didn't want to be named because the tax office would start chasing her immediately, what she earned, and she lectured me for free. Retired Slovenian professor – see what a wise thought. We will never again achieve prosperity as a country. We'll just sell ourselves and serve others. What are we doing now, ladies and gentlemen? Mr Meh – we understand each other very well, I do not blame anyone personally – says: "We must respect the legal order." Ladies and gentlemen, I think I repeat five or six times: on 24 May, we adopted a decree declaring the constitutional law to enter the fiscal rule. On 24 November 2013, the law should be adopted. Where's our constitutional order? Is it only valid in one case? Thank you very much. I'm afraid I have a little time at my disposal. How many wise thoughts would I say if I had enough? Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u85	Thank you very much, mag. Vogrin. It's mag. Leila Hercegovac and then Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u86	Thank you. Dear representatives of the Ministry, the police, colleagues and colleagues! Today is the 54th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and the agenda is: a proposal for a decision on the situation at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, on the prosecution of the worst forms of economic financial crime and on the detection of suspects of crimes of the former SDV. We've been talking about this for 4 days, in the State Council 4. 2, 5 at the Committee on Justice, 6 at the Committee on Petitions and today at an extraordinary meeting. Of all things, I want a positive red thread, that is, we have found that the state prosecutor has problems, like the police, but as well as health care, education, the economy and all other sectors in the country. However, the title of today's meeting could also be the State of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposals made by Members at the meetings. So any proposal we have today would be right. But let's get positive about what I've been listening to for four days. The prosecution has problems, the government has listened, we lack people to work on the prosecution, the state prosecutor's office is executive, let's let politics and the National Assembly as a legislative body not interfere with this branch of government, let's give them room to work alone. Of course, the human factor is always in play. We can have great marriages, but if the human factor isn't right, then we also have bad results. Solutions: Good laws, which is our task in the National Assembly, good communication, which is our task in the National Assembly, respect, which is our task in the National Assembly, and human factor, ethically moral, which is our task in the National Assembly. And I'm done with that. So let the authorities do their job, and it's positive that we find that we have to fix all branches of society, but we have to fix ourselves first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u88	Thank you. Just respond to one thing, Mrs Hercegovac – give them and they are too few. You probably didn't hear me in the introduction, I don't know, I'll say it again. Austria has 2.6 prosecutors per hundred thousand inhabitants, Italy 3.8, Germany 6.2, and we 9. Just one more piece of information if you haven't heard from me before. Austrian prosecutors save 353 files a year, Italian 257, German 234, and our 71. Just enough to tell you that these data, which are European data, certainly do not support what our government is doing and what you think – that more prosecutors should be given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr. Honey, I'm sorry. A little longer if you wait. The replica has a mag. He's a duke.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, you misunderstood me. I didn't say that this number could be any different, but I said that communication is a human factor and organization, and that's what this is all about. So your observation seems inappropriate to me because I was not properly understood by you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u91	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u92	Just one sentence. I agree with you. Of course, everything depends on the organization and that, but the organization is run by a leader, and this is Dr. Fisher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u93	Thank you very much for this explanation. And now Dr. Sweet Jelusic and then Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u94	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I am one of those who have not had the opportunity to monitor discussions on working bodies, not on the Committee on Justice and not on the Committee on Petitions, and I am trying to generate my opinion on today's session through what we had in the material and through today's debates. And I must say that those who are here and we are following this debate are taking the debate or meeting very seriously. And I also belong to those who take this session very seriously. This is the answer to one of the debaters who has so far made it clear that we are being unserious until this meeting. However, I must say that, despite all the seriousness and approach to this material, it is difficult to find a red thread both in debates and in material, because one part of this material relates to issues of the work of the Attorney General's Office and particularly of the Prosecutor, but one part relates to a historical topic which is certainly important in terms of Slovenian history and personal history of some people. Of course, it is difficult to find a direct link between one topic and another, and therefore it is difficult to see this whole conclusion as a related whole. It has also been said that certain data are used in debaters, and there is quite a lot of data in the material. A colleague of mags. Vogrin also said that there was nothing to dispute with the information given by Dr. Gorenak. I have read the Government's position on this material prepared for today's meeting, and this material or the Government's opinion on the proposal for a decision is quite clear that the data used in this paper are based on the contested methodological basis. So I'm not really sure if it's entirely true to the data that's being mentioned here today. I was also somewhat concerned by the fact that at least 5 members of the Judgment were present in the National Assembly because I do not know on the basis of what methodology the applicant came up with this information and, in particular, on the basis of what he knows that there were no members of the Judgment between his fellow Members and his fellow Members, because this would indicate that there is clearly some archives of the Judgment going to be examined in the process of the candidature as to whether there was an associate or even going to clear up some archives of the Judgment when he is in power and has access to such documents or was in authority, so it is more correct to say. In short, I wouldn't put my hand in fire for anyone, because I don't know what kind of pressure people in the old country were living under when it came to working with the State Security Authority, but obviously some people know how it went. So it would be okay if you presented this methodology to us here, so that we will not all remain, at least 60, as if we were now accused before the Slovenian public, as if we were members of the Udba. The next thing I would like to point out is one statement from the material, as well as a presentation by the applicant, which says that not only in the number of prosecutors, but also in the number of complaints processed, and so on, we are not comparable to Europe. I would point out that, in Slovenia and in this political debate in many ways, we are not comparable to Europe or with the civilisation standards that apply to the rule of law of a developed Western European society, for example, if we want to be a Western European society. Indeed, for some time now, at least for a year, if not longer, there have been considerable debates here in the National Assembly on the state of justice, and these debates all the time point to the need to extend jurisdiction, particularly once on the extension of the powers of the National Assembly and the second time on the extension of the powers of the executive branch to the area of justice or the judiciary. I would say that it would be good if we really respect the rule of law and if we think that we are the rule of law, that it would be right, if this consciousness were also embedded by Members and we were aware that these discussions essentially meant interfering with one of the branches of government, an attempt to take over the powers of this branch of power, which is understood in democratic political systems as a step towards totalitarianism, but here we have heard many times that today's proponents, for example, are very much in favour of a resolution on the condemnation of totalitarianism, European of course, as well as the need to condemn totalitarianism in our country in the past and so on. In short, with actions, concrete actions, the way in which you debate should show that you really condemn totalitarianism, but not with concrete debates, in essence, that you want to delete borders between individual branches of government. The next dilemma that opens up to this material to man is the justification for the materials and discussions on anonyms, as already pointed out by colleague Braniselj in his debate. This material mentions two anonymities, the so-called Fishergate 1 and Fishergate 2. I'm afraid I don't know them. However, I see that not only in this material, but also in the work of several committees and commissions in this Parliament, this system of anonymities is used, for which I no longer know well how they come into being. I was once taught at the Faculty of Social Sciences in subversive propaganda, which is served by anonymouss, how they are written, how they are made up to mix some facts with fictitious facts and then try to verify public opinion on such created or manipulated views as they are recorded in anonymouss. I'm really worried about how these modern-day anonymouss are making these things. Are they still subject to this old theory, as we knew it in subversive propaganda, to a new theory, or to a new practice that sometimes seems to me, as if some of these anonymouss were written so that they could then be invoked on their basis? But I hope you'll challenge me and, of course, tell me then what makes you believe in anonymity. For what the proposer had previously explained, why he believed the other anonymous woman, but when he was first in doubt, or vice versa, it did not seem too convincing to me. In short, I really want to know why anonymous people should believe in modern situations. In that old system, however, they knew very well that anonyms are produced in certain services in order to either discredit individuals, systems or organisations or manipulate a public opinion. I would also draw attention to this phenomenon with which the material is concluded, namely the phenomenon of the European People's Party resolution on the state of Slovenia. I believe that this association of parties and the European People's Party as a whole is one very serious international or European political organisation. And I am also very concerned about how such an organisation can then agree to, sometimes a person would say a lot of provocations from individual Member States or probably from individual parties, where these European decent, distinguished parties are attributed or placed directly in the mouth of certain Member States, that I am not even speaking to the judicial system in individual countries. For if a person expresses concern about the conviction of a particular person in a court of first instance, it is already an attempt to directly influence the decisions of a particular country's judicial system. Warning of a fair trial and so on may be one of the good will of such an international organisation, but in a set of sovereigns, equal states and equal justice systems in the European Union, the use of such warnings as inappropriate interference in the internal affairs of other countries sounds so much more inter-compartmental. So, once, at least that's how they taught us, the Cominterna made statements and opinions about the state in individual countries of that time, before and after World War II. I would say that when we come into these dilemmas, on the one hand, the debate on the Attorney-General's general, the capacity of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office to act, disregarding, of course, the autonomy of each prosecutor in handling matters, and at the same time discussing the SDV and its crimes, of course, it is difficult to have a consistent opinion here. Unless, of course, I can at least claim that in some things, we are not comparable to Europe, certainly not at the point where we do not respect the division of power, when we use anonyms as a serious basis for the materials we use in our deliberations and when we allow and do not hinder ourselves from the views of some international or European parties who are trying to get directly involved in our internal affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Dr. Jelusich. Dr. Gorenak as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u96	I've explained a few things, but I owe it to him. From that number: The European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice. It is a document which has also been published on the website. The data are for 2010. These are data collected according to the same methodology and found on a specific web address, so that there should not be any particular problem here with these data, and they are comparable for all of Europe. So I don't think that this data is objectionable if it was published by the European Commission, and I, of course, drew it out there. That's one thing. You were talking about the members of the Udba. 37 members of the Constitution, national security has already been sitting in this Parliament since 1992, of course in all the compositions of all parliaments. I can't find them among the spring clients. Why can't I find them among the spring clients? At least I know about New Slovenia that there is a provision, so Mr Tonin told me last time at one meeting that state security workers cannot either run or be members or something like that. That's what we had in our house until recently, but I don't know about the human client, but you can't find them. But it is true that these 37 people are found exclusively on the political left, so we do not have much to look at. The source was published in 1996 and is banned in this country, as you know, for about a week because modern technology does its job and is still available today. As far as anonymity is concerned, you have to say the following. I repeat: I did not say exactly what I was doing with them as a minister — I eliminated them and gave them to the people they were referring to, but they were gone. But if the anonymous person confirms that it's true, and the first anonymous person confirms that it's true, then it makes you suspect that the second anonymous person is correct. As far as the European People's Party is concerned, I think that its call for a fair trial is probably a very undeniable European call, very undeniable. However, it is unusual, without any interference in the internal affairs of the State, to say, in the case of Ukraine and Slovenia. In which other countries I didn't see you say, "Let's be honest." And I think that's justified, too, Dr. Jelusich. Look why. The Slovenian judiciary did not implement the law in 1994. It's the same as if you or I got a doctorate on pretty eyes, and you know you could have done a lot for him, just like me, right? While the situation with judges is such that a provision was adopted in 1994 that said: whoever committed human rights violations in the previous system – this is Article 8 of the 1994 Judicial Service Act – cannot be appointed as a permanent term. The Slovenian judiciary did not respect this article and Europe knows this. If this article were respected, Mr Maslesa and Mr Fisher should have completed their career in 1994. Just like you or me, if we don't get the habilitation. That's about the situation. But the Slovenian judiciary did not respect that and Europe knows that, and if Europe knows that, then it is likely that it can say, "Let justice be fair." I think it's a call to civilisation. As for the lack of respect for the independence of the prosecution, I do not think we interfered with the independence of the prosecution. But in the previous term, when you were a minister – I know that you can't monitor other departments, you're very difficult to monitor, but at the time there was really a grave intervention by Mr. Zalar into the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Dr. Gorenak. Replica, Dr. Jelusich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u98	Thank you very much. On one point, Dr. Gorenak would add another information when you said that, except for Ukraine and Slovenia, you did not know that the European People's Party would make such a statement in relation to individual cases. I would also add the example of Croatia, namely the statement by the European People's Party to the defence and protection of Iv Sanader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u99	Now it is Mr Joseph Horvat, followed by Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives and representatives of the government, welcome! I must start by saying that I welcome this debate today. We all know that in recent years, in Slovenia, economic and financial crime has become too rich, and also in the area of the detection of suspects of crimes of the former SDV, and in this self-sustaining history, nothing has been done. We all know that the Resurrection was a criminal among her, if I may say so, but, according to my information, today, no one is left behind, of course, who is still alive. Of course, given the introductory procedural complications, I would prefer to see today that we are considering the government's intervention law, which would go to the people who are suffering from natural disasters. Here I remembered when we were once Slovenian parliamentarians during the 2004-2008 term at the US Congress and there the president of the Transport Committee, perhaps for an infrastructure such as the Congressman of the Slovenian race, told us that in the event of one disaster when a bridge collapsed, an intervention law was passed within 48 hours, which then cured the consequences of the accident. This is what I expected today — that the government will come. We, the smallest client, can't come with an intervention law. You'd say we're enjoying people's accidents. And I hope nothing is delayed, and I suggest to the Government, as a representative of the smallest opposition party, that it, however, focus its activities in this direction in order to help people in an accident. Here I also had a thought, or I had a memory of something bad two years ago — remember when we talked about the Act. And then we objected that technology, here, I mean ICT, is speeding up regulation and speeding up the adaptation of human life in the dynamics of this development of modern technology. It also seems that I can draw an analogy, that criminals are overcoming criminals with their technology. I may be simplifying, but it's probably in the ranks of prosecutors — I don't know, at least it sounds like we don't have enough staff to be undereducated. I don't personally have this information. On the other hand, that's why the confusion is so much bigger, and we have forensic experts. And there's knowledge. One more thing is my conclusion. I can't handle numbers, but if we look at, say, the last ten-year interval, then we can still see that in recent years, there are three, four, five, greater density of prosecution procedures that go against economic and financial criminals. So, something is happening, certainly also on the basis of our discussions, although now someone will be able to draw a logical conclusion from here: yes, based on political pressure. This is not political pressure, this is a debate in Parliament, which is always political. And I think it is good that this debate is also today. As it is said, there should also be in other chapters, in other segments of our lives, but today it is on the agenda, and I regret that we have not been able to have such unity so that we can only accept some conclusions. Because if there are no conclusions, then we're not productive, and here's my regret. Like all of you, colleagues and colleagues, I also meet with many people in the office of the Member or at home who have been wronged, one such or another, and there you are truly powerless as a Member. You just don't know how to help, you just don't know because you can't because we have a separate branch of power. And a citizen comes to me saying that they just emptied his bank account and that wherever he came to, he came to the closed door, to the locked door. That's amazing. It's just one case. There's a lot of them. You too may have received today a letter from a Slovenian who went to Canada in 1969. We Slovenians are entrepreneurship, of course, where the environment is favourable, entrepreneurial. There he made good money with his company and somehow, so it says, out of love for the country of Slovenia he returned and started an entrepreneurial career here. Then he lost a lot. He practically lost his fortune because of an illegal state. And now I remind you again, I like to repeat and I need to repeat what we were reminded of in autumn 2012 at the top of the Slovenian economy in Brdo pri Kranju and asked for a Slovenian economy. Interesting, autumn 2012. She didn't ask us to fix the banks in the first place. First of all, the Slovenian economy said: we want and demand the rule of law. And I will listen to the Slovenian economy, because if we don't create the environment, we in this house, for the economic start, then there will be no jobs, and if there are no jobs, there will be no pensions or health care, there will be no school subsystem like we all want, and we probably deserve it and so on. It is therefore good that we are talking today about the situation in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office regarding the prosecution of the worst forms of economic financial crime. Of course, it's also about the detection of suspects from the former SDV. I hope to see as soon as possible that we can watch the SDV archive online, of course, in accordance with the protection of specific personal data, online.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. It's Mrs. Sonja Ramšak, behind her Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am not surprised that today's introduction to this session, when some Members and Members, in particular, I must say, of the kind of coalition, have somehow assessed this session as a debate on the state of the Attorney General's Office as inappropriate, inappropriate and so on. All of this is always repeated when it is necessary to discuss the essential problems that plague our country and when it is important to note that a system does not work. In this case, according to our request, we wanted, not to politicize, of course, what you did, but to help the prosecution to start doing its job. Look, I don't know where you live. Are you really not going between citizens and citizens? Is it true that people in your offices do not come to you with problems because the prosecution or the judiciary does not produce certain cases? I also drew attention to one of these matters at the regular meeting of the National Assembly, which concerns this particular item of the agenda. It's economic crime, it's the biggest financial fraud, it's extortion, it's money laundering and stuff like that. And why aren't things being processed at the State's Attorney's Office? I have taken the time to prepare myself well for every matter, and respectable colleagues and colleagues, those who speak, including the minister, that he has no authority to influence the work of the prosecution – that is not true. Why are we Members and Members? To protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. And what is the work of the state's attorneys, including the Attorney General? The powers and duties of the Attorney General are defined in Article 7 of the State Prosecutor's Act, which states, inter alia, that the Prosecutor must carry out legal, professionally and on time the State Prosecutor's Office and protect its reputation. And in the second paragraph, he said, "The Attorney General must act impartially in the performance of the State Prosecutor's Office, protect the constitutionality and legality, the principles of the rule of law and human rights and fundamental freedoms." And what is the work of Members and Members? If the U.S. Attorneys don't respect that, it's only right to point out that. And where is the most suitable place? Most likely in this hall or on competent working bodies. And what the Government has done, that even the state prosecutor or the prosecution has rewarded with an additional financial injection, is to mock what our Dr. Vinko Gorenak said in the introduction that we have in Slovenia a hundred thousand people of 9 prosecutors, while they have 2 in Austria and something else that I will not repeat these numbers. And when we talk about not having jurisdiction, as far as asking questions or getting involved in another branch of power, the prosecution is not an independent branch of power. It is only part of the executive branch of the Authority. At that time, I had already reminded the Minister of Article 177 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, where it clearly states that the Minister concerning the exercise of his powers or the answers to questions raised by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, the Government, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ombudsman, the President of the Republic and the public in connection with the work of the State Prosecutor may require the State Prosecutor to report to him on the criminal and other matters they deal with. And what does that mean? If we ask Members and Members a question, the Minister may request the State Prosecutor's Office to obtain the relevant information and to respond to us Members and Members. And what else does this article say — that the State Prosecutor’s Office must provide the Ministry with reports and data on the resolution of a particular case or type of case, except those which could harm the interests of the procedure, the confidentiality of the procedure and the privacy of persons. And the State Prosecutor's Office must report to the Ministry in such a way that a timely and appropriate response is possible, taking into account the limits set out in the preceding paragraph. The D.A. also has control over himself, including the D.A.'s office. I would like to draw your attention here again to the fact that, in the context of the supervisory appeal, the Minister may also take appropriate action. To return to my original sin, why matters in the prosecution do not count – what some Members and Members, including the coalitions, have found, is that obviously the organisation of work in the prosecution ranks is not appropriate. And that's what I've been dealing with, even in accordance with the law governing state prosecutorial matters. Ladies and gentlemen, until the Attorney-General has the power to order certain prosecutors to redistribute themselves directly, but to give written consent to each individual prosecutor, so long as we do not solve matters within a reasonable time frame and we do not provide a fair and legal state and effective legal protection for our citizens and citizens or for businesses, if you wish. And when it comes to criminal associations, it's a very complex matter, and that's what Mr Furlan himself has warned about on his mother's working body. You know that the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office is supposed to solve those most pressing matters, and I say: he needs support, he needs to be given adequate personnel if you have a serious intention to prosecute organised crime. This is what our citizens and citizens deserve. When I listened to the Attorney General at home, when he talked about the SDS politicising and so on, I would rely here on another statement he made, which is also possible for a larger analysis. In fact, how can it be that Attorney General Fischer is talking about the lustration that the opposition is supposed to be carrying out against the state authorities, and how can he say that the SDS is taking revenge for its own, watch out, legal defeats through politics? What does that mean? By this, he pointed to the solution of a particular case. Apparently, the Attorney-General already knows what the second-degree judgment will be in that case, but I will not speak because you have mentioned it many times today, and I will not mention individual cases. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine why the Slovenian Democratic Party requested this meeting, and it is sad that you did not support the conclusions we have proposed on the working body of the Slovenian Democratic Party. What is wrong, for example, with this first decision, which states that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has become aware of the situation in the field of the work of the Supreme Public Prosecutor and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office? The one who wanted to hear it on his mother's work body heard what the prosecution was dealing with, where the problems were. But you obviously didn't feel like it. And what is wrong with the 4th proposed decision, which states: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia condemns the functioning of the former State Security Service, which, until the end of the 1980s, unlawfully and secretly kidnapped and murdered domestic and foreign citizens." The SDV was a criminal organisation and you clearly support this criminal organisation, because I cannot say anything else, even in the light of the discussions that took place on the petition committee. And let me conclude with what you are in the introduction to this session, with your hypocrisy, not all that there will be no mistake, but those who have discussed that today's session is irrelevant and that there are so many and so many people at risk and so on. Yes, but where have you been, ladies and gentlemen, in adopting the 2014 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia? You took $5 million for the operational work of firefighters. And how did we get them back? By proposing that the Slovenian Democratic Party and the opposition return this money to the fire. And yesterday, the government adopted one so merciful decision that 317 thousand euros will be given to the firefighters. Don't joke! It is an intervention measure and the intervention law was urgently needed on Tuesday. Not today, not tomorrow – Tuesday. For three days, people had no resources, no food, no electricity, no water. Go to the field and see what that means. And instead of the President of the Government walking the field, working in the office, ensuring that the intervention law comes to the National Assembly at these tables, whether it has to be discussed for 42 hours or 50 hours. We're ready for this, and you're obviously not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Ficko's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The prosecution of serious forms of financial crime, of course, places an additional burden on the prosecution, and so is the case. Of course it's an emergency. As the current rush of potential candidates is great, you have also had a lot of influence on this trend by the proposed today's meeting when you made bank theft, Thai buyouts and so on during that period 2004-2008. Today and also on the committee then certain individuals in the prosecution are criticized and you take the right to assess their work. Politically, you are making an assault and pressure on the prosecution with the aim of discrediting individuals. The basic material is pear articles. It's like you said in kindergarten, "Grandma said, Grandma said," and then Mr. Gorenak could be "kadia sued, kadia sued". Of course, hard words were also made on the committee to make prosecutors work unlawfully, corruptly, that they are abuses, willfulness and so on. So I'm going to propose to stop this circus. The National Assembly should carry out its work, as far as legislation is concerned, and the Prosecutor's Office and the other authorities of the independent branch of government should carry out their work in a responsible manner. Even worse, this detection of crimes from the former SDV. Of course, they would do nothing but impose additional burden on the prosecution. Do we really think that the story of the former SDV is of interest to young people? No, they need a job and a solid salary, not to listen to what someone did in the '60s, '70s or '80s. The truth is, of course, that at the time, luckily, we all had a job, an apartment, a social standard, we had a guaranteed 20 million-dollar market. Although the former state was as indebted as it is today, 20 million people, not 2 million people. Some say that it all started in 1991, and some things are of course interesting to them back when there is a lot to dig through the archives. In 1991, some also took Tito's paintings from Parliament, promised another Switzerland, and now we have a "tempered state". It is also interesting how some become publicists, historians. First of all, you probably have to train in the authorities of the former country as a Kosovoer, then do as many crimes as you can, then you're already qualified for archival investigation, and become a popular publicist with appropriate inflows to the transaction account from interesting sources and so on. We're looking through the papers 40, 50 years ago, and on the other hand, we can't find those lost or stolen referendum signatures from a year ago. Maybe we'll find them in 50 years. By proposing that we end these political processes and accounting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u106	Thank you very much. As long as I'm here and as long as SDS is here, we'll never stop the murders, ever. If you're willing to defend a man for an act of murder at any time, then you're wrong about us doing it. In short, as long as necessary, we will note this when we have a large majority enough, but we will also be able to arrange something in this area ourselves. Come in. Don't insult Mr. Lejak because he's not here. He served his time, he's clean by law, and you have nothing to say to him. What he's doing today, he's doing for his money. Ask your government to provide professional researchers, as in the Czech Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin is next. After him, mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u108	In fact, I didn't mean to even discuss it, but more than the subject itself, I have been encouraged by some other stories that have nothing to do with the agenda and that is why I also thank, on behalf of our citizens in the municipalities of Postojna and Pivka, that they have put this important topic on the agenda today, because they are very happy to monitor it, because half of them do not yet have electricity in their houses, and this is a top topic that I think will solve their problems. In fact, it encouraged me, I have to say, Mrs Ramšak's debate, when she said that the President of the Government should take care of himself and sit in the office to save himself. I must say that I brought both the President of the Government and the Minister of Defence to Postojna on Sunday in order to agree on some urgent measures at operational level, which should be done by the municipal leadership, but it did not. Even more, the mayor didn't come to this meeting at all, nor did any of the vice-martials. That's how you get rid of things. Although we have reached the new crisis headquarters at this time, things are being resolved. I was alone yesterday and today I was there and I'm sorry that I'm here today because I could use a lot more if I were there. But sooner or later, everyone will be responsible for his or her actions and for his or her priorities. I have to say about this material that we got on the table, that I'm not surprised that there are no conclusions, because in my opinion it's just one of the chapters on the agenda that we need to unlock to make sure that we get not one, as Han said, but 10 bees to start exploring these very magnificent things. First, let me tell you why I think so. Firstly, the National Assembly shall examine each year on the committee responsible the report of the State Prosecutor's Office. As I know, he also addressed it for 2012 and also accepted it. Since then, what has been dramatic since our consideration? It's just that statistics are -- I'm talking about data, not innuendo, anonymouss and newspaper articles, because I don't read political pornography and I don't care. It has changed that some indicators have improved and I would not talk about it. The minister had already talked about this, and others had already talked about it on the committee, and things were going in the right direction. Trends are improving, and as a policy we just need to find that these trends are improving. This must be what the policy is interested in – that trends are going in the right direction, not that we are dealing with individual cases and that we are even referring to individual cases and so on. Again, we are faced with the great temptation of politics to deal with the individual case and then to generalize it. Again, we have problems with this problem, as I have said many times before, inductions in this House. We draw the individual case out and then generalise it, and because it is the Attorney General, it is very appropriate to say that it does not count. At this point, I'm not going to determine whether he's doing a good job or a bad state's attorney. I also think that we will soon have the opportunity to discuss this on the relevant committees when we receive these reports for 2013, but this link in the proposal itself, the material we have received, the request for this reference when it says: a proposal for a decision on the state of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, on the prosecution of the worst forms of economic financial crime and on the detection of suspects of crimes of the former SDV. And now I'm asking where the correlations are. Whether we want to make a correlation between the state's prosecution being in a correlation or even protecting some serious crimes of economic financial crime, there is an immediate second correlation that this financial crime is linked to the detection of suspects of crimes of the former SDV. It is true that the former Uda or her successor in the former country controlled all the import-export companies and more. It is true that many who were engaged in exports or imports, without their thirst, spoke for many years ago, could not reach the printer or do so. This is all true, but also in this service, and you know it, this sacramentally well knows that this service has also had some periods that have been a little brighter, especially in recent years. In 1990, 1991, the same service largely led a "slavery" fight with KOS, and set up some other things. And last but not least, let's be honest, even then her successor, where about the same people, VIS, were, to a large extent, helped us to get some things into Slovenia at the time of the arms embargo. So not all these workers were criminals trying to implement. They weren't. Not everyone, too, was now at Dr. Gorenak's interlocutor, the war profiteers. That's true. It's all true. So here I really don't see what the Attorney General, fourth in line, would be dealing with these acts. Let us leave this to historians and let historians deal with it. But when we talk about some of these and other crimes, you know, it's like that progressive dementia, when one remembers things 50 years ago, but doesn't remember what he did five minutes ago. That's exactly what it's like to go in sequences. For example, what is our mission — to explore a previous country or to do what is happening in the present country? Didn't we have some kidnapping of Greek citizens in Celovac? Who did this? There's nothing to talk about. Wasn't that a crime stunt? You may have noticed something about it, but there's no talking about it. But when we speak back about not misinterpreting what the fire does to prevent everyone from having the right to a grave? What legislation does this defend in Slovenia?Oh, my God! Indeed, my uncle, who was killed by the Germans because he was demobilized by the Italian army after the capitulation of Italy — his remains had not yet been found by his family. Or a little earlier. The second aunt was dragged all over Trieste by fascists who killed her in 1943 in Brkini. And then the family had a great deal of trouble finding her and bringing her remains. I mean, these stories can be listed by everyone in their family, and no, I'm asking you, we're going to save everything now, because we're never going to save everything. We'll never save you. Let us leave this to those who are actually dealing with it. That is why we have other institutions, but not that our Parliament is involved. As regards the Council of Europe resolution, let me put it this way. We have accepted it in this House. The resolution is actually an act that is the highest, and we do not have to implement individual conclusions, individual vows and swear every time, what and how we will do and so on. This resolution has been adopted here, and I think that we have done our work in Parliament. As far as the matter is concerned, of course, without what has been so much talk today — it is very doubtful when you are supported by the European People's Party or by this association. Mrs Jelusic has already mentioned that they also supported Mr Sanader. They also supported Berlusconi. They also propose Juncker as their president, who has also been convicted of corruption in Luxembourg. I wouldn't be too happy if the People's Party or the People's Party Association supported me. In fact, I'd feel like something's happening to me. These are all some arguments from this material. But I won't talk about anonyms, because I only have two terms for anonymouss: Disgusting and contempt. One who does not have the courage to sign a document is not worthy of consideration in this high house. This applies to all, including the working bodies, and kindly please, let's stop referring to anonyms, let's stop classifying these anonymities as parliamentary material. But if, as it is said, what he finds out is that it is no longer an anonymous person, but it is a work material to be signed by the person who checked that the anonymous person is holding it. Let him write: checked day of this and this, by this and this body, and this is now official material. In short, once again, this debate in this National Assembly is just one of the barren meetings without any conclusions, and it would really be better if we all go where people need us more, if not otherwise, maybe even someone in a narrow family, which has been in my area for at least one week without electricity, can't even take a bath, can't even cook, and even less warm up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u109	Thank you very much. If I understood you correctly, procedurally, Dr. Gorenak? No, no, no. As a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u110	Thank you very much. You taught me something new. I guess you're a good acquaintance. You know the state security system, so thank you for some news. In particular, I thank you for saying that she was involved in importing weapons for the purposes of Slovenia. So it's not Janša and then Janša is no longer a trader, but now SDV is a trader. Thanks for the explanation. Let me explain one little thing to you, the one before 1990. Before 1990, it will not have to say that the State Security Service worked for Slovenia — in some segments we can say that yes, we would not do wrong, but not in the main work. Who closed the four? The official notice of the Ljubljana Police Administration, the Republic Secretariat, was very clear. "Criminal police officers arrested Ljubljana this morning," it said. Then came Mr Milan Domadenik, then head of the Ljubljana Police Administration, who said: "No, they weren't." – My criminals didn't arrest anyone, that's what the State Security Service did. It is said that they did not act for any independence of Slovenia in the main work. There's something else you need to know in the important part. At the time of their independence, they went to about 300 in retirement. They're the ones who've been hunting the enemies inside, and they've got a nice pension today. One more thing. You obviously don't separate some things. Mr. Juncker has never been convicted of any corruption. And you're just making him feel good. Give him another 10 years in prison! Say that again, and then there'll be complete misinformation. Mr Juncker resigned as Prime Minister, as I know, because of the suspicion of corruption on the part of some of his officials. That was true, not that he was convicted of corruption. I don't know any document from the European People's Party to talk about support for Berlusconi. It is true, however, that the European People's Party – I think it was, if I am not mistaken, or if there was another meeting – then in Italy they declared support in this style. But there was no support. I don't know about the Sanader thing, but I'll ask them to teach me if there's anything. I doubt it was, but of course we can check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Now it is the turn of Joseph Jerovšek, and the Magi, after him. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I would be very happy if today there were no realistic grounds to say that our prosecution is still not effective enough to prosecute crimes, and that is the worst crimes. If that were true, then all our citizens would be happy. Because then what happened in our banks wouldn't have happened at all. We'd have some bad guys, some robbers from our banks, who would probably be on the trail where they put their money. They would have been confiscated long ago under the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin, and the state would not have been in such a disastrous situation, virtually before or before bankruptcy. Unfortunately, the facts are different. Unfortunately, this has not been effective in the past period, although I recognise the improvement in the last period. Even in the D.A.'s office, some of them got cold feet. It seems that some people should do as they should if, for a long time in our country, there is no political awareness that those who have robbed the country should be tolerated, allowed as the best managers to implement their plans and that the crimes will be obsolete. Such was the political position, and I believe that even the plan and tasks assigned to owning the property, that the former left-wing parties who had the power, even ordered it to some managers, with political partners in positions or in the background. We know much more about these bots these days or lately. Some things have come out, but they're protecting each other so incredibly. But for those who have done all this, made it possible, ordered, it is logical to protect themselves. It is not logical, however, that today's Members protect evil from the past. That doesn't make any sense. And here, colleagues and colleagues, we should cool off, Katharistically cool off, because otherwise our country will fall apart. I must say that I do not understand that you are not ready – colleague Kociper said when she performed on behalf of the parliamentary group: "Positive Slovenia as such does not want to deal with the past." Yeah, logically, they don't want to deal with what happened in the banks because they'd step into their own shadow of a client. They don't want to deal with it. It seems logical to me, but to distribute and show here that they do not want to deal with the past of this crime in banks, but it is highly unacceptable. The biggest government party should simply deal with this, but it is not capable of its own kind and they oppose this being tackled at the state level. Here's a case where a sociologist named Dr. Urban Vehovar said three or four years ago that what's happening in our banks is a crime. But now it looks like this crime won't have any culprits. Nobody feels responsible. Directors, when testifying on an investigative committee, didn't make any decisions. Yeah, who is it?Oh, my God! Then why did they have such wages? Why did they pay their million - dollar prizes if they did not decide if they were not responsible, if they did not accept any responsibility? Why don't they have so much empathy to say, well, I've sucked, I've puffed up the bank, and what I've got too much, I'll give it back? That would be if it was consistent with what they're testifying to. Just as it seems that under the current authority this crime in banks will not be prosecuted, even crimes from the past against humanity – Slovenia is the only one where the left sometimes admits crime but not a criminal. At least make it clear that history doesn't repeat itself as a farce, because it always repeats itself as a farce and in worse form. Look, I told the Attorney General here at the National Assembly once, when we discussed his report, why he couldn't do anything and apologized or interfered with the fact that in 1977 he sued people and prepared them for a conviction, in fact indirectly, those who had just established a memorial mark for the unjustly murdered people. I think that everyone would forgive him and have a significantly better mandate in this position than he has today. Now he's outrun by John the Resident. It's the exact same place. John Stanovnik went to worship 14 days ago, laying down flowers, not for his own sin, to repent on behalf of an option that he had led for many years. But I was surprised that others did not join him at the Memorial. Will everyone wait until they're 91 to make it? They're not all gonna wait. I hope that the Attorney-General will also come to that murder site, because I believe that he was a zealous young man and believed that those guilty were justly liquidated without a trial, and now Mr Stannik has made this clear. It was a crime and such a crime is not old enough, but I am not for those who are guilty to sit down, but they should be condemned and pardoned the next day. We can give them this mercy with the Abolithic. Now I really expect him to do this symbolic gesture so that he too will follow this path. Earlier, a colleague of Chehovin said, "What legislation protects against the right to grave?" That was a hell of a move. He thus equated the sins of fascism with the sins of fascism. But we probably won't even out in crime and justify the crime of any totalitarian system. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeated many times: if you cannot empathize that when you vote in Parliament, you recognise the right to grave, this civilisational value, or if you want us all to call an anti-antigon. This is a millennium of civil value, including the primitive nations, the nomadic nations. The Slovenian authorities, and this coalition cannot do this, and by voting it casts this value down smoothly. I think you're going to get a lot of hard inside your own soul over this kind of vote. If you have a conscience, one day you'll grow weary, even if you're in the 91st year, it won't be pleasant to get there. Be prepared to withdraw these non-civilisational votes, to refrain from doing so, and in this way we will also allow our prosecution to solve these civilisations and the worst crimes of economic crime. Otherwise, if we look at how they are willing to walk civilisation standards, then, of course, prosecutors and justice are not normal. And then, anyway, the Members are all on average. Prevent us from being general and [[Incomprehensible]] guilty, step on a path that allows the prosecution to be more effective as well, and we will quickly get out of the troubles that afflict us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Let's do it one step at a time, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would expect you to remind Mr Jerovsk that he was disrespectful to 91-year-old Mr. Janez Stanovnik. And I would ask you to review the magnetograms of the previous session, at which, not the first time, Mr Bevk Jožef Jerovšek, Mr Bevk, and to explain to others how the act of laying flowers in Lajša was not the first act by which the Resident pointed out that they had been killed in Lajša killed unjustly. I think you heard that, too, because if I'm not mistaken, it was you who ran the meeting at the time. I'm sorry if you didn't run the session. Mr Jerovšek has now repeated this at least three times, in relation to the Lajša and 91-year-old Mr Stanovnik. But Mr Stanovnik also reported on the news at the time, in Dnevnik, that the organization's leadership soon after that event found that it was an unfair execution, a murder, because they were wrongly convicted of being guilty of treason, that members of the party school were killed, and Mr Sam Bevk also said exactly when, at which occasion the public was also informed. I'm sorry I don't remember that exactly. However, Madam Vice-President, I ask you procedurally to take into account what I have just said. I will not oblige you to order a break to find this in the magnetogram, but to give procedural warning that Mr Jerovšek insists on some claims that he has been warned to be wrong. I will not now use the word that should be used in this place because it does so knowingly because it does so on purpose. But I expect that this intervention of mine has now warned that in the future Mr Jerovšek will no longer deal with such misinformation because, on the basis of them and from them, he is making a number of other accusations that are unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Just a moment, Mr. Jerovšek. Otherwise, I see that Mr Jerovšek himself will explain what this is all about. I did not see this debate as you did, but I am reminding you that you cannot bind me to anything, at least to disregard the rules of procedure, because for reasons such as yours, the meeting of the National Assembly does not stop by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I think that, for her propaganda, the Rules of Procedure have been misused by my colleague, Potret, and my words have been misinterpreted. Even in this debate, I have said that Mr Fisher has missed out on being the first to worship there and also admit his mistake of judging those who have bowed down from the ranks of the left. And Mrs Potter, I have repeatedly said here that I welcome this move by Mr Resident, who has made a gesture. I'm sorry the others didn't join him. I don't know if you're saying hello. I don't know that. On Twitter, former Ambassador Zareza, an actor, commended me for being the only one to praise. While I have also received criticism from this field of ours, but I am such a civil gesture that is decent, which is expected, I welcome no matter who it comes from, and condemn every crime on either side. Mrs Potrata, for your propaganda, do not abuse me, who is the only one who is able to define myself at least as such. Except for Bevek, who said that he had mentioned this once before, I did not see anyone to identify myself on these matters. I don't think I said anything wrong. I called on others to come along his way and to grant the right to graves – Mr Stanovnik acknowledged it in some way and also admitted that the party was doing terribly wrong. Not only did she then kill, but she condemned those who went to worship. They were closed. And you probably approve. Or say it! I also condemn the way the party did in the previous system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We will end this debate between the Mags. The spending and Mr Jerovsk with procedural proposals, and we will not even find out who triggered this debate. But he's got magic. They are now wasting their word on the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek mentioned the event in Lajša that he is only 91 years old, and my intervention is related to the fact that Mr Stanovnik did not do it only at 91 years old, but before. But the hope that Mr Jerovšek would see this as a different information is one way or another empty. Now to the agenda and to what has been repeatedly challenged. After the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, each Member and Member shall vote in accordance with their conscience. It is therefore a violation of this freedom of justice when someone calls on someone to be responsible for the vote, for decisions as they have been made. No one has this right because freedom of conscience is freedom of conscience and freedom of decision, and you take it. Now he's calling for an extraordinary session and a decision. What has personally prevented me from supporting any of these proposed conclusions? This is a methodological problem which I perceive in this request for an extraordinary meeting, as the item on the agenda is addressed to the Proposal for a Decision concerning the situation in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office concerning the prosecution of the worst forms of economic financial crime and the detection of suspects of crimes of the former SDV. With this methodological problem, I will not rely on the very comprehensive opinion of the Government, which answers me the fundamental questions that a person can ask himself about whether he wants to know what the state of affairs is in the prosecution. Nor will I rely on the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, because much has been said about this opinion, but I want to say where the problem is. The Committee, the Working Body is entrusted with some kind of supervisory function over the work of the Prosecutor's Office by having it examined every year's report on the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. And I expected this decision to deal with what could possibly be detected with the 2012 report because the 2013 report on the part of the prosecution had not yet been addressed by the National Assembly. However, when considering the 2012 report, I did not see that there was something about it that would suggest that the report should be considered at the plenary session of the National Assembly, which could also be done. But now let's see what the proponents have said – that this decision regarding the prosecution's work will only be related to two cases, namely the prosecution of the worst forms of economic financial crime and the detection of suspects of crimes of the former SDV. We don't find much written about anything. I looked, say, after this request, 25 pages of text. If we consider the introduction and if we take away one side of the proposed conclusions and another side of the proposed conclusions, there is very little to do with the persecution of the worst forms of economic financial crime. No, but then some special cases are listed. A case involving a mistake committed in connection with a suspected crime of sexual assault on a child, and then false detention, as well as those stories we know about the Koro girl. On economic crime, the persecution of the worst forms of economic financial crime is just something, but not much, one paragraph, and then another short paragraph on SDV, that's all. I cannot in any case draw the conclusion offered by the first proposed decision from such material, namely that I have become aware of the situation in the field of the work of the Attorney General's Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. For what I read in this material is mainly the occupation with the person of the Attorney General, from his appointment forward and everything else. There has already been a lot of talk about anonymists and others, so that this is a major methodological problem of this requirement and not of this other decision in this regard can be supported. Now to what has also been discussed, European civilisation standards and the resolution on solidarity with victims of totalitarianism. It is misleading, when they say that we have not done anything in our national assembly, in relation to this resolution. Let me say that the 12 countries in the European Union have not even been informed about the resolution that three countries, Lithuania, Estonia and Bulgaria, have made only some decisions regarding August 23rd. The Slovenian Parliament has adopted a declaration and the German Bundestag – but you are very eager to refer to Germany as to how to follow it – only the German Human Rights and Humanitarian Aid Committee has come to know, but has not accepted anything further. And now I remind you again that it would be good for those who speak so badly, how we will grow up in our conscience, and I do not know what else, to read what the Slovenian Parliament has adopted in the declaration and how it has expressed everything and what it has accepted in this regard. By the way, 6,000,875 people were recognized as victims of post-war illegal death. 32 thousand and several others were recognized as their own and former political prisoner with the right to compensation. That we have a special commission dealing with the detection of hidden graves, that procedures for the establishment of a monument to all victims are ongoing, is also known, and that over 870 million compensations have been awarded to denationalising beneficiaries. You know, if someone says that we don't care about what happened to people in the past, then it's really a rejection lie, and it's not the only thing that some people keep saying, how nothing was done, and how we're going to growl. This is left to every individual to whom he sends. I know that I regret all the bad things that have happened, but I do not see the possibility that in such debates and in such prepared sessions we would have any chance of getting ourselves together. But the right actions were done. But it's just that some people who work at the reconciliation institute don't recognize them. Just remember how disgusting they were talking about the Mass on Stari Gora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u119	Thank you. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor and Mr Jože Tanko is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Mr Fisher and his associates, and especially him, are suffering from a bad job for a number of reasons that we have listed. I will not repeat the numbers referred to by my colleague Gorenak, i.e. the comparison between the number of prosecutors and the number of cases dealt with by our prosecutors, with some other countries. Finally, these comparisons say something, and we cannot lie to each other forever that everything works if it doesn't really work. Similarly, in the area of justice, judges, similar in the field of prosecution, and what everyone would expect is that organizations within themselves will ask themselves what is wrong, that they are not active enough or productive enough. I do not agree that it is bad legislation, because it has already been said that they have succeeded in the process of processing our former colleague Mr Friend to process everything in half a year. In six months he was convicted at all levels and went to prison nicely, which he has now served, I think, for several years. In short, if we have legislation and we know that things can be done, we cannot agree that things are falling apart. We know that in the past we have also had many skeletons from drawers, including cases left in drawers, even some very well-known prosecutor, where things are obsolete, or a judge and so on. Therefore, it seems good to me that we are talking about these things in the hope that something will happen within the prosecutor's organisation, which is the first to make changes. We can't, we can only point to some things. I do not think that Mr Fisher is fit for what he is doing and that he is doing even harm to the prosecution's organisation. We wrote a few things. Let me just mention this appointment of Mr Skrlec as Secretary of State. Indeed, we know that former Justice Minister Aleš Zalar, on a proposal from State Prosecutor Zvonk Fischer, appointed Boštjan Škrlec, his former Justice Secretary, to the post of Director General of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, before his departure. We did not have this function before, under the previous law, but it was determined by a new law, in which Mr Škrlec, as State Secretary, was involved. The government appointed him as CEO. The next government then abolished this because the appointment decision was supposed to be illegal. Then the thing got out, sued, et cetera. Today we have before us the public question of Member Vinko Gorenak, who was sent by Mr Klemenčič when we asked him what happened to this appointment, and Mr Klemenčič says: "This matter was brought before the Commission in June 2012, several months before Mr Gorenak submitted his application. At the beginning of 2013, the Senate of the Commission adopted a draft finding on a specific case and, since there was a suspicion of corruption and a conflict of interest, it provided them in accordance with the law for clarification to the persons concerned. The former Justice Minister, Aleš Zalar, at the same time making his statements, opened a legal dispute against the Commission's proceedings and proposed the issue of a provisional order. In January 2014, the Supreme Court, after several decisions and annulments of the decision of the first stage and to the great surprise of the Commission, issued a provisional order prohibiting or suspending the public publication of the findings of the Commission to a legal decision on a legal dispute initiated in a particular case." So, your anti-corruption commission, which you have a full mouth when it comes to it, has said that this appointment was illegal, that there is a suspicion of corruption and a conflict of interest, and it must not be published because the Supreme Court has stopped the matter because it cannot be discussed. Nevertheless, Mr Fisher knows about this, and if I wanted to work in favour of the rule of law, I would no longer have Mr Skrlec in this position. Plus, some of you have an anonymous problem. Many anonymous people have found things to be very real. It seems more terrifying to me that people have to write this anonymity because they are afraid to say it publicly, or someone who has already said something has been silenced, replaced, bullied and so on, and then decided to write it anonymously. Too bad we have to solve things by anonymous means instead of solving them the way they do. As said in Fishergate, the first anonymous, financial investigation into John Jansa holds. There was another message. That's also the thing about Mr. Schrlec. He wrote to Mr. Juret Brack on POP TV. I don't know if it's true or not. That's what appeared in the anonymity. And at least what you would expect from Mr. Fisher is to check it out. Now I will read this to you: "Yor, thank you and once again all congratulations on the series of phenomenal contributions," – only if you think this is the appropriate communication of the director in the prosecution with the journalist. "Yur, thank you and once again all congratulations on a series of phenomenal contributions. You were great. Here, in the annex promised yesterday," – new documents. "You can make sure that my information has an official basis. So you can go on and on and on and on. I'm sending you a draft document, but it won't change..." – may be a document of a financial investigation, most likely because of this – "... in fact, any article or law will be cited in any other way. General..." – Mr Fisher – "... last month, in its initiative, specialists have been very specifically ordered to act, and Hari Furlan, the chief of the specialized prosecutor, has been practically copied after the content. Please treat the document with caution, do not show it or publish it because it is very sensitive. The affected and the opposition can abuse it by setting up a mega-investigation group of all state institutions for a few euros, but they do not deal with Taiwanese banks and so on. I'll let you know when it's time for phase two and try to give you a head start on information. Note that it is worth the comment to ask our circle from the university, Dobovška, Luka and others, and Pirnata, Klemenčič and later Aleša," – Zalarja. "While those politicians who are officially and otherwise aware that they are doing well, but not all the details, you know more about this, will refrain from commenting. At least I hope they don't show genuine joy." Listen, this is absurd to me, and at least what you would expect from Mr Fischer is to check it out, as he checked on the lady journalist who was the first to be investigated by Minister Jakic in the yard. There was just such a glass action, the prosecution was investigating where the data came from, and I don't know if they went to see if they had any financial investigation documents against Janez Janša. But of course they went to see where Mr Kaloh got it, but most of you Members probably got it in an e-mail like I did, so it wasn't a secret document. Many of us received Fishergate 1, Fishergate 2, and there was also this information. If the prosecution is doing great in the same case, review of this journalist, review of that reporter, review of Mr Kaloh. For me, it's a normal job for the prosecution. Otherwise, it's not normal to look at just one and not the other. Next thing you know, the organization of a specialized prosecutor's office. I have already said that Mr Zalar changed the law, disbanded the special group led by Mrs Barbara Brezigar, who was also the prosecutor of Kozina, and then began the story with Kordez and with Mercury to explore, including Mrs Žgajnar and others. Minister Zalar – Mr Brulc said there has been no pressure on the prosecutors so far, on the Attorney General. Remember the pressures that Minister Zalar put on Mrs Brezigar. They were sitting in the office at Mr. Pahor's, the then Prime Minister, when he tried to calm things down and saw things go too far. And then Mr Zalar, because otherwise he couldn't do it, changed the law so that he could dissolve this special group, which was doing well, that he set up a specialized prosecutor's office that wasn't perfected until last year, because people thought it was stupid to go into something that they had immediately made a selection of, who would be able to go inside and so on. Since then, the specialized prosecutor's office has not worked as well as it should. However, we have Chief State Prosecutor Dragica Kotnik, District Attorney Blanko Žgajnar, District Attorney Matthew Gonchin. Against all three of them, Mr Fisher has exercised extraordinary control. Are they good prosecutors now in a specialised group, or are they bad? In his 2012 report, Mr Fischer wrote that the special group was working well, great, then led by Mrs Žgajnar, and then ordered extraordinary supervision. At the time, we wondered whether it was an extraordinary control because Mrs Jankovic was in charge of the proceedings against Mr Jankovic. Of course, we did not get any answers and it was said that there was no way. I filed a complaint against Mr Jankovic in June or July 2011, and the tax administration filed an appeal in January 2012. Today, in 2014 and two years after that, nothing happened – no financial investigation, no proceedings, no lawsuits in court, nothing. Mr Jankovic, despite the millions he owes, is still the mayor of Ljubljana, and nothing happens to him. Look, the D.A. doesn't do well for me. If they failed in two years to process some of the cases that had already been proved — what the tax did, all is supported by evidence. Mr Fischer has taken control of Mrs Žgajnar, Mrs Gonchin, but he has not found him or Mr Hari Furlan there only minimal errors, although we know that Mr Harij Furlan has made a serious mistake regarding Mrs Hilda Tobut and we will now pay her 16 000 euros because she has been illegally detained. That's quite a mistake for me. Tell Mr. Harry Furlan to pay for it. Why do we all have to pay for this? Not to mention that Mr Harij Furlan was appointed Chief of the Special Prosecutor's Office on 7 February 2012 at the proposal of Mr Fischer, 13. Two, so six days after that, he was dismissed as head of the National Investigation Office. Did he get two wages for that time? Was he in two jobs at once? This is Mr. Fisher's very bad work. I mentioned the specialized prosecutor's office. They continue to face problems, they do not have enough people – of course not because they have already cancelled calls for the appointment of people to the specialized prosecutor’s office several times. What are we reading today? The government allocated a million 700 to the prosecution yesterday from the current budget reserve, 3 million to increase the number of criminalists at the Ministry of the Interior – from a reserve dedicated to the removal of greed and so on. For the removal of the acorn and this we have given 315 thousand euros, and here we will now give 4 million 700 of the reserves that are earmarked for some other purpose. If you knew the D.A. was fed up and needed money, you would have guaranteed it in the budget, not in the reserves that are earmarked for [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc could have a good minute to discuss this. He's not here right now. That's why I give the floor to Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman. From the 10th hour of the morning and the 3rd day, we are discussing not the removal of the consequences of the natural disaster in our country, but the hundreds of stories, the affairs, the mistakes of the people who propose, this is the SDS party, are not welcome and so on. For the conclusions proposed, I have already said in the opening presentation that they are not only bouquets collected from different maps, archival maps, articles and other contributions to the SDS, but also, in the view of the Legislative and Legal Services, often exceed the powers vested in the National Assembly in its field. The legislative and legal service has very comprehensively justified why the decisions relating to the State Prosecutor's Office are an overriding of jurisdiction, why the applicant wishes to intervene through them in this way in some way that he is not able to do so and so on. The fact that the proposer wishes to identify the suspicion of criminal services through the National Assembly, to note that someone has acted corruptly or is responsible for certain matters is something that can only be thought of by the proposer. The legislative and legal service has explained well that in only one case the National Assembly can identify the suspicions of criminal services, that is, on the basis of a parliamentary investigation carried out. Next. For many of the conclusions, the Legislative and Legal Service has found that they are either incomplete or unnecessary. It is not necessary for the National Assembly to find out that it has become aware of the situation in the State Prosecutor's Office. The state of the State Prosecutor's Office shall be informed on the basis of the examination of the annual report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and this has already been done. The last annual report has already been considered in this National Assembly. Furthermore, the findings – the National Assembly’s expert service found that even when the budget was being considered, it was not necessary. It is unnecessary and ridiculous that after 8 hours of discussion or three times after 5 hours of debate on working bodies, we should decide that the National Assembly has become aware. Of course it is. Next. Decisions impose certain powers with regard to the allocation of personnel and so on, which go beyond the powers of the National Assembly and derive from other laws, such as the State Prosecutor's Office Act. Next. Decisions impose certain tasks on the State authorities, and those tasks for which the State authorities are legally competent and must carry out them under the law within the framework of their respective powers, and their competence under the law is also this, I recall from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that they decide when circumstances are given to serve certain of their powers. And then a little bit more in this book about closing archives, even though we all know we're actually opening them up more, even in personal data. And at the end of the bouquet there are other tricks, conclusions to which coalition Members should be caught and not accused of all the crimes committed in the field of the operation of the secret services and all the victims that were created on that basis. I would say once again that in Positive Slovenia and I personally deeply regret everything that has been unlawfully done in the past and all the victims of such or other regimes, if and when they exist. However, we believe that all victims of crimes — not only victims of State secret services crimes, including other crimes — are worthy of being investigated by the law enforcement agencies, as is later said by the police, as well as by the prosecution, and by the court in charge, and that every other victim of a crime, the one who has been murdered, the mother, the sister, the wife or anyone else, deserves to be investigated. And in our legislation, there are exactly the criteria and order by which matters are dealt with. It is therefore unacceptable from this point of view that a political party should state which crimes must now be dealt with as a priority by the State Prosecutor's Office. All crimes are horrendous and all must be dealt with seriously. So in the work relating to the State's Attorney's Office, you don't want this debate to go unpunished as one defeat of Dr. Bell Fisher. Mr. Zvonko Fischer is not pleased with the proposal. We have found this in this mandate so many times that we really repeat ourselves very much. I would just like to recall that Mr Fisher was appointed in 2010 in an official procedure for the appointment of a new state's attorney, two candidates, Mr Zvonko Fischer and Mr Alexander von Thorn Taxis, applied for this procedure. The latter was also found, on the basis of administrative procedure, to have submitted its application too late and also to have submitted a complaint to the Administrative Court too late and therefore rejected by the Administrative Court. It was in this procedure that a candidate who was elected – someone who was considered a top-level lawyer for more than 15 years to serve as the Attorney-General, who was also a constitutional supreme judge and so on, and someone for whom one of the types on the side of the applicants, former Prosecutor-General Drobnič, said he was an excellent candidate. What does this candidate have to do with anything? In particular, there are specific affairs, false reactions here and there, and so on, but of course also the generally poor functioning of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. I think that the data available to the proponents are not only outdated, but also very deliberately summarised. Most of the data comes from 2010 or even in 2006, and we can all see together, including the citizens, that things in justice generally move better. That's obvious. Of course, the situation is still not ideal, it is not in many areas, but things are changing for the better. The gentlemen on the left say that nothing has changed in the field of convictions. The conviction is, of course, the final act, the final act in which the prosecutors were involved. Let me once again say that, in recent times, Mr Kordez, Mrs Butler, Mr Saidar, Mr Zidar, Mr Crnigoj, Mr Friend, Mr Popovic, Mr Rupar, Mr Gorše at the first stage, Mr Bavčar at the first stage, Mr Šrot at the first stage, Mr Franz Kangler at the first stage and, of course, two Prime Ministers. Of course, one who is the proposer is particularly painful and therefore all means of discrediting the area in which it is regulated should be used. At the time of his conviction, Mr Janša said that he would defend himself not only by legal means, which is correct, but also by all political means. And from someone who has someone as the president of a party who does not go to court who cannot be served with judicial writings, who does not attend court hearings and who does not respect the judgments of the Slovenian court and also challenges them on a legal basis – we cannot expect such a party to tell us that there is nothing going on in the field of prosecution, the work of the prosecution and justice at all. The Public Prosecutor's Office has also increased its performance in numbers, as I have already said in the presentation, but the figures speak of 20% more convictions than in 2012, an increase in the number of complaints by 3%, and the number of complaints has increased and so on. Of course, there are still many problems, and this government is actively solving these problems. The problems posed by prosecutors are, in particular, problems with excessive and over-comprehensive legislation, which is under-responsible by this National Assembly, and problems with personnel and material resources. They're both working it out. In his report, for example, the prosecution responded to a long - term statement on this side, not to confiscate the property of illegal origin, and it gave a fine explanation that it is the law, and this is the law of the Member — the laws of the Member States are often indeed a problem — written in such a way that it is very difficult to enforce it. The reverse burden of proof has proved in practice that no evidence burden has been reversed at all and is also another set of procedural problems. In this House, this government has already completed the first reading of this law, which solves this problem. In addition, the Government has found, as has been said several times before, the necessary funds have proved necessary both for reinforcements in the human resources sense and for bridging material problems after meeting with the gentlemen of the judiciary, in particular from the Prosecutor's Office. In short, we are doing everything and showing a serious intention to help the state's prosecution to continue to promote these positive trends that have recently been indicated. In this regard, I should also remind you that our Prime Minister, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, at the meeting with the President of the Republic, Mr Pahor, has called on all the Presidents of the parties to put an end to the criticism of these institutions in the future as a result of increasing confidence in the functioning of the judiciary and other bodies of control, in order to establish a society of one respectable relationship, thereby increasing the role of the rule of law in this area. Mr President, who is today proposing, rejected this proposal. That he was serious, he also made a comment on the final judgment in the case of Patrio, when he once again lamented that Murgle had no reach in the matter. But if I go back a little bit further to the conditions for the prosecution's work – over-the-top legislation. I repeatedly warn: not only people who need to understand what laws say and what their purpose is, but also users of laws, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, lawyers can no longer respect this pace of legislation that has been adopted in recent years. New and new major changes to the most important procedural and material laws. Sometimes, I said on a committee, a judge or a prosecutor or an attorney had in mind the key articles of his law, and this is how he knew them. [[Finger-toed clap]] used, but today, every time he sees an article, he has to take another book with him to understand it if it is not possible to make another change in 14 days. Positive Slovenia is not responsible for such legislation because we are only weak here for two years, but it is in our interest and our desire that this matter turn around. Therefore, in the coalition treaty on justice, there are not many legislative changes, but there is an emphasis on implementation, and in the last year, what is a positive Slovenia in the government, the emphasis was on the fact that the legislation incorporated those changes that were urgent, such as the PDO or the Real Law Code, and those to which the judiciary or the Prosecutor's Office called, are said to be those for whom the profession and the users themselves have found that they are urgently needed, and that is the purpose under the new coalition contract. In the material, which, as it is said, is again a bit of an anonymous and newspaper article – what I think about anonyms, I have already said many times – then instead of a general debate on the state of the prosecution, there is again a bunch of specific cases, problems with these cases and so on, Mr Škrlec, his appointment, and then the discreditation of one of the prosecutors and so on, and some old cases, Mr Fojkar, if you have how long this process has lasted and so on, as we have talked about many times. In order to balance, there is no speech anywhere about Mr Marolt, who has always been miraculously appointed without the right decisions of the government to the prosecution or the defence posts. Then nothing about Mrs. Squire's mistakes. Mrs. Jeraj used to talk about her, if we remember. She was responsible for this error regarding the Balkan warrior, that the detention was not prolonged when we are talking about shining personnel. Otherwise, I think it was a highly appreciated staff of former Chief State Prosecutor Mrs Brezigar. Nor is Mrs Branka Hrastar mentioned, who, in the sense that she does not perform her prosecutorial functions properly, even in the legal professions and now has a legal indictment in this regard already in court. In short, I'm not interested in your left and right again, but it's unfair and controversial to display things so unilaterally. Errors happen on the one hand and on the other, people are confusing on the one hand and on the other, and as everywhere in life, also in the prosecution are good and bad, excellent, best, bad, average. And with such a unilateral display of things, you don't do anyone any favors, you just give people the feeling that everything is wrong in this country and there is no solution. And then when the President of the Government finds the means to allocate them to the better work of the state prosecutor's office, it's wrong again, and he should give them for the stomach, and to solve the problems that she's going to give them anyway, but no, not by giving the resources to make the prosecution work better, it's not right. Information leak. Sometimes leaking information hurts, sometimes you don't. I think leaking information is an extremely big problem. Not only is it unfair to those who are at an early stage of the procedure or who are purely guilty of media exposure, but it is also because it harms the interests of the investigation. And leaking information is something that's been a problem of this society for a long time. That is why it seems to me that, on the basis of Minister Jakić's complaint, the prosecution and the police are now doing something that the police and the prosecution should be doing in any case when, in the earliest stage of the procedure, even when there is no complaint, they operate on the names of some people. But it's the easiest form of discredit to incriminate someone and then wait for his name to be covered in the media. And then when the verdict of innocence comes, man's fate is sealed, his career is ruined, and so on. By the way, Mrs Jeraj, earlier you were told that Mr Jankovic, whom I dislike to point out here, was convicted of having proved that he had taxed millions. Although I know that your party president has been convicted in the first degree, I do not know for Mr Jankovic that he would have ever been convicted. I think he has one open procedure based on that house investigation, where there hasn't been an official complaint for a year and a half, but I don't know if he'd be convicted in any proceedings, and I'd ask you to keep an eye on such things. To speak in the National Assembly about people as if they were convicted, even though it is Mr Jankovic, whom you think you can say anything about, seems extremely unfair to me. Finally, I would conclude that in this national assembly, it has been shown several times that some may have even missed their profession a little and that they would like to pursue criminals in their lives, to do the work of prosecutors, judges, to judge and so on. I say it's never too late. We have colleges that you can visit at a mature age or complete your studies for a judge – law school, judicial exam, 2, 3 years of experience, then some time in court and some time until election to office, and then you will be able to judge. Thus, on the basis of some such allegations, to judge people, to hide under the cover of their criminal immunity – I will say this again and again that it seems unfair to me. And when you open up such a darkness and then we've been discussing it for three days and so many hours now, you're only introducing extra hatred and further resentment into this nation. And you really feel that in all areas everything is wrong, that there are criminals everywhere, that everyone is corrupt, and that one way or the other, we can just shut this rat down. So I ask you to leave history to historians, archives to the archivists, and leave the crimes to those who agree to do so. Our party and our option have the most serious intention of handling these matters, particularly through corruption, particularly through banking corruption. The necessary legislative amendments have been adopted. The grounds allowing data to be submitted, that bankers must participate and so on, exist. Investigations are ongoing, everything is happening, only unlike you we want this to happen on the legal path, through the courts, by conviction, by legal means and so on. And I ask that you also respect this and that you let us, instead of wasting time with the crimes of years and years ago, do together something good where we need to – now in a natural disaster, then in the start of the economy, then in the necessary changes regarding the environment and everything that awaits us, about education and so on. Until then, it's obvious that there's still a few meetings like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u123	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Now after this performance by my colleague Kociper, when some moral education has been given to members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I, Mr President, would only ask her to speak on their behalf and for them and to take care of her things, not for ours. On a few things that definitely don't hold, I have to warn you, and that's the key problem with that. She said that the Legislative and Legal Service had found that many conclusions were unnecessary. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, there is not one such statement as Mrs Kociper spoke about. There's no such statement in there. The legislative and legal service has only found that some of our proposals can be conclusions, others could be declarations, recommendations or resolutions. That's what the Legal and Legal Service found out. We've taken this into account and made it right. And let us not allow ourselves, Mr President, that anyone on an unbased basis should be made aware that we have done something that they do not. Secondly, remember that at least five members of Positive Slovenia were also in their previous term or in their previous term in the National Assembly and adopted laws. So it's not a whole new client and they didn't come here completely without history. At least five Members and Members of Parliament are here, who have participated in the adoption of all the legislation and also have their own problems. And there's something else about enforcement. The government signed with the judiciary, with the President of the Supreme Court, a commitment to settle the case in the second stage within three months. What happens when these matters do not take place within three months? And we're talking about the legal situation, exactly the legal situation, and let's say the officials who are being destroyed by their careers, and the judgment is not definitively pronounced and it's not legal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u125	Mr Tanko, you must not forget the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u126	I haven't forgotten anything. Now I am just asking whether, even in this case, we will be forced to request an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in order to establish a commitment between the Government and the judiciary to discuss and set those deadlines. I suggest that you limit yourself to these things and that you do your best to try, if you have that power, to influence and regulate them. In short, I propose, Mr President, that those Members who do not speak on the basis of facts or even embody, as was the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, note this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u127	Thank you. You have to understand that I actually have no insight into all the documentation so that I can warn you whether it's accurate indications or not. However, it would be more correct, Mr Tanko, if we would continue to apply for the debate, because the time set for the debate will not run away from these assumptions, given that the Government still has the opportunity to speak and Dr Vinko Gorenak, and that part of the procedural proposal could actually be put to the debate. This would be correct and also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Kociper, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u128	I'd like to ask procedurally, too. I would immediately like to ask Mr Tank to respect the Rules of Procedure and to use it procedurally in the sense that it is being used procedurally, because he has now used it to debate or to replicate my debate where he has troubled me if I am a liar or how a person would take it, to quote the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service. Now I can't help but procedurally warn them that I didn't abuse them. In fact, both under the second point and under the third point, the Legal and Legal Service is saying exactly what I was talking about. The fact that there are serious suspicions that there has been abuse and so forth by the Attorney General of the State, in these conclusions, the ZPS said, is a substance which has the nature of the finding and cannot be introduced into a decision on the 112th and 137th Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or in a recommendation, but can only be ascertained through the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation. This is a violation of jurisdiction. With regard to the proposal, we continue to believe that the text of the decision is not clear, as it is not clear exactly what legal measures are meant – vaguely. We also point out that the authorities responsible for acting in certain types of cases are obliged to act under the law and so on, the whole paragraph on page 3 is unnecessary. And then on page 3 at the end: in this sense, the text of the proposed decision is a flawed – a flawed conclusion. I have drawn attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that your conclusions in excess of the powers of the National Assembly are vague, unnecessary and lacking. I think I've confirmed all this again. That you don't like my way of talking, but you've told me many times. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u129	Mrs Kociper, I must remind you, too, that you have forgotten the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u130	No, no, I said it at the outset, the President – to ask that Mr Tanko respects the procedural proposal. You warned him, I was very careful, after two minutes 44 seconds, and me after two minutes, so let's have the same vats for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u131	Well, yes, in seconds we will measure these vats, but really please – you will have the opportunity, you will certainly have the opportunity to debate, because the time set for the debate is still in such quantity that it will not be spent either in the next two debaters. Procedural proposals that are not – I will just have to take your word. Do you have a procedural proposal or will you wait for the time allocation?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u132	I'll take my chances. You'll just take the floor if it's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u133	You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u134	Mr President, look, Mrs Kociper has read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the text of the request, but has not said that we have tabled amendments to the proposals for conclusions that have rectified this matter. And the Legislative and Legal Service did not write an opinion on the amendments that we tabled, but they were rejected, although they were in line with what the Legislative and Legal Service wrote. And to report to the Members that the opinion is bad – then we can also tell the government a lot. What the Legislative and Legal Service writes on a proposal from the Government is also being remedied by amendments. The technology is exactly the same. And I don't know what bothers Mrs Kociper and Positive Slovenia when we tabled amendments to the legislative opinion to remedy the shortcomings recorded here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u135	Mr. Tanko, the same warning applies as before. This is not a procedural proposal and there is no point in discussing it in this way, because the real time is still available below.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u136	Mr President, the point is that the public knows what is going on in the National Assembly, and obviously [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u137	But keep it in line with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u138	It will be with the Rules of Procedure, and I therefore suggest that you alert the debaters who are discussing in such a way that they are misleading the public to adhere to what has actually been remedied by the amendments. Please remind them to take this into account in these discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u139	Okay, I hope that this moment we have taken advantage of sufficient opportunities for procedural proposals that were not procedural proposals. I give the floor to the Government, which is Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Several things were raised in the debate. I'll start with the numbers first. Although today's topic is the prosecution's, I'm going to say a sentence or two about a commitment that this government has signed with the judiciary. More than once, it has been said that it has been signed that matters in the second stage will be resolved within three months. Let me tell you exactly what it says in the covenant or exactly what it says. For it says what it should be like on Day 1. 6. 2014 target times for the resolution of individual types of matters. But the talk is about average rescue times. And we all know how the average of the accounts involves simpler and more complex matters. So much for an explanation. The average time for individual types of cases on the 1st June of this year is discussed. Now to the D.A.'s office and the numbers. In the Republic of Slovenia, it was said that there are 9 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants. Accurate information, because when we talk about numbers, let's be precise, is that there are 8 prosecutors per 100,000 population in the Republic of Slovenia, and with this information our country falls under the average of the European Union countries. This means that slightly more than half of European countries have several prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants. In the same group as Slovenia, i.e. with the same share of prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants – not with exactly the same number, but in the same group, because European countries are grouped – for example, Germany. There's something else I'll tell you about the numbers. If we are talking about the burden of the Slovenian prosecutor, we can say, and if we take into account the number of cases in the work of the prosecutors, we find that the Slovenian prosecutor is charged with 650 cases. The Swiss prosecutor, for example, is burdened less than Slovenia. So again, if we are looking at the classification of European countries here, for example, Switzerland for Slovenia. The average in the European Union is 615. And there's something else about numbers. As far as the quality of work is concerned – and this has been exposed today, i.e. how to measure quality – I would like to say that the proportion of convictions, the talk is about convicted adults, is increasing and it was 82% in 2012. So this percentage, if we look at a period of five years ago, is rising. As in every organisation, of course, even in the prosecution's organisation, not everywhere, there is room for improvement, as the prosecutors themselves recognise. And that is why, at the Ministry of Justice, we have already prepared, in cooperation with them, a novel of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, everything in manner, all with the aim of increasing the efficiency of the work of Slovenian prosecutors. We have also worked at the Ministry to further optimize the business processes of the prosecution, and also with a view to identifying some targeted situations in the prosecution, and to look at where further improvements could be made, to prepare a draft commitment, and this draft is also in the process of coordination with the Prosecutor's Office. So, although it has been said many times, the prosecution works well, effectively, but the possibilities for improvement are and are also intensely sought, or at an appropriate pace. Now I'm going to finish the numbers and say some other things that were exposed today. I'll start with the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. It was said that this law was not implemented. I would like to say here that we know that the law in force has been in force since the end of May 2012. We also know that the financial investigation under this law lasts from year to year. The financial investigation is a business review for several years in Slovenia and abroad. So, as I said, the law entered into force at the end of May last year, and it is therefore entirely appropriate or time-consumingly logical that the first actions were filed by the end of 2013. In fact, 3 actions have been filed while 17 financial investigations are under way under the law in force. However, since I have already mentioned this in this space, by those who apply the law, namely the judiciary and the prosecutions, it has been found where it could still be sealed or amended to be more effective, we have also made this effort at the Ministry of Justice, prepared a new law to make the procedures under this law even more effective, and this novel is already being discussed in the National Assembly. I continue to think, which has been said here today, that Slovenian justice is non-European. In this regard, I would like to say that, under the 9 recommendations made by the European Commission to Slovenia, two recommendations relate to justice. These two recommendations said that efforts should be upgraded for more, I will say, more efficient, faster trial in civil and commercial matters at first level. So, the European Commission recognised the progress, found it, but proposed further upgrades. In this regard, I would like to say that on the last visit that the European Commission has had to us, this is January this year, so early this year, it has been explicitly stressed that the area of justice is no longer or I will not say that it is no longer critical, but I will say that it has been said that the area of justice has moved significantly. Well, we were commended. This praise was followed by a detailed presentation of the figures on the work of the judiciary and also of the State Prosecutor's Office when the case was discussed on criminal matters. So the positive situation, the favourable situation, the laudable situation was highlighted at the last visit by the European Commission. The European Union's latest published analysis was published this Monday, and the judicial institutions in the Republic of Slovenia and the State Prosecutor's Office specifically say: "Slovenia has a good legal framework to fight corruption, and the competent authorities work well." The recommendation was then added that the Republic of Slovenia should continue to maintain the operational independence of the State Prosecutor's Office as part of the executive branch. I would also like to clarify with regard to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights that these judgments do not mean that the Slovenian judicial system does not work, but they say that, in certain specific cases, for various reasons, it was not fast enough that the procedure did not run properly. Therefore, as you know, in order to remedy such situations, the Lukend project was also adopted. A number of other measures have also been taken and implemented, and many other projects have been adopted and implemented in order to address such situations. On the basis of all this, the backlogs are shrinking significantly. The Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement has also been adopted without undue delay, which offers parties an acceleration in legal remedies and, of course, the possibility of compensation. So, once again, it's never been said that our justice system is not working. It was said what I was just trying to illustrate. I also conclude here today with the responsibility of informing the Ministry, i.e. the duty for the State Prosecutor's Office to inform the Ministry on the basis of questions raised by the National Assembly. It is true that, on the basis of the question referred by the Member States, the Minister may request a report on the criminal and other matters they deal with from the State Prosecutor's Office. However, it is necessary to look at or read the whole 177th Article of the State Prosecutor's Act, which allows state prosecutors not to provide data if it would prejudice the interests of the procedure, the confidentiality of the procedure and the privacy of the persons. Therefore, in the case of questions sent in the form of "Is a specific case pending a forecasting procedure against a particular person?" Both the State Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry can be in a awkward position. If the D.A. had provided the data, it would have jeopardized the success of the procedure, as it would have alerted the suspect and at the same time violated the privacy of all others involved. However, if the Attorney General or the Attorney General does not respond, he is quick to criticise that the Prosecutor does not work or that he is politically defending someone, and it is often clear to the Ministry that he does not have sufficient authority. Here I would like to point out that the powers of the Ministry of Justice are not and must not be guiding in specific matters. The Constitutional Court is already at the beginning of last year, I think this was February of last year, and has explicitly stated that the State Prosecutor's Office is part of the executive branch of government, but it is always necessary to respect the principle of functional independence or functional autonomy, if I am purely specific, of state prosecutors. So much, I think I've been able to explain most of what's been exposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u141	Thank you, too. Dr Vinko Gorenak also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u142	Thank you very much. A few words, however, also in response to what has just been said. Of course, it is true, Madam Secretary of State, that the prosecution must be independent in its decisions and so on, and I do not claim that you are interfering, nor am I, nor do I, but we must remember history with this request. On a specific case of the open criminal record, Mr Zalar sent supervisors from the Ministry of Ljubljana to the Public Prosecutor's Office, where they had been in good control of the open files for five months. So you can see how powerful the authorities are. You gave me some numbers. You said that Germany is equal to us or that it is in the same group. Yeah, but Germany has 6.2. You said that Slovenia has 8 prosecutors – I can, I have data for 2010, you may have reported for 2013. That's fine with me, but there's no way our numbers go together in the number of cases solved. Look, after all, the report The European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice says - Member States are sending data. And in 2010 the data went to Brussels to get our prosecutors to solve 71 cases, and you have 650. This isn't going together, so the data won't be accurate. [[advertising from the hall]] Aya's work, and that's backlogs, and you counted behind. But they're handling 71 indictments. But it's also true, you know, that for the first time it happened, that the OECD also pointed out the issue of our judiciary, but I wanted to go back a little bit. Before that, there were some more onsets, such as Mrs. Potter and Mrs. Kociper, and I will go straight ahead. We have heard such a fine lecture, but look, Mrs Kociper, as I have already explained to you on the committee: you cannot compare Mr Marolt with Mr Škrlec, it is not possible. With Mr Škrlec, the court decided that the appointment was illegal and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption said that it was corruption and the Supreme Court held back. This is a completely different matter from Mr. Marolt's. Mr Šturm has been sent to the criminal procedure for his appointment, this criminal procedure has been terminated before the court and Mr Šturm has been dismissed. Another time. When we issued Mr Marolt's decision in 2012, the anti-corruption Commission intervened, saying that we should not guarantee his return to the defence. We respected that, we overturned the decision and gave him a new decision. There were no criminal proceedings, no problems, and no commission judged anything. These two cases are also completely separate, different, and as far as the appointment of Mr Marolt is concerned, the matter is completely clear. Why aren't we discussing a natural disaster? I would be more pleased if you respected the President of the National Assembly, who first asked us not to talk about it. We will be able to discuss this when you bring some kind of law into this matter. We won't be able to do it any sooner, I guess. Then you said the problem with the outdated data was for Mr. Fisher. Mr Fisher's violation of the law is contained in the ruling of the Administrative Court. The fact that he voluntarily exercised authority is stated in the Administrative Court’s decision, and this is not outdated. This information is a year old and nothing more, you know. So you can't say we used old data. No, we didn't use old data, but we used very accurate and up-to-date data. We also used data on 5 billion. In fact, for 5 billion, Slovenian taxpayers were injured, and we asked him what he had done about it. He refused to answer that question in any way. However, his co-workers have said that up to now there are around €200 million of $5 billion. We didn't have any old data. Of course you can't get past your pain, Mr. Janez Janša. You know exactly why you worked in court that he didn't have to go to court when there was no evidence of him. You know that because you were there at work, but of course you have to do it again because it looks better. That's not true. He did not have to walk, nor did he ever leave out unjustifiablely. Either he apologized for being Prime Minister at the time, or he was there. We just need to clear this up. The fact that he doesn't recognize court decisions, you made it up. That's not true. How do you know he doesn't recognize court decisions?Oh, my God! But he can criticize them, just like me and you. You were very good at criticizing the prosecution's work on the committee when you said they'd been killing your party president for a year and a half and they wouldn't do anything. But look, that's how it is. You also criticize and it is right then to let others criticize you. You're talking about the crime scene at the D.A.'s office. I told you the numbers. Look, you've just given $5 million to the police and the D.A., about 4,5 million extra funds. The police have really lost a thousand 500 people in the last three and a half years, maybe four years, so I won't say anything if you add anything, and I also know what the situation is there to drive with those cars that now have 250 thousand kilometers on average and are 8 years old. So I don't have a problem there. As far as the prosecution's concerned, there's another question. We had another open question on the committee, as you know, because you were there too. The Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office made it very clear: I need new personnel, I can't get them at Law School, I can't get them on the street, but I have to get them inside the prosecutor's office, experienced prosecutors. It's also logical, it's a perfectly logical thing to need that kind of staff. But see, these frames can provide him with – who? Only the Attorney General can provide him with these personnel. No one else can guarantee it because the Attorney General can give the command, instructions down and say: from Celje so much, from Ljubljana so much, from Maribor so much and from Nova Gorica or Kopra so much. And so, of course, Mr Harry Furlan would have a covered-up Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. One of our conclusions went in this direction, but of course you rejected it, didn't you? And also the appointment of Mrs Irene Kuzma. We'll be direct. For 8 or 9 months, the government has a proposal for its appointment as Attorney General. Why isn't this lady named? Because she reached out to Mrs Bratušek by her decisions in the prosecution's work and is now not appointed, she is being punished for it. If this were done in our government, I think we'd have three extraordinary sessions. So we're clear. So much for that. The leaking of information is also a big problem for me, but look, the prosecution's organization and the police have to react the same way because we have the same laws that apply to all people. But in the case of Mr Jakić and this source from the police, whistleblower or whatever it was that Mrs Žist spoke about the house investigation of Mr Jakić, all the funds, methods, everything has been used, including computers seized, phones seized by a suspected whistleblower in the police. That's the problem. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah, great, I agree. But I'm asking, why didn't the D.A. apply the same criteria to Mr. Magayna? Why didn't he apply the same criteria to, say, Mr. Friend? And there was every cameraman on the scene before the police got there. With Mr. Friend, even in the ambush, the cameramen were waiting for the money transfer to be recorded. If, in these cases, the prosecution reacts with the same vats and the same criteria, it is correct. But you know, now it's not the same criteria. For some there are some criteria, for others there are other criteria. When he escaped the prosecution's indictment of the Patrio case and appeared in Youth, there was no investigation. They said it was a patriotic act or something in Youth. Look, these aren't the same criteria and they're not the same vats for everyone. Of course I'm resisting it, and I am against it, and that's why it's in our request. History to historians, you said – yes, right, but pure history. We have to have a clean history. We have to bury those we haven't yet. Then we can close this chapter and put the archives where they belong. You talked about them, too. Look, the archives have been open since 2006. It's a party archive, it's a judicial archive, it's an archive of the State Security Service, the SZDL, the Youth and everything that happened back then. And especially the police, the court, I already said, and the State Security Service. From 2006 to today, we do not have one legal, physical or actual problem with any archive, nor with the archives of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, nor with the archive of the former party. But we do have a problem. This problem is called the archive of the State Security Service. That's the only thing we have problems with is this archive. Since 2006, when these archives have been opened, these archives have been hidden, these archives are closed, they are tried to be closed by law, and then people decide not to do so in the referendum. He's trying to reinstate them with the law. Now we are back before the referendum, and one wonders why we are doing this or why this is happening in this country. If we take another piece of information – it applies to our government and to your governments. To this day, let us see today, to this day, we have not implemented the 2006 law. The director of the archive said at the last meeting we had on Info TV, on my question, and I also have a sent question, saying, "Yes, one metre of archives of the State Security Service is still with me." So it's not available again. However, the law has been fully clear since 2006. There's a problem here. There's no problem anywhere else. Why do we have a problem here? Because an important part of Slovenian left policy is afraid of what it says. The other one's not a problem. What else would be the problem? And here, of course, we have a problem. If I lock up and get to the bottom of this. Mrs Kociper has historical problems with her conclusions, and Mrs Potrata would have or would have had methodological problems with her conclusions. See, with conclusions there are no methodological problems, with conclusions there are no historical problems, with conclusions can only be moral problems. All the conclusions that we have presented are, for the first time, in accordance with the Constitution, secondly, in accordance with the laws – I am speaking, of course, of the amended conclusions. We have corrected what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has said. We have carefully corrected the cases and submitted them both to the petition commission and to the Committee on Justice. So what's the problem? I have to do it for the public, because now, after my performance, we're going to finish and we're not going to vote on anything, except when we share our time. What is the problem with the decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia condemns the operation of the former State Security Service, which in the 1980s illegally concealed, abducted and murdered domestic and foreign citizens? What's wrong here? Is that a constitutional problem? No, it's not. Is there a marriage problem here? No, it's not. Is there a moral problem here? Yes, it is. So this is a moral problem and I don't know why the coalition has the problem of making such a decision. It's not that, at least as far as SD's concerned, I think you said in 1996 you were condemning things back. At least that's what some of you said. The first President of the State has written a statement condemning such things. No, the coalition board said no. So this is a moral problem. This is not a constitutional or legal problem. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme Court, as well as the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and the police to do their utmost to investigate the crimes of the former SDV and their perpetrators are justly tried. Isn't that totally constitutional? Of course it's perfectly consistent with the Constitution. The legal system, we have a clear system – the police are investigating, the prosecution is accusing, the court is just. So what's the problem? The problem is that such a decision cannot be taken, and there is no other problem. But what hurt me the most or was the worst on the Justice Committee is this: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do everything to ensure that the relatives arrive at the remains and bury them with dignity. Look, this is where a man falls out of his hands. That we are not able to vote on this, but there is an excess of what man can say. I think this is the next problem. I was talking about the state security team earlier. I'm going to write something up there on the website, and I've already published it, but look, the problem is where the late Dr. Trontel said that as a doctor the psychologist treated the killer, the one who ordered the murders. When he came to him, he said: "Every night come those whom I have given to kill. I feel bad. They come in front of me every night and they torture me. I'm afraid to die, they're waiting for me." Look, I'm sure that's how each of us who hasn't supported these conclusions will feel. We supported these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u143	Thank you. Replica, mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u144	Mr Gorenak first said some non-reality, claiming that amendments were tabled on the petition committee yesterday. The Commission received the original text for petitions as material. She couldn't make any decisions because her mother's working body rejected the conclusions. We didn't get anything, and it's a complete lie. In 1995, the Social Democrats at the Congress in Slovenj Gradec regretted all the victims of post-war beatings and so on. All of this is mentioned in the declaration. However, if, for political reasons, Mr Gorenak needs to be repeatedly reminded of this and to offer conclusions, this is the problem of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which uses some sad, tragic, unnecessary events from history in order to re-count with its political opponents or rivals. This is an act of rejection. And being left-handed isn't a disgrace, and it's not forbidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u145	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I note that there is an interest in the debate and will call on you, under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, to apply for a debate. It's ten. Everyone has five minutes at their disposal. The first word is Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today’s session is such a meeting that I would like to see as few as possible in the National Assembly. Indeed, the meeting of the working body has made its decisions and I am sorry that the proposed decisions that have not been adopted have been discussed again today. Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia are the ones who can decide the matters we know, we have material, and in a specific case it was a debate on history. As already pointed out by colleague Kociper today, history should be decided by historians, experts, archivers who are archive experts. Members and Members of the National Assembly, we have gained the confidence of citizens and citizens, and in given circumstances that I do not come out of the area referred to here, I believe that in the Republic of Slovenia we have such points and topics, which we will still have much to discuss in the coming weeks and months, in particular in order to provide citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with greater hope for the future and confidence. I am not happy with today's debates, which I have had the opportunity to hear, and I want this kind of debate to be as small as possible, but I also want to maintain the level of debate at this point so that we do not go to personal insults, to the insults of people who are not here today and cannot defend themselves, but in particular that Members and Members of the National Assembly, regardless of coalition or opposition, are trying to enforce and adopt laws that will drive the Republic of Slovenia out of the crisis and give the younger tribes renewed confidence in the work of politics. Therefore, I am pleased that my mother's working body has not taken decisions, but that matters are resolved where someone is responsible for what they do, where their jurisdiction is. This should be decided by the law enforcement authorities, whether the judicial authorities are responsible for it or not, and if someone has been wronged, if someone has committed a criminal or criminal offence, be held responsible, but we cannot judge, decide Members and Members of the National Assembly. We can only have a political decision. Such decisions, which some of the proposals of the conclusions have led in a direction that is outside our competence, beyond our behaviour, are those that I cannot agree with. I propose that in the future we also try to be as realistic as possible in time, as carefully as possible in this direction. People think we're here today because we're paid after hours, and we're not. Members and Members of the Parliament are Members of the Parliament 24 hours a day, all the days of the year, and I wish that we do this work faithfully and properly, and that we do not offend each other or other people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! In fact, I agree with my predecessor, Mrs Brunskole, that we should act as she said. But nevertheless, due to the correct information to the public, as the predecessor spoke just before me, I would just like to say something about the vote. As regards yesterday's vote on the Commission for Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, we should vote in the opinion that we are aware of the conclusions to be made. I must say that the conclusions of the meeting were not mentioned by word of mouth and that I have proposed to the applicants that we do so by saying that we are familiar with the material in which these conclusions were made, but that the applicants disagreed. It should also be said that, in essence, the material provided did not apply to the contents of the joints in any way, at least for a large part. Second thing. If I go back to the past to the two petition committees, which we have also dealt with in terms of the scope of the SDV, I would like to say that at the very beginning, at least personally, we have said that, in the case of complaints, and this has been explicitly said, we were not competent to decide such matters at such a time. This was clearly and loudly said and the applicants disagreed with us and the meeting took place as it took place. If the applicants were well-intentioned with their conclusions on those two commissions – I must say that the conclusions came to the table of the other Members a few minutes before the end of the meeting. We assume that those six conclusions were written much earlier for some purpose. If this had been done earlier, we could have discussed it, we could have discussed it, and we could have had some other information before. Look, you were there with some information that I, not even a 40-year-old man, have ever heard in my life. And on the basis of this, based on the material you gave, which was not only flawed, but such that it was not possible to accept from his conclusions, I find that something I did not accept is really unworthy. But something's true, and we talked about it. I also proposed and did not command Mr Gorenak, as he then pointed out to me, that in such a case, if you do know some information, it would seem to be a lot more than I do, to propose the establishment of an investigative commission, whose powers, of course, are completely different, where those who are members can also play the role of judge and prosecutor, and let these things appear there. And Mr. Gorenak said, "Yes, we will give it if we want it." What does that mean? Is it, in fact, political overreaction? Is it really about the purpose of showing certain things as they should be, because attention – I do not know whether there were liquidations by members of the SDV, or whether they were happening in Slovenia, who carried them out, who was the victim. I don't have that information, and on the basis of nothing I can decide anything. I hope you understand that on the other side. On the basis of nothing I can do, I can't do anything that didn't do anything to a man's hair in his life. I don't deny anyone the dignity, the dignity of a burial or whatever human rights they claim to be. I'm flying because you've mentioned me a lot of times as a member of a coalition that does one thing or another is unworthy. And about the anonymous letters. I agree with Mrs. Jeraj, who said, "Sad is the country where anonymous letters must be." People should not be afraid by their name and surname of what lies on their soul or what others should do. That's how it's supposed to work in our country. And that. Both the President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, as well as the other members of the Commission, and Mr Vinko Gorenak, who is not a member of this Commission, were given a few days ago in the mailboxes, anonymous of course, where there are talks about some liquidations that should have taken place even after independence. Look, I was shocked. [[advertising from the hall]] As the address book, you're listed in the mail I got. I'm telling you, it's in there. If you've got it, I don't know, but look, maybe it would be wise to discuss it at some point. If that's the kind of information they're holding, it's terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u149	Thank you. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u150	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the representative of the proposer has dedicated a very large part of his closing speech to me, I am speaking again. I, with Dr. Gorenak, have the pleasure of sometimes exchanging arguments. There is no doubt that the expert in this area, which we are covering, knows in particular the functioning of the police, the prosecution. In the end, he was even a minister for this area. But I don't like it when this debate isn't professional, but it becomes discredited, it's said to be discrediting. And as I always say, I don't like to talk about specific people who aren't present and who can't defend themselves. Before I go on, first one explanation, because I didn't get the replica. You said, Mr Gorenak, that I criticised the state's prosecutor's office at the board meeting for a year and a half, Mr Jankovic. I think I have to come over here and explain to any of the viewers who still insist on this meeting, that of course there has been no use of either these words or such criticisms. When I was discussing the problems in the State Prosecutor's Office, I was talking about what I see as a problem, and I said that I saw as a problem this, there was a talk about the leaking of information, that there was such a very media-reflective house investigation, where journalists were at the door before the police and the prosecution came. Then a year and a half nothing happens, and this person is at the risk of a serious crime, which means a very serious interference in the personal rights of this person, while, in the absence of information, such long procedures also have a very negative impact on the quality of criminal proceedings, on the course of the proceedings, because I can witness in the meantime something happens, they get sick, go away, go away, forget or prepare for the defence, and then of course the procedure makes no sense. The rest I wouldn't even answer – it doesn't make sense. But in the end, I would have responded to one thing. The proposaler is trying to make us very emotional in this debate, for which I have already said what I think, end up serving proposal 6 of the decision and as the worst horror in the world by not taking a decision to call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do whatever is necessary so that the relatives and descendants of the displaced persons will find their remains and finally be able to bury them. Look, this feels really fucked up to me. I don't need any conclusion of the SDS that I want the relatives and descendants to find some of the remains of some people who miss them, and I think the same for those who were killed in World War II or after it, or in between, or before, or after, or at any time. Everybody deserves it. And to put a conclusion on some of the conclusions that you want to interpret with the Attorney General, in the end, to a conclusion that you think we can't reject – I feel extremely twisted and forced. I do not need a conclusion from the opposite opposition political party that I believe that the remains of the people must be found and buried with dignity. And neither does the Government need nor should it need such a decision, nor does it need it, because I have repeatedly said that this falls within the competences of those who deal with it. And as a relatively young person, even though I'm a very young woman, I don't let myself drag myself into this story, 40, 50 years old, about SDV and liquidation, and I don't know what it's all about. If that makes you so happy and intrigued and I don't know what, then do it. It seems to me that you are abusing this for political purposes and I feel very bad because we would rather talk about the future, about what we can do, maybe about what we can do together, but not that we are always warming up for the rubbars and the gendarmes and the partisans and the white and the black and the red. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Look, we should actually apologize to the electorate and the electorate for wasting our time all day today and discussing everything that is possible, which is not the fault of social democracy, but of someone else. You say what's wrong with natural disasters. On the Committee on Agriculture yesterday, together with the opposition, we took the appropriate measures to amend the legislation, but we have an interpretation of the Picala, we will talk about replacing the hymn and more. It is of interest that the state does not function and that the opposition does. Look, let's remember, the D.A. has to be on his own. No minister, no one else has the right to prosecute the prosecutor, no matter what. If it works wrong, we also have mechanisms that are not here in Parliament for the bad work of the prosecutor. I'm not going to mention everything, but some prosecutors have already lost their jobs, gone elsewhere, and so on, been punished, and they're also in the process. See if a policeman goes beyond his authority — are we considering this in the National Assembly? If a patient dies after a mistake, do we consider this in the National Assembly? Why are you interfering with the D.A.'s office? Interests are, of course, great, and the destruction of the other branches of government in the country is in turn. Of course Maslesha is next. The Ombudsman has already been appointed on the committee not to speak, who else, and so on. In order, everything needs to be pressured against these authorities so that they do not hope to work in their own conscience and in accordance with the laws. My colleague Horvat said this morning that we don't have any information on the state's attorney's work. Of course not. This document does not reveal the situation, no analysis has been done. None of them had this analysis, if they had been expertly examined, prepared material for the National Assembly, and then said: this and this should be changed in the field of legislation. We know that we are not satisfied with the prosecution that we want to work more. But as they have done in recent years, people are dear — if we did this 10 years ago, we wouldn’t have a hole like this and not much else. Dr. Fisher's got a lot on his mind, but remember, he never convicted anyone. Yes, Mr Jerovšek, it should be pointed out that he has always been the prosecutor of the State Prosecutor's binding on the legality. It is known that he must initiate, accuse the person if conditions are imposed on him, and then the judge is the judge, not the prosecutor. And the guilty or the innocent shall be determined by the court, not by the prosecutor. What now comes down to Dr. Fisher is, of course, an interpellation hidden in some material that is just like it is. It's an interpolation or a lustration, whatever you want. And I repeat, Maslesha is next and so on. This chain will, of course, go on. See, in the National Assembly, we have adopted some laws that interfere with this area, so that it will be easier to confiscate the assets, so that those who have made these holes – we have already listed them today, and I will not repeat the names – will come up and wait for their turn. Dr. Fisher won't let anyone put pressure on him for any name. In order to defend this pressure, it is correct that sometimes it is a grave to the Members, because we have our work here, but not to say: why have you not already imprisoned Pepi, why have you let him go and so on? This can't be a debate, but the material has such assessments, you know, nouns, what someone is, what someone has judged. How can I, Mirko Brulc, evaluate the work of one prosecutor if he was right or wrong? And there's a whole lot of us here. We can end this debate. It's a shame about eight and a half hours of work. This country will not benefit from a single pass so as to have a better economy, a better development path and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u153	Thank you. There is no replica at this stage. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It seems quite understandable to me that we are on two shores when we are talking about the prosecution's work, and if the central person was the advocate of the prosecution's placement in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it is likely that she cannot agree with the way in which we work and with this decision that the prosecution has returned under the intervention of the Ministry of Justice. I always define myself to the text I receive from the point of view of what the text or request for a meeting of urgency or emergency meetings should contain, and I have said that in this request I see a fundamental methodological problem in that the text, that the material we have is not related to the designation of the agenda item, is said to be thesis, and that it is therefore inconsistent and impossible to implement the proposed decisions. From here on out, it is unacceptable for me to argue that conclusions are of a moral nature. Since when does the legislative body decide on morality? It's ethical. I hope you distinguish between ethics and morality. By law, according to the Constitution, we have to decide by law, and the conclusions proposed have exceeded the powers, intervened and were formulated in a way that could not be supported. Not only at this meeting, but also at the time of the two petitions commission, we are being pressured so strongly by moral disqualifications that it interferes with individual integrity. This is bad for the work of the National Assembly because it is impossible to maintain some dignity in the conduct and at the same time what I have already talked about – that the Member is not yet criminally responsible for how he decides and votes, and no one has the opportunity to call him to account for how he votes. That investors are different opinions than we are, that they judge differently and that they judge their material as appropriate and reasoned, is understood only because each blacksmith knows what. If we move on. Look, what happened on the petitions committee yesterday, where the President called for an interesting job after the mother's working body had not adopted any decision and we were unable to agree on anything and there was no way to prove that we were talking about last year's snow, I'm sorry. Last year's snow is due to the fact that we have no choice as to whether we support or have anything to say about the conclusions of the mother's working body. Because the conclusions on the working body were not adopted, it was not possible for the applicants to prove it, but it was a violation of the rules of procedure. Moreover, I saw the evening video on the third parliamentary programme because I was not in the second part of the session. Let us now leave this detail that they spoke about me when I was not at the meeting, but Madam President claimed that the decision would be part of the report on the work of the Commission, but the decision was not voted on – 3 votes in favour, 4 votes against! What will be part of the report of the petition commission? These are unacceptable practices. And once again, the moral condemnation of Members for their conduct or vote is unacceptable and unacceptable in this process because I have already said several times that the National Assembly has passed laws under which compensation has already been paid to victims and the law has not yet been closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I am quite disappointed in this debate. Any working body, including interested, may adopt decisions and propose them further to the procedure. There is no problem and there is no reservation, and it might be good that those conclusions that have been proposed both on the home working body and on the interested person at least from the point of view of the piette try to understand and support a little bit. It is practically a fundamental civilisation standard in these conclusions. Now we are constantly listening to the evidence that we want to talk about the future. There are no measures for the future, except for borrowing. No action for the future is proposed by the Government. We are the victims of this coalition and we would like to participate in the development of solutions for the future, but we cannot. Systemic measures, intervention measures, if you want any other, can be proposed by the Government, and there are no such measures. You're only proposing measures for the present, but these are tax measures, so that's what's going to burden people. But I would like to remind you of some things that seem important to me at this point in the agenda. Today we have heard a statement by the Attorney-General that the opposition is in the process of lustrating institutions. That's impossible. The measures are always taken by the majority, and if we are talking about lustration, then this means that it is some measure which must be taken by a majority. And such rude instigation does not belong to any official in this country, even the highest in one of the structures, and boasts even that he was a constitutional judge. That's amazing. And the second observation he made today or yesterday was published today, but it is that the SDS is avenged for its legal defeats by political means. This is a statement that is not a court that is not appropriate for the Attorney General. Even more so, I find this inappropriate if we know of this case Fishergate 1, when, on the basis of one of the requested procedures, one of the so-called independent institutions has made a commission in which all the possible tops of these institutions have been made. It's some kind of investigation into a plot in Trenta with the president of our party. However, as we continue to look at the attitude towards crime, we can see that whether it is economic or banking crime, they are only partially, in part, with isolated cases, that they are actively engaged in specific and multi-disciplinary groups in imaginary crime, which they hang on to our President, but not doing absolutely anything about, say, researching political killings. Nothing, absolutely nothing. That the matter was even more complicated and even worse, the Attorney General, by finding the Administrative Court, broke the law, and he was denied the illegality and abuse of power, the Administrative Court. So this is an act of the judicial branch of power. And what happened? Is there any authority in this country responsible for the fact that the branches of power act legally, folded and did something to the State Prosecutor's Council in this case? If the Attorney-General is found to have committed an illegal act, all mechanisms in this country should be initiated and the Council of State has not acted, the Government has not acted, the coalition has not proposed anything. Well, seeing as we're on our way, it's really wrong. And it is obvious that those who are right and even at the top of the pyramid of decision making who make an illegal situation are, in certain cases, even desirable in these functions. Obviously. And how should we expect the prosecution's institution if it has not responded in such a case to act as it is expected to do for the rule of law in this country? How? That she'll be the same to everyone? That's impossible. In this case, she acted differently. That everyone will be processed according to some standards? That's impossible. Because we have each other, some who don't start the process, and others who run them over in a few seconds and so on. It's a tragedy or a sad moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Some have imposed some unacceptable adhesions and gone into unannounced obstruction, but let's leave it. Mr President, from this point of view, because of the abuse of today's debate, I call on you procedurally to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on Monday, in which the Government reports on the state of the country's natural disaster. You should have done that a long time ago. I expected her to do it yesterday at least. He's late, but you be on behalf of the National Assembly on the level and call a meeting. On Sundays, too, so we don't have to go on a cultural holiday tomorrow. I can do it on Sunday. I'll be here. So much for a start. First of all, I should have answered Mr Brultz, who framed me as if I were saying that Mr Fisher had convicted someone. I know exactly what this is about. I've already asked him to file an indictment in 1977 against those who bowed in the sea. If it were the same legality, it would be the same, today I would have charged Mr. Stannik, who did the same thing. I hope that now Mr. Resident will not prosecute him for doing so. Or maybe? I don't know. Then some things were so imposed. I am surprised that Mrs Jelusic has in some way condemned our client that, when she was in power, she went to clean up some of the archives of the Udba. That's crazy. The archives of the Udbe were a system, the former authorities had been very thorough, and now they are horrified because of the fact that 5% of what is still moving is visible to all the horrendous behaviour of the then regime, and they want to prevent the archives from being closed. It has also been said in a very strange way that if you have what the European People's Party resolution is and should not call for it. As far as Pussy Riot is concerned, it is also the left hand side and the whole of Europe has put great pressure on it, adopted resolutions and been effective. Putin actually had to raise his hands for the Olympic Games. Yeah, well, then it's against the law! Some are allowed, some are not allowed. They're on their own. Colleague Kociper said that the decision on the right to grave in the National Assembly was overturned and that she did not need such a conclusion that she knew that the remains must be buried. Yeah, she might know, she just doesn't want this country to make sure they find out where the remains are! That's what this is all about! They'd have buried their families if they knew, but they don't know about many. One Bistrician is also a Dachav sacrifice, and neither do relatives. A lot of people don't know. That is why we must make this commitment so that those party officials who have concluded, let us say, then accept who must be liquidated and kidnapped, and those living commanders should at least tell us where the remains are. That's civil. And if this is turned into Mrs. Kociper and for this coalition, then help us. Then God help us! What will Europe say when it hears that this is overturned? The leaking of information was problematic as if the prosecutors and the prosecutions were just one. Look, be consistent. Also, the fact that the board of directors gave to Mr Možina was confidential information at the time, and to this day, we do not all know. And that's what they got out of there, and that's all right, they tried to do a media murder on him. That's fine, because it's political on the other side. But there's all this legitimate and positive stuff, and it was praised, and the press wrote the ordered columns, and I don't know what. We are fighting precisely against this duality, and so that the State Prosecutor's Office is also transparent, to act on everyone equally and to once tackle this bank robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u159	Thank you, too. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I have to say, there's almost no one left to answer. Look at the scheming, the complete scheming. Mrs Potrata says, "We have already adopted a law whereby they are entitled to compensation." Yeah, who and who? If the Austrian police led this boy as a wanted person until last month. How come the family doesn't even know what happened to him if they've been missing him for 40 years? It applies the law to victims of war and post-war violence and involves victims of the State Security Service. These two aren't connected at all. I don't know, I can't tell the President anything but that she lied, even though she's not here right now. Here's the next one. Mr Brulc is – I would very much like to read now an email that flies on Mr Brulco and comes from his environment, and I will not do it because he is not here. But look, he said, "The opposition is nagging us, the opposition is causing us trouble instead of helping us." We have introduced 200 laws, 200 laws in three years in the previous term. None of them have been accepted. Then why would we do that? Bad job with the D.A.'s office. For the bad work of the prosecutors, there's a penalty, he said. Yeah, look, the D.A. acted unlawfully. Now what? The prosecutor acted corruptly, which is not yet legal, but he has already acted unlawfully, Dr. Fisher. That's what the court found. What kind of punishment did he get? None. The prosecution has already done the wrong thing in the case, however, for which taxpayers will pay EUR 16,000. What kind of punishment did anyone get? No punishment. Fisher did not condemn anyone – yes, of course. At the board meeting, I said he was a judge, but he was a prosecutor in that same case. We all know that man can be wrong. But in that case, when he accused the priest and that housewife and then both priests were convicted, he made a professional mistake, which was abolished in 1995 by the Supreme Court, which said that it was not a crime even under the old law. So he didn't act legally and he made a mistake, and nothing happens to him. At the board meetings he's screwing with us, claiming he should be present at the National Assembly meeting, teaching us that I don't know what it is and so on. We can't replace him anyway, neither can the minister. Because the previous minister wrote such a law. That's exactly what we know. Then there was a speech — I don't know who already talked about it. Yeah, you were talking, I think, about this secret entrance and some murders in the '90s that someone wrote about it in an anonymous file. I don't know, I think you did or you didn't. It doesn't matter. Someone's been talking about it. You are, aren't you? This blog is written by Mr Mitja Kunstel. Convicted of drugs, convicted of crimes, I don't know what. He was banned in the U.S. from blogging, he was shut down. Now he has a blog in Slovenia, and he's being funded by the state, and you won't believe it. His country finances him through Celje Hospital, the Municipality of Celje and some other organizations. But there's my personal belongings, and we're gonna be trying to sort these things out in court personally, and the person doesn't want to believe because tomorrow he's gonna write that you're the killer. But don't be surprised if you'll find yourself among the murderers, because it's capable of writing, and there's not much to look at with these blogs. Then there was a lot of talk about this, and this is what I have to do – Mrs Kociper said that this is a perverted act if we suggest that the state should help find the bones. Is that a misbehavior? For me, it is a perverted act that someone is incapable of voting for such a decision. Before that, it's a perverted act and nothing else. So I am deeply convinced that, despite the fact that the conclusions were not adopted at the meeting or at the committee, we will not be able to vote on them today, but it is only right that we have spoken on this subject and that it is right that we have also opened the subject. That idea, too, was very good from Mr Brulco for a further session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u161	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. What I have disputed is that the government has decided 5. 2. Thus, two days ago, to give the DA a million 700 and the Ministry of the Interior to increase the number of criminalist jobs 3 million from intervention funds – I have a problem with this because this money was earmarked from the reserve. I would expect that at a time when the state is dealing with one of the worst disasters, for example, 3 million firefighters or someone who is dealing with the consequences of the accident, I do not know, Elektra or workers, in short, anyone, but not from intervention means to the prosecution and criminals. I think that this is a regular activity, that things need to be settled within the budget when the time is right, but not at some letter meeting, so to speak, of 4 million 700. Now, something more important. Mr. Meh said that he doesn't know who the Uprising is, who the devils are, that it's obvious only us who know. Others wonder why we have to deal with this today. Now I'm going to tell you why we're not wasting our time because we're talking about this today. Mr Meh must have been at the SD Congress in Kočev in June 2012. There was also Mr Silva Gorenc, one of the chiefs of the Federal Judgment in the 1970s, from March 1972 to October 1974. That's their member, member of SD. At that congress, he said that the SD should support Mr Turk as President, not Mr Pahor, and I will also tell you why not Mr Pahor. There must have been someone else at this convention, including Mr. Weber and someone else. And if he doesn't know what Udba is and who the chiefs of the Udba were, let him go online. He'll find out everything, it's all in there – Mr Mitja Kraigher, Dolanc, Grounder, also Tomaž Ertl. Therefore, in the SDS, we have launched a constitutional indictment against the President of the Republic when Mr Ertle was awarded a national medal. It seemed unacceptable to us that such a man was worthy. If our followers were like others, the head of the Udba in Croatia admitted years ago that he was near the elbows in the blood, that is, very bad things, and if any of our people could do it, it would probably be different. Now I will tell you why the problem was the appointment or support of Borut Pahor during his candidacy for president. May I remind you that Mr Borut Pahor, at the time he was Prime Minister, had notified the Capital Investment Management Agency and Dagmar Komar to the Anti-Corruption Commission. However, he reported them because there was supposed to be a suspicion that lobbyist Janez Zemlerič and Drago Isajlović, or someone else, were to influence the leadership of the agency. First of all, what about this 2010 investigation, what the anti-corruption commission did for it, and let me say that we are talking about 2010, that is, 4 years ago, 3 years ago. Mr Zemlarič and Mr Isajlović, former Head of the Udba, decide what the state will or will not sell, how we will manage our investments. Tell me, is Uda still alive then or what? We are supposed to dissolve the Judgment in 1990 when the new democratic regime came. Mr Zemlarič and Mr Isajlović, however, have an impact on what will happen in the country in 2010, and therefore the then Prime Minister, from the left political option and from their party, will report them to the anti-corruption commission. And what about this procedure? Where did it get stuck again with Mr. Klemenčič, who is so fast when something has to be done? See, such an application – Mr Pahor didn't dream of a certain night, but he probably had some serious evidence for it, otherwise he probably wouldn't have reported it to the anti-corruption commission. And if such a statement is made by the Prime Minister, we should ring all the alarms in the country and all those who are part of the judiciary, the law enforcement authorities should act and do so immediately. If there were no new things coming now about Mr. Earthling, nothing would have happened. And what I expect from the prosecution is that it will review the examination of Mr Zemljaric, Mr Isilović. If they have no idea, let them watch the reports every day, and they'll see what to investigate. Let's go check out the 100 richest Slovenians. They will immediately find that they have no place to get millions in a few years except through corruption and some irregular and criminal acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I see we're coming to an end. I am sorry that there are not some colleagues here today who have had a lot to say why this meeting is not necessary. However, I believe that in the last month in this National Assembly there have been some actions that deserve the greatest attention not only in the Slovenian public but also in the European public. At two sessions of the petition commission, which could be calm, something happened that did not remember the civilized world for the past 2,000 years. At the time of the development of the Roman state, in 459 B.C.E., when the so-called plebeans left Rome because the rules were not respected and demanded the written procedure, so that someone would write something, not only that he claimed, formed the first code of so-called 12 plates, one of the first parts of the development of Roman law, which then went somehow into the development of codification and so on, Justinian codification, glossarys and postglossators. So, 459 years before we count, some people demanded literacy. And today all serious matters are written, all legal transactions run not only orally but also in writing. Some legal transactions, however, require the so-called form of legal business, which means a special form. For example, even when you get married – say Mr Kurnjek, if you are married, or those who are married – do not tell your wife: I agree with this, but I will not sign anything and I will not say anything in front of the witnesses. And at these two petition board sessions, the masks fell. Masks have fallen, what we are able to do in a policy direction, that part of the policy is capable of undermining the human standards that have been applied in civilized nations for the past 2,000 years, and that will remain in the history of this National Assembly. That's what disgusts me, which is why I said what I said. That's what I think. I have contempt for people like that. I have no contempt for my political competition, which has different opinions on problems in society, but people who cannot confirm their fundamental civilisation standards in writing deserve a serious assessment whether they belong to the National Assembly or not. And that's what in me right now is causing a lot of mistrust, especially when you look at the Internet, when you look at the archives, the ones people have been sending lately, when you see that there are quite a few former SDV members in the National Assembly. Does this seem normal to you as President of the National Assembly? Do you think that's right, something hygienic? And then he attacks the president of this commission if she didn't run properly. What was wrong with her? That she presided over the meeting and finally asked you to vote on the basic standards that normally had been laid down in the civilized nations, even in the Roman state, even after each battle, their military opponents had been civilised. These are standards that are 2,000 years old and that are somehow unwritten, because these basic human standards also do not need to be written because they have always been respected. And that's what happened. Something like this happened, for example, after World War II in the Nuremberg trials, where a number of former Nazis sat and said that they were following the law in the Nuremberg court. And what happened in the legal profession, what happened in Nuremberg? There was a movement that brought together the greatest legal profession and they said: this was so unfair that it was no longer the right, and this was not the right of civilized nations. And what happened on the Human Rights Commission was not the actions of some people representing parties called social, democratic or positive. It was something out of context. And now I ask you as President of the National Assembly and those who have remained in this Chamber and the Slovenian public: where are the foundations on which Slovenian policy can be unified at this time? If these are not the fundamental human rights that the December 1948 United Nations declaration or the European Declaration on Human Rights is talking about, then we have concluded those who have remained in this Chamber, with respect for citizens and citizens, a respected eminent assembly. We have concluded as a nation, we have trampled on Slovenian identity, we have trampled on that sane way of thinking, and as Pučnik would say, especially for those who are so-called political converts: you have lied to us for decades, I do not know why we would believe you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-07-SDZ6-Izredna-54.ana.u165	Thank you, too. I must inform you that the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to engage in the debate and to answer any of your questions. By noting that all of you who have been reported under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been debated. I hereby conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision and in accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a decision has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 54th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice weekend. Goodbye.
