ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Žgajner, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Mrs Janja Attack, Mrs Alenka Pavlič, Mrs Jasmina Opec by 2 p.m., Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Branko Ficko, Mr Jakob Preseknik and Mr Aloj Potočnik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2014 and 2015 following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Dr. Chufer will provide an additional explanation for the bill. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia includes a series of provisions which are necessary for the normal implementation of the budget adopted, interferes with different areas and is linked with different material legislation. During the implementation of the law, certain shortcomings have been identified, and other substantive provisions have been adopted to implement which also need to be amended by ZIPRS. At the same time, it is also necessary to include specific provisions in the law that will allow the budget to be implemented to the extent envisaged, despite a reduction in property tax revenues. The proposal for a bill thus interferes with different areas, perhaps if I mention the most important. It lays down the new earmarked revenue of the Grants Budget Fund, which is the remuneration paid for the temporary and occasional part of the pensioners under Article 27f of the Labour Market Regulation Act. It limits the procurement rule in such a way as to enable direct users to carry out the contract on the basis of well-founded spending rights. In these cases, only exceptions shall be made, with the exception of those projects for which funds will be provided under surplus consumption rights under Article 7 of the ZIPRS for 2014 and 2015. It tightens the conditions for the Minister of Finance's consent to pre-payments from the budget, on the basis of drawing up the EU funds, in order that the direct budgetary user of the budget will have to make more efforts to prepare requests for reimbursement of EU funds in a timely manner to the state budget. It increases the scope of the possible indebtedness of non-financial corporations in the main ownership of the country; it amends the Article setting out the way in which indirect users of the budget are drawn up, in the part which sets out the obligation to reduce the number of employees by 1% or which prohibits new employment. It provides for the possibility of reallocation of spending rights from the financial claims and investments account to the financing account. It provides that the Government or the municipality, as the founder of the indirect budgetary user, may provide that the surplus of revenue over expenditure on indirect budgetary users may be directed to the budget of the State or to the municipality, or that transfers may be reduced to the indirect budgetary user where the surplus is shown. Since the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on the implementation of the budget for 2014 and 2015 are essential for the smooth implementation of the budget adopted by the State, I propose that the law submitted be adopted both in the second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! At its 92nd urgent meeting, on 15 May 2014, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2014 and 2015; the proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration. The Committee was attended by the Legislative and Legal Service and commented on Articles 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 9. Qualified applicants tabled the following amendments: on 14 May 2014, the SDS Group on 3, 4 and 7; on 15 May 2014, the Group of Non-Aligned Members on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service – amendments to Articles 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Act. We have also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. A representative of the Ministry of Finance took part in the meeting. In the debate, the biggest talk was that changes to the law on the implementation of the budget were intended to increase the framework for flexible debt in 2014 from EUR 1 billion 200 to EUR 2 billion and for 2015 from EUR 700 billion to EUR 1 billion. This opened up a very broad debate and dissatisfaction with the view that the majority of Members felt that the scope of the debt, the current indebtedness and that we were too quickly indebted and the volume was increasing too quickly. Subsequently, an amendment was tabled, which reduced this proposed proposal by EUR 400 million, which can be increased by 400 million in 2014, from EUR 200 billion to EUR 1 billion. The question has also been raised and the suspension of the meeting due to why this money will be needed, this increased level of indebtedness. And the answer was that it was envisaged that bad claims from Banka Celje would be taken over, and that the Gorenje Bank would probably not be able to do so this year, but in 2015. This amendment, which was substantive, was then adopted, so it is also included in the proposal before you. The Committee also adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, but did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors to delete Articles 3, 4 and 7. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a supplementary text of the draft law, which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly, has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you also to the President for presenting the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u6	All in attendance, all in attendance! Social Democrats understand the need to act responsibly and ensure the normal functioning of the country at a time of increasing political instability and upcoming elections. As a factor of stability, we will also be responsible, but also with the necessary caution, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2014 and 2015. The ground for amending the Law on the implementation of the budget is first of all the fact that a legal basis must be created for the Government to be able to replace part of the funds caused by the constitutional repeal of the Real Estate Tax Act, after most political forces have refused to increase value added tax as a possible alternative measure. The law, however, brings a number of important but technical solutions. Thus, the draft law provides for benefits from the temporary part of pensioners' work carried out as the dedicated income of the Grants Budget Fund. This is necessary in view of the fact that the definition of purpose in the sectoral law is not sufficient and either the Public Finance Act or the ZIPRS is a place for determining the purposefulness of income. The law also strengthens the conditions for the payment of the budget when it comes to drawing on European funds, so that the direct user of the budget will have to make more efforts to prepare timely requests for reimbursement of European funds into the state budget. In this way, the effectiveness of the return of European funds to the state budget is sought. A few amendments are also made to the article setting out the way in which indirect users of the budget are drawn up, in the part which sets out the obligation to reduce the number of employees by 1%. Pursuant to the proposed provision, the number of those employees in indirect budget users whose source of remuneration is European funds and other international funds, including Slovenian participation funds, or assets from market sales of goods and services, or non-public funds for the provision of public service, or funds received. However, in the SD Group, we have tabled an amendment to Article 5 which makes exceptions to the reduction of employees employed under the Law on the Elimination of Natural Accidents. In addition, we propose to exempt young researchers, trainees' doctors and health professionals from the required 1% reduction in the workforce, as well as young researchers, trainees' doctors and specialists, trainees' health professionals, researchers' workers and employees through public works. With particular attention, we have followed the debate on the new Article 73a, which provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the municipality, as the founder of the indirect budgetary user, may, irrespective of the provisions of other laws and regulations, provide that the surplus of expenditure from previous years on indirect budgetary users may be paid to the founder's budget or that the transfer of this amount over the current year to the direct budgetary user which has shown the surplus shall be reduced. We have been reminded of this issue by a number of public institutions whose founder is either a state or a municipality, and a number of questions have been raised as to the appropriateness of such a solution. We do not agree that good public administrations – who have managed well and created surpluses or deliberately saved for a certain purpose in order to improve the quality of public services – would simply take away money. We have also required a more specific definition from the government on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, in which cases it is possible to cut these funds. Since we have not reached a better text of this Article and because we believe that the proposed text allows for too much arbitrariness and discretion on the part of the Government, in which cases it may go beyond the surpluses created, we believe that it is better to delete the article, as we also propose in the amendment tabled to this Article. Finally, we are also in constitutional compliance on this issue on slippery ground, and therefore we believe that it is safer to stop the provision badly than to risk failure in the Constitutional Court, as well as the recovery of funds with late interest. In Social Democracy, we will support the bill and we call on Members and Members to support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Good-bye, Your Honor! The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia is essentially a technical law and allows for the smooth implementation of the budgets adopted. That's the way it is in this case. The most important elements of the bill's proposal are thus, for the first time, the tightening of the conditions for payment from the budget for EU funds. In this way, the direct user will have to make more efforts to prepare timely requests for reimbursement of EU funds to the state budget, which is important for improving the effectiveness of the EU's return to the state budget. Secondly, an increase in the scope of the possible indebtedness of non-financial corporations. For this year, the implementation of the tasks under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is further envisaged, and we are thinking mainly of the envisaged state aid for the Bank and the Bank of Celje. Thirdly, the earmarked revenue of the Budget Fund for grants from benefits paid for the purpose of carrying out temporary and occasional work of pensioners is fixed. While intention has already been defined in the sectoral law, it has been shown that this is not sufficient because the assigned revenue must be regulated either within the law governing public finances or within the annual law governing the implementation of the budget for each year. Fourthly, a less stringent rule is laid down for the award of a public contract for the execution of projects from the allocated surpluses of spending rights. Fifthly, the Article amending the obligation to reduce the staffing plan of employees by 1% is amended. However, in accordance with the proposed provision and the proposed amendment, which we will also support, there is no need to reduce the number of employees who receive wage financing from the sale of goods and services on the market, from the non-disclosure of public service funds, from the funds received from the EU or other international resources, including co-financing from the State budget; from the funds of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for Doctors and Specialists, from the medical workers of trainees and from the medical workers of trainees, from the public works system, from research projects, from the resources of employees under the Act on measures to remedy the consequences of the greed between 30 January and 10 February 2014, irrespective of the source from which their salaries would be financed. Sixthly, it is possible to redistribute spending rights from the financial claims and investments account — that is, the B balance sheet — into the financing account, into the C balance sheet. For the week, provision was made for the establishment of a budgetary user to allow expenditure over indirect budgetary users to be directed to the budget of the State or municipalities or to reduce transfers by the same amount to the indirect budgetary user. The last rule raised quite a bit of dust. Many have begun to debate in order to purposely raise money for those who have saved, and this money has now been taken away by someone, a country or a minister who will come and collect savings; indirect budget users will be punished for their rational behaviour and saved money will not be able to use it for the purpose they planned. It's too much to say it's not like that. The provision itself did not have such a criminal purpose. In order to write down additional safeguards in order to find the proper record and the necessary agreement, we decided in the Group of Non-Aligned Members to support the amendment that deletes that provision. The draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 will be supported by a group of unrelated Members. We believe that the smooth implementation of the budget, with all the solutions it proposes, is urgently needed. It will also support the addition of Article 5 and the deletion of Article 7 of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with the co-workers. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposed law introduces two key amendments. The first relates to a new debt, while the second relates to the search for hidden reserves that individual budget consumers keep for its sole purpose. For the Citizen List, the most interesting part is the increase in the possible extent of the debt of DUTB or so-called and today almost infamous bad banks. The ease with which the government proposes to entrust citizens with an additional €800 million without any serious explanation is unbelievable. In the Civil Gazette, we will not accept additional duties from Bianca. If the government wants to carry out an additional debt, we expect a serious analysis, credible reasons and information on why it was necessary; not that it is happening, as in this case, that we are bidding on the competent committees, how many hundreds of millions will we confirm. Millions and billions of people in this house are no longer being controlled, but we are literally baranting. When the government sees that there is no support for two billion, it is willing to take one and a half, even though the facts at that time have not changed a bit. Such action is unfair and disrespectful to citizens. Some lose their moral compass, and the Civil Code will not cooperate. We're not going to confirm your blind debt. Dear Government, come with information, with facts and very well explain why I will have my two children additionally in charge of bank resolution; and perhaps then you will be able to count on our vote. In addition, I would like to remind you that we have promised citizens a public investigation into bank resolution in the way that this was done in Iceland; and none of this has been done. The Civil Code has drawn up a new law – the Law on Access to Public Information, which will allow at least some clarification of what has been happening in our banks, and show what is still hidden in the drawers; but unfortunately it has stuck in the wheels of bureaucratic procedural barriers. For more than a month, I have been waiting for the opinion of the European Central Bank, so today I am calling on you, the distinguished President of the National Assembly, to emulate this institution and allow you to decide as soon as possible on this law so that the masks will finally fall. We do not want to speculate in the Civil Code, but we suspect that many in high political positions are seriously stinking and that they will do much to prevent its adoption. I ask all of us whether we have anything to hide; and if we don't, please tell me why citizens don't deserve the right to know who they saved. The second point is related to the non-acceptance of the last VAT increase, which we have achieved in the Civil Gazette. As a source of compensation for the loss of this revenue, the government has also proposed a selective review of the surplus resources of individual budget consumers. I stress – extra; this is not about collecting money from school funds, earmarked funds collected in pension homes, and so forth. Of course, the provision can also be understood as punishing those who do business well and rationally, as well as stimulating economic operators. However, such flat-rate assessments are mainly reflections of politicians who are not interested in serious work. In Slovenia, linear austerity measures have already been exhausted. The next step in consolidating public finances requires a selective approach, ranging from the item to the item, from the user to the user and looking at what is necessary and what is not. Serious work and a serious approach are needed. The approach, which some ministers do not smell, is therefore no surprise that this action is opposed not only by organisations that fear that they will be able to save resources, but also by individual ministries run by social democrats or socialists, as they are called in the context of the European elections. Their concept is clear. It is better to collect citizens through higher taxes than to take a selective approach to the use of excessive non-useful resources for the urgent needs of the budget. So defense of your own rich kindergartens. The opposition of three government officials in the bill already clearly shows that the bridges of trust within the government have been disrupted, that, after defrosting the corruption of the burdened individual in the National Assembly, we have faced a new ratio of forces, which must be adapted to it by the Government and for our actions, even if necessary, to seek a broader consensus. I believe that we will all jointly confirm the necessary measures in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the government has not obtained this agreement in this law, so we have no choice but to pack this law, to deposit it in the envelope, and to return it to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Pavlishich. Before I give the following word, which will represent the views of the Group of Members, I am obliged to provide an explanation, although in the position of the Group of Members it is not most appropriate to expand the debate. With regard to the procedure for the law referred to and dealt with by the European Central Bank, the National Assembly immediately sent this law to the European Central Bank for examination and, as soon as we obtain that opinion, the procedure in the National Assembly will continue. So much for an explanation. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u12	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Let me tell you right away that I don't have a package for you like my friend in the Civil War. I will present the position we have in the Slovenian People's Party on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2014 and 2015. We are talking about a very serious marriage in a very delicate time. This is also evident from the views of the parliamentary groups, and although the electoral time is approaching, I would expect from the government, as well as from those who are still forming a coalition, although it is no longer clear who to take seriously and responsibly the preparation of this law, as well as the treatment and acceptance. From this law, which we have received from Members of Parliament and Members at the table, the simple spirit of the government, which has just passed this good year of its short term. It is a law that in many elements borders once again on the constitutional dispute on the one hand and that it is more than an obviously inconsistent law, which is not harmonised in the coalition, but only that one of the opposition may make a comment in the preparation of this law; therefore, the positions are the same as they are. First, it is totally unacceptable that, with such ease again for 1.1 billion, for a thousand 100 million, additional rights are granted, the possibility of bequeathing the Poor Claims Management Company. We, Slovenes and Slovenians should know more about what is going on in this society today. I am firmly convinced that this entire political circus, which escalates at the end of the break-up of the coalition, is also due to the fact that many have a great interest, that neither politics nor citizens know what is actually happening to the hundreds of millions for which individuals are responsible and are today the bearers of important political functions, including political functions, or, rather, important economists who are acting in a spirit of politics. First of all, it is totally unacceptable for us as Members to give such bills to this society, which does not report to us qualitatively on what it is doing; and in my profound belief, it is completely wrong to lead this policy. The second, which is totally unacceptable and is once again in the direction of this government, instead of looking for solutions to speed up European funding, how to be a government partner with those who are working on projects, you place some sticks on the wheel of this demanding system over and over again. I myself know what it was like when I was at the Ministry when it was necessary for the Ministry of Finance to simplify the procedures so that we could get to those so-called overcommitment, that is to say additional spending rights to actually talk today about projects that can be drawn. The projects are enough, and today you do not even provide sufficient resources in the strategic documents for the next perspective to implement these projects, and in these processes we are making it difficult for ourselves to draw on European funds. It's completely unacceptable. The third issue that is also unacceptable in this law and is in fact a reflection of the policy that exists in this government is what is conceived in this law on the implementation of the budget, so that mayors or ministers can use their left hand to save those who work. To those who create; to those who save; to those who raise donor funds and in this way also alleviate the difficult situation in the public sector. I myself have quite a lot of experience from the 13-year period of county from one of the major municipalities where we had eight primary schools, even a variety of cultural institutions. Between institutions, there is a huge difference between directors in how they manage the same funds. And so, with such a principle as is now established, those who are masters are easily punished; those who work. It is a very good explanation that this is due to the fall of the property tax, which has been suspended by the Constitutional Court. This is because those masters, those who have worked in the past, were unable to collect taxes through real estate law, or we wanted it in an illegal way, but we will here, with such a handball move, and those who work in the public sector, collect the funds that are saved. Let me mention just two cases of two directors who called me personally and allowed me to expose them. Božidar Jakac Gallery in Costajevic and Ljutomer Health Home. Two typical hosts in public institutions [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Simplely played. [[…]] Their view is that those who have drawn up such a law should simply be punished, as it is simply unacceptable to suspend public sector management in such a way. More later than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! We all know that the situation in the country is such that it is necessary to allocate budgetary resources also because of the decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm thinking mostly of a property tax drop here. Thus, the government has come up with a proposal for a new Law on the implementation of the budget, which includes a number of measures regarding the revised allocation of public finances. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we focused mainly on the level of State guarantees, which was remedied at the meeting of the working body with a lower amount. The next thing we can see is the downsizing of staff in the public sector. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore agree that the Human Resources Plan further excludes the part of the funds that cover the income of doctors of trainees, specialists, health personnel as trainees and so on; and employees due to natural disasters or so-called intervention cases. This is a matter of public works aimed at eliminating the consequences of pharynx. This will support the proposed amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. The next thing we've been very careful about is the provision of Article 7 which regulates the allocation of surplus in indirect budgetary users, including homes for older citizens. For the latter and for all budgetary users in the Joint Democratic Party of the Member States, we believe that this provision is inappropriate, non-stimulating and extremely threatening to all those institutions that are committed to saving, economics and creating positive results. In the DeSUS Group, we are confident that the reactions of some competent authorities are justified and justified. That is why we also understand the fear expressed by the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, the Union of Retirement Associations of Slovenia, the University Rehabilitation Institute of Soča and could also mention that this article has a significant impact on the business of these users. From this positive part of the funding, institutions invest in the development, infrastructure, knowledge, quality of services and the like, all with a view to maintaining and improving their services. We are representatives of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and the purpose of this Article, as we understand it in our Group of Members, is to fill the budget at the expense of a property tax of about 200 million euros. In the Group of Members, we are aware and remind ourselves that this hole must be somehow covered. And this government proposal just offers it. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we object that this proposal has reached out to that part of the institutions that care for the older population, the majority of which do not have even average pensions, and so much less to above average pensions. It may be heard that such a prepared government provision is inappropriately oriented and extremely wasteful, but we must imagine that both sides should be looked at, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side of the budget. And the fact is that the total surplus of indirect budgetary users is more than €200 million. We are therefore also wondering where these surpluses come from in light of the social and economic crisis. Even in the area of health, for example, in pharmacies and health homes, this surplus of funds is to be transferred to the budget of municipalities or local communities; for which we strongly reject in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, because we are advocates that earmarked funds cannot be transferred for other purposes. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will listen to the ongoing debate and we will vote on our own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wish everyone a good day! The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats in relation to the amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budget you probably already know. This is because our views, our principles, do not change depending on the distance to the elections. Mainstreaming is certainly one of the important values in politics, as is entrepreneurship and saving when it comes to the welfare of citizens and citizens. Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members of today's amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 will not be supported. The new Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 again allows for additional debt under the initial bill for an additional EUR 1.1 billion, amounting to EUR 1 billion and EUR 100 million. Following an amendment to the bill by the Committee on Finance, a total of €700 million. According to the accounts, if the meeting of the Finance Committee was longer and by the opposition and the work of the coalition, the debate might be more intense, perhaps this additional debt limit would be even lower, perhaps only to 500 million. We strongly oppose these solutions by Christian Democrats. Debt is the central feature of the current government in a derogation, which must end irrevocably with its fall. The rate of indebtedness during this government was 1 million euros per hour. This year alone, we have already committed €4.7 billion. At the end of the year, public debt will reach almost €29 billion or 80.9% of GDP, according to the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, data from the Ministry of Finance on the state of potential liabilities for guarantees show that the country has almost €8.3 billion in guarantees. If I had to pay them off suddenly, public debt would have grown strong over 100% of GDP. In Novi Slovenija we object to any additional responsibility for any purpose, not for additional funds for the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks. For these purposes, we have already committed almost 11% of GDP. Christian Democrats point out, however, that in the area of the search for culprits for the creation of a bank hole and the search for responsibility, criminal and material, we have not yet done anything. From this point of view, therefore, the call to all supervisory authorities of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, the Disclosure and Persecution Authorities and the Courts – you are on the move. We expect you to carry out your mission, find those responsible for the situation in Slovenian banks and bring into the state budget the assets that the responsible illegally acquired. Under the responsibility of the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, however, it is high time to draw the line and thus preserve the sovereignty of the country. In New Slovenia, we are also critical until a solution whereby the founder may require an indirect budget user to contribute to his budget the surplus of income over past years' expenditure. It is not possible to overlook the fact that some indirect budgetary users also generate revenues on the market by selling goods and services; and that in some cases this income represents even a greater share compared to the funds received by the founder. Since now, existing legislation has the right and obligation of indirect budgetary users to spend surpluses from past years to finance their activities. Most often, these funds are earmarked to finance new planned projects, which constitute an expansion of the operations of the indirect budgetary user, and more often, funds are earmarked for necessary maintenance or investment works. While this would be the responsibility of the founder, we know that, for well-known public financial reasons, the state or the municipality, as the founders of the budgets, is not able to provide even funds for the maintenance of the assets on a regular basis. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] kindergartens, schools, health homes, nursing homes, institutions and other institutions; or investment funds, unless they are co-financed by European Union funds. [[…]] As already mentioned above, Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Who gives this government, which carries out ongoing business, the right to be in debt to us and to be in debt to future generations; and who gives us any moral right to confirm the conclusions that the government will be able to give to future generations on the basis of the basic proposal for more than a billion euros. Is it not enough, or is it not enough, as the President of the Government, who is doing business, on Monday, that this government has already committed almost EUR 12 billion, which it is operating, which means that every citizen and citizen is in charge of EUR 15 000 today? Fifteen thousand euros times two million. Fifteen thousand euros means some middle-class car. The four-member family is in charge of one house, and he doesn't even know it. She doesn't even know she's in charge of one house and that this government has entrusted her with more than 12 million. And since 2008, the state has been in debt for 20 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen! And we are being ruled by Alenka Bratušek, who is currently in business, who is proposing that the law should be carried out by emergency procedure, as if the country were being threatened with serious consequences, remedial consequences, irreparable consequences, as if natural disasters were being remedied. Are we really having a natural disaster with this government?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we strongly oppose the adoption of this law. This is not a technical law, as some say, that is a substantive law that gives you the possibility of additional debt. This is a content law that strengthens the acquisition of e-funds, and this is a content law that reduces money to public institutions and thus reduces the quality of public services. This money is intended to be allocated to the Bank's Claims Management Company and this company is expected to recapitalise two banks — the Bank and the Celje Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, why doesn't the government of Alenka Bratušek recapitalise the Bank's Claims Management Company with the money he has in his account? It's said to have more than 4 billion and a half. And then why doesn't the Banks' Claims Management Company buy back the bad claim of these two banks? That would be an option, but no. Moreover, the debt, the actual increase in the interest to be paid – and the interest to be paid across the Atlantic – will have to be repaid. Most of the interest – and today Slovenia is paying more than a billion interest on debt – is paid across the Atlantic. Such a policy is actually unacceptable; it is also unacceptable because, on the other hand, nothing happens in these banks, which are recapitalised by tax money. Nothing substantive happens. The management and management of these banks is in fact the same as before. On the other hand, the government of Alenka Bratušek did so by increasing taxes, recapitalizing banks with these taxes, and leaving everything to run its course. It is high time we said no to such politicians and say no to debt rates, stop new taxes and stop additional bureaucracy. We will not support the implementation of the budget law in the Slovenian Democratic Party of this proposal. More than that, we strongly oppose him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Ms Renata Brunskole will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, which we are currently considering in accordance with business procedures, is a technical law whose main objective is to ensure the smooth implementation of the adopted budget. The changes are necessary for a simple reason, as it was not possible to provide for all the financial frameworks for the stable financing of the country, especially in the light of the fallout of some of the planned funding sources. In the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we will also support some of the amendments or deletions of Article 3 mentioned in the amendment tabled, as we oppose the proposed provision that strengthens the conditions for payments from the budget for drawing up European funds – prepayments, as this proposed provision will make the European funds worse. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where we had the opportunity to discuss in more detail the provisions of the bill, there were also some concerns in the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. We found the provision of Article 4 of the draft law problematic, which increases the possibility of additional indebtedness to non-financial corporations owned by the State. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we have always advocated in the past the view that the additional indebtedness of the country must be very restrictive. We're in that position today, too. As a result, we also supported the Committee's amendment, which reduced the scope of possible indebtedness. At the same time, we requested and adopted a decision by the Committee to hold an in-depth debate on the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks and to obtain information on the functioning and plans of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims (DUTB), with particular emphasis on the proposed debt. Another problematic provision, in our opinion, is the provision of Article 7 of the draft law, which provides that the Government or the municipality, as co-founder of the indirect budgetary user, may decide that the surpluses of expenditure on indirect budgetary users may be directed to the budget of the State or to the municipality, or that transfers may be reduced to the indirect budgetary user with the surplus. During the legislative process, several organisations have also warned us about the harmfulness of adopting that provision. It is also our opinion that this provision constitutes an unnecessary centralisation of decision-making and gives the Ministry of Finance or the Government too much room for manoeuvre. We believe that in this way we will punish those public institutions that have so far operated and saved certain financial resources for the development of their activities or investments. For this reason, we announce support for the amendment that Article 7 of the proposal is deleted. Knowing that there may be problems with the stable financing of the country and all its subsystems, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia declares support to the bill as such, because we want to work for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and we will support ZIPRS for 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance or Government! We oppose tightening the conditions for obtaining EU funds. We know what the real problem is by how Slovenia acquires EU funds, and there have been many problems. Indeed, the European Commission has closed Slovenia's acquisition of EU funds already approved, mainly because the procedures in Slovenia are untransparent. It is 180 million euros and many of the projects that are being implemented today by local communities stand. It is simply not possible to obtain these funds and therefore the investment activity in Slovenia is smaller. Even if Slovenia has the resources provided in the European Union, it is extremely poor, whether or not it has been drained by the Ministry, or whether it has now been seized by the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Government. The jobs are in the Cabinet of Presidents of the Government. For this reason, we propose that the use of funds should remain the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you. I give the word to a representative of the government, Mag. Matei Vraničnik, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to clarify that Article 3 does not limit the use of European funds. Article 3 amends Article 28 of the current Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which refers to the right to payment of advances from the State budget. In the principle of payment of public funds, it is considered that services and goods can only be paid after the services are provided or delivered. Only in exceptional cases are public funds allowed to be used for pre-payment. And when it comes to European projects, Article 28 allows for advance payments. However, we note that individual intermediate bodies, individual beneficiaries of European funds, after receiving advance payments and when the services are provided and when the goods are delivered, do not make claims for reimbursement to the state budget. And this provision, this amendment to Article 28, does not affect anything other than that the beneficiaries of European funds are prepared or that they know that they must – or that they are even more strict than they have been so far, when they are bound only through the regulation, be obliged to actually apply for reimbursement immediately or within thirty days of the delivery of the goods or after the service is performed. There is no correct claim that this provision will make it worse or worse. This provision has nothing to do with the European Union’s retained resources and the retained resources in the European Union have nothing to do with the ongoing implementation of projects at the level of local communities. In the framework of cohesion projects, the Government has allocated funds for the implementation of various projects at local level – in particular projects from an environmental policy perspective – to a total of almost twice the amount that we have from the previous financial perspective. Why we have approved in such a large amount of funds – so that possible unfinished projects or possible irregularities can be compensated with other or additional projects. In this context, it is also necessary to understand the provision of Article 2 which no one objects to, but this provision of Article 2 provides and allows for the facilitation, additional relief, the drawing-up of European funds, since it allows for the execution of public contracts in advance and only after the provision of funds. It takes into account everything that I have said that the purpose of the amendment proposed by the amendment is not in line with the substance and purpose of the draft Article 3 itself, or the amendment to Article 28, which is why we do not support this deletion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I think this amendment should be supported. Additional bureaucracy has never proved to be good. That's not how it's gonna turn out in this case. The matters referred to by the Secretary of State cannot be resolved in this way. So far, it has always been a practice to change the rules of the game in such a way that the procedures have been further aggregated. In practice, this has always proved to be ineffective and counterproductive. This law, however, should remove a problem that we are witnessing today, and this problem is that it does not hold what the Secretary of State here explains that there is twice as much commitment as there is available. It holds one other information – to date, Slovenia has absorbed 44% of the funds from the current financial perspective. 44% in six, six years good. And then, what the government is counting on and what it's planning, it's supposed to be 56% pumping in a good year. In a good year! Even if the 11 projects discussed by the National Assembly and 18 were approved at an extraordinary meeting on 29 April when they were prepared — ready to go — I am talking about water projects in different parts of the country, it would be difficult to do so. This would be difficult to do, but it could be more realistic to make it work. For nine months nothing happened, nine months these papers were laid out in different drawers. When I addressed the oral question to the Minister of the Jews at the end of March, the red light for these projects came within 15 days. It is said that they simply threw themselves off the tables, with selected operators, acquired all construction contracts and acquired all the privileges and entitlements. And for more than half a year, these selected contractors have been extending guarantees; in these cases, only a few hundred thousand, if not millions of euros, will be harmed from this title. And instead of having measures in this law to ensure the implementation of projects that are ready to go, we have additional bureaucracy that will make what is already going to be difficult. This is the wrong way and it is about time to do something because I do not know who will be responsible at the end of 2015 according to our grave estimate for about 100 to 200 million euros of money remaining in Europe because it will not be pumped because it is not done what should be done. In addition, we are at the crossroads of two financial perspectives and if, in theory, it is true that we are running out of funds – which cannot be done because it is impossible to absorb so much money because it is a difficult project that takes years – resources could be used to complete from the new financial perspective 2014 to 2020. This amendment should also be supported in order to encourage the Government to do something where projects could be approved to be implemented, to ensure water supply to people; not to allow Minister Židan to write the right to clean drinking water into the Constitution. That's not gonna help us! This will not help us if, on the other hand, the porous pipes are asbestos, which are already medically objectionable because the country, because that minister does not release the already prepared projects approved by the previous government in the context of the overcommitment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I also support the fact that there is no record of such a restriction as is stated here. It is about ZIPRO, colleagues have already explained where the key reasons are, and I have no problem with the fact that the Law on the Implementation of the Budget would contain that documentation should be provided. I think these hands are unacceptable, too, too. On the other hand, the whole package is as wide as my colleague, Montenegro, has already mentioned that it would also need to be processed more broadly in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, in my opinion. This is the problem that we have in the environmental infrastructure, where we are in 2012, especially at the agri-environment ministry, where 12 active projects were at the time, brought the thing so far that in one year 24 projects were in progress that today 49 projects with green light at the government or at the ministry and 11 others stuck in the drawer. We are certainly at this stage now, when we will have great problems, how to make and spend as much money as is still available this year and a half. I really can't imagine it any different than doing what we have done on the Committee on Finance and on the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, where we have discussed this – and on the Committee on the Economy – that projects should be divided into phases. On the other hand, instead of giving these obstacles to overpayments, add to the ZIPRO, how to make it possible, with additional credit potentials, to allow the country or municipalities to provide their own resources as easily as possible to make as many of these projects active as possible and to partially implement them in the perspective of 2007-2013, in part in the 2014-2020 perspective. You are now engaged in one segment that may be problematic. I can tell you, Madam Secretary, from experience, what the municipalities have been receiving from the office I myself led, that many times the very short period of those 30 days from a prepaid payment, and from the fact that all the documentation is collected; even in my deep conviction, this deadline must be longer, and that the officialship would be a co-worker, even more than it has been so far, and certainly not an inhibitor, as it has been in the past many times in the individual projects. I think this ZIPRO should contain options. If we are talking about the debt of a weak bank, but to give the possibility of being in charge of projects co-financed by the European funds, both for the country and for the municipalities, because by giving the opportunity to draw on this own share in 2014 and 2015, and by building projects at the start of the financial perspective with the shares that we must pay by the municipality and by the state in any case, there could be a substantial number of active projects. This would be an option so that the 550 million available could then be exhausted. The Budget Implementation Act would expect proactive government relations, the participation of all ministries in charge of this, as was the case in 2012, when weekly coordination took place, and when we also had to have a lot of creative discussions, especially with the people of the Ministry of Finance, who unfortunately were mostly lacking in those coordinations, we remained more regular. Many times, however, it was very difficult to find agreement on how to do so. Since it has now been made here, it is no different than that there is a provision that is probably necessary even in the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets to limit a certain period within which these requests need to be made. However, I think that these deadlines are too short, and above all, there is a proactive part of the Budget Implementation Act that would allow these funds to be used.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u30	Your Honor! I see this article of the law on the implementation of the budget as an attempt to control the liquidity of the budget as regards additional restrictions or red tape in prepayments. This is said to have come back from the European budget earlier due to prepayments. In particular, I expected the government to be relatively careful about prepayments and to be designed for real projects and that officials who carry out or monitor the use of money on these projects work in accordance with the applicable rules. There wouldn't be any trouble at all. Now, again, we want to re-regulation, insert some additional restrictions, and I strongly doubt that by doing so, we will contribute anything to facilitating the absorption of European funds, on the contrary. This is not the first attempt when we want to solve problems that should not have been solved by further regulation if everyone was doing their job. That is why, respectable, I oppose this provision and support our amendment, because prepayments or this form are intended primarily for more efficient, faster and easier to draw on European funds. And any additional bureaucracy and limitation of this instrument can only be bad, especially now that we are at the end of the past financial perspective and when we want to enter into a new financial perspective. Instead of dealing with how to get started as soon as possible with the current financial perspective 2014-2020, the adoption of the relevant strategic documents, which are a prerequisite for this pumping, we are going around in a circle of regulation and bureaucracy, which is the cancer of this country. I cannot therefore accept this logic because it is, in fact, very bureaucratic and only in a way of financial nature, it does not cover or deal with the content of many projects that use this prepayment instrument. I would suggest to the Ministry of Finance that, within the framework of the Office, you achieve that the intermediate bodies or those who carry these projects adhere to the rules already adopted, not that by raising this regulation to the legal level, you prove to yourself that it will be better after that. He won't! It won't, because people are the key creator of this. And if you don't get people with such or different systems, and you're going to find responsibility, and you're going to get the need for careful work, that's not going to happen. And only one who has not done his job should know in any disciplinary procedure that there has not been a return to the budget due to overpayments in due time or that this could be done in advance would be solved. And there's another problem with that. Thus we find ourselves again and again in the same logic of additional regulation, which does not bring results. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3. We are moving on to the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this article tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Does anyone want to discuss Article 4? Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes not to grant the country additional rights of indebtedness. This is why we propose deleting Article 4, under which the country is to be in a broader sense – I am also referring to state-owned enterprises, to the ZPIZ, to the Health Institute, to municipal budgets, in short, to anything that belongs to ESA 95. Indeed, the government of Alenka Bratušek proposes that, for the purposes of indebtedness, in particular the Companies for the Management of Bank Claims, additional entitlements are granted at a total amount of EUR 1.1 billion at the beginning, which was later reduced by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and was slightly lower. However, our country owes more than 80% of gross social product. That's a big one. This is largely due to the trend we have experienced in recent years. If we think that our country's debt in 2008 was less than 7 billion – or 22% of gross social product is 22% – then today's 80%, more than 80%, 81% of gross social product is enormous. On this basis, the country is also paying more and more interest. This year we are expected to pay 1.2 billion interest from the budget, where the actual revenue of the budget is limited. In other words, the increase in taxes no longer generates additional revenue. And instead of giving money for education to have educated generations, educated generations, instead of giving money to improve the quality of life of citizens and citizens, we owe ourselves additionally. And we'll pay extra interest anyway. Here, when we talk about the whole state sector, it doesn't matter whether it's a local community, whether it's a company in 100% of the country's property, whether it's a state itself or a government itself. Slovenia, according to Alenka Bratušek, committed almost EUR 12 billion to her government on Monday or so. Ladies and gentlemen, I think, given the number of inhabitants, we are probably one of the countries that goes beyond any global average, and we are probably at the very top of the debt trend and this is not going anywhere. Not particularly because the European Union has already alerted all countries to the problem of indebtedness and has therefore adopted a provision which will enter into force on 1 January 2015. Under this provision, all countries in debt of more than 60 % of gross social product will have to start reducing their debt by 5 % each year. 5% will go directly from taxes and this means, given the difference between 80% and 60%, it is clear, of course, that there will be no misunderstandings. This means an additional burden on citizens and citizens; it means that the budget will probably have to pay between 300 and 400 million each year from this title alone, and this process will start on 1 January 2015. Today, however, we want to make the country even more indebted and even more indebted to future generations, because these debts will not be repaid in the next five years, ladies and gentlemen; these debts will be repaid in the next 10, 15, 20 years. We're talking about generations if we're going to adopt a program today, but maybe never. However, the European Union has also adopted a provision on the fiscal balance of income and expenditure, the so-called golden fiscal rule; and if we link the gold fiscal rule to the debt policy, then we are actually in a situation where Slovenia will have to pay a lot of money in the coming years, probably at the level of one-third of the budget, in order to bring finance into the framework of the golden fiscal rule or the equivalency of income and expenditure. And on the other hand, we're going to have a limited debt, even more, we're going to have to make amends, and we're going to have to pay so much more from taxes. And today, Alenka Bratušek, who is engaged in ongoing business, proposes to extend these rights. Are they running errands? Will future generations pay more interest on the basis of ongoing transactions in the future? These are not liquid transactions, no matter what we can formally define as ongoing transactions. These are the jobs that depend on the future of our families. And in my opinion, I certainly do not have the right to make such a decision and, on this basis, to entrust a company that is 100 % owned so that this company can be particularly indebted. There is also a particular problem with this society. A particular problem because the mother of this society, who is more a stepmother than a mother, is the mother of this society. The bank’s claim management company is 100 % owned by the State and the Bank’s Claims Management Company was unable to carry out an audit and has therefore submitted an unaudited business report to the website. Why she could not perform the audit — because from her mother, the Ministry of Finance or Government, she did not get all the data. And because of the fact that from its supervisor or supervisor of banks, the supervisor of the claims transferred to this company, this is the Bank of Slovenia, it also did not get all the data. And that's why she went public and said, "Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, our results have not been revised." At the same time, because it was not involved in the assessment relating to the transfer of claims because it was not involved and subsequently carried out an assessment of certain claims, 20 claims, this is all contained in the unaudited report, it found that the price or value of those claims transferred to that company was too high. Too high for €91 million. This assessment was made by the European Commission, approved by the Bank of Slovenia, approved by the Ministry of Finance, approved by the inter-ministerial team, where representatives of the Bank of Slovenia are also involved. But they have found that this is simply too much and that the price is too high, that these claims, that the value of these claims, the value of these bad loans or guarantees for these bad loans, that these guarantees are lower, that the value of these guarantees is lower, and that is why they have already lost their first year – book loss if you want, whatever the content already stands for. In short, on the one hand we have a mother, this is the Government, this is the Ministry of Finance, the Supervisor of the Bank of Slovenia; and on the other hand we have this company. And things seem to be out of order here. As a result, this company is now given the opportunity to borrow this loan. However, I think that the Minister of Finance at a financial conference in Portorož said a week or two ago that Slovenia has around €4.7 billion or €4.5 billion in an account and that there are no problems with liquid liquidity. On the other hand, Alenka Bratušek said on Monday that the government would leave EUR 1.5 billion in an account for the next government, in short – this money is quite in the accounts. And I do not understand now the changed policy of the government or the Ministry of Finance to obtain this money for the Bank and the Celje Bank – namely, for the Bank or the Celje Bank – from the Bank's debt management company; for the NKBM and for the NLB, the Government has directly recapitalised these two banks from the budget. In short, there is a change, a change that is very neutral, and if it has no financial implications, welcome. However, it covers and contains, includes additional indebtedness, which we strongly oppose. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia could recapitalise the Bank and the Celje Bank by recapitalising the Bank's Claims Management Company first. However, the bank's claim management company will recapitalise the Bank and the Celje Bank with this money. The recipe was made for the New Bank of Credit Maribor and the New Bank of Ljubljana. Now there's something going on here. The management of NKBM and NLB will still be directly under the intervention of the Ministry or Government. The Bank and the Celje Bank will, as proposed by this law, be under the influence of the DUTB. After all, we could have done it for everyone. After all, DUTB could also raise capital on the foreign market; it does not need to be in debt. In short, there's a lot of chance. It's the easiest thing to do. And DUTB is the state sector. According to all the methodologies of the European Union, the DUTB is the same as the State budget, it goes to public debt. And there is no explanation for this in this bill on the implementation of budgets. There is no explanation for the strategy as to how Slovenian companies and Slovenian banks will be recapitalised. We strongly oppose the country's additional indebtedness in the broadest sense. It's actually unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that we owe ourselves by means of an emergency procedure. And in the context of an emergency procedure, we don't have to, or we don't think that we don't have to, or someone thinks that we don't have to make any excuses about all this. But this is where it comes back to the whole strategy of what will happen to Slovenian banks. And what the DUTB will do to those companies that are now with it in its balance sheets, which, of course, can sell, can manage them, can guide them. In short, he actually has it here. And that's not clear. And if this coalition on the one hand has not adopted the law or has not adopted the solution to the state holding law to work – and it does not work because there is no classification or anything else, there is no consensus on who will sit in the supervisory councils, and nothing happens there. On the other hand, there's a lot going on here, but without the National Assembly, one word that the DUTB is in charge. But behind there are a number of signals about what is actually going to happen to these banks and these companies. They're signals, but we don't know that. They probably know a lot more who will manage these companies that are currently in the DUB balance sheets and will eventually buy them. And whether or not it is desirable that, based on the fact that DUTB bought certain companies at a low price, here we have to say that the discount was 70%, two-thirds – in the balance sheet there was a company worth 100, the DUTB bought it for 33 units – was reprivatised by the same owners if you also want by those who screwed up these companies via DUTB. Is there any kind of control around here? Or then we recapitalise these banks to give credit to those who once were tycoons and will repurchase these companies at a significantly lower price because the state has already reduced that price. We don't know that. Here we only owe DUTB for the next billion 100,000 euros, through which the whole new processes, privatisation and so on are being carried out. This law also provides for the adoption of this law by introducing additional duties, introducing additional duties or centralising them because the Property Tax Act has fallen. The real estate tax law fell because it was contrary to constitutional provisions in five articles, not one, it fell completely. And it is unacceptable to make up for the loss of these revenues by additional borrowing. In this respect, I believe that the law on the implementation of budgets should be rejected and sent back to the Government. And I think that nothing bad will happen to the country if it is not accepted; citizens and citizens will also live, with or without this law, well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 4? There are many of you, so I suggest you sign up for the debate. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Good-bye! This means that the words of the President of the Government, which she has already given several times in Parliament, even when the budget is not valid, do not hold; she does not tell citizens and citizens the truth. Colleagues and colleagues, that's incomprehensible what you're doing. If you remember, sometimes I even raised my voice in such debates. I picked him up because I was hoping something would help. You can imagine that I also gave up — nothing helps, not with beautiful, not with evil. You've decided to destroy this country. What our ancestors created for 14 centuries, you will destroy in battle for five years. What you are doing now by changing the ZIPRO and raising opportunities, i.e. parallel DUB players for additional debt, is simply unacceptable. This is about as if the father can no longer be indebted, but the son, daughter or one of the children will go to the neighbor, to the relatives, to what I know where, and he will be in debt, but it will be said that the house is no longer in charge. That's not true. The task of the DUTB was to collect claims, then sell it as best as possible and eventually put it back in the budget. It can't all be because then the DUB wouldn't have it, but at least partly it should put it back in the budget. Who? Who? Minister Chufer? No, citizens and citizens, all those who pay for it! They pay higher taxes. Minister, this year you raised them to the ceiling. How would citizens get back? Yes, in such a way that this would come into the budget and certain rights from health, education, social, infrastructure and so on would remain. And at the same time, we'd be paying off the loans. Don't you feel embarrassed that no one in this government, no minister, no Prime Minister, has ever made a debt recovery programme. We're in charge of 30 billion! In the old Yugoslavia, when it fell apart, we were significantly smaller, and there were ten times more of us. 20 million, and now there's only 2 million of us. Well, that's impossible to survive. Please stop. You have no right to do what you do. You really don't have it. You'll still be in power for a few days, running errands, and working so those DUB boys will do their job, too. Minister, please step in front of the pay phone and tell us where you see the sense that DUB bought some 200 apartments to buy some parking spaces and so on. Tell the citizens and the citizens! Tell me, we don't know, I'm an MP, and I don't know that. Do we really not have the right to know what's going on with the taxpayer's money? Or the Members we have been elected do not have this right. Who are you, who are you to hide this from us, what kind of gods are you?Oh, my God! Our children of grandchildren who are not yet a year old today will pay for all of this. We can't know anything. All these recapitalisations that you're doing, I actually have a feeling, not me, that's what people call me, protecting the tycoons. Yesterday, at the time of the adoption of the law, with the possibility of some credit to top athletes, that they could side with each other, you opposed them. And then it was said that someone was kicking someone's ass, not true. You're doing worse with citizens, and you can't do that. Stop, please. This dutb has become a real mongrel. What's going on there? We've had a committee, we've got dream wages, we've got millions of wages, we've got supplements, plus 10,000 euros of wages. They're already thinking, "where, in five years, we can't do anything, where, we'll get rich here for the next 20 years." The task of the DUTB is to dispose of those companies whose debts have been assumed and then sell this on the market, normally. Not in such a way that you additionally owe citizens and citizens. This Slovenian proverb still holds that crows do not turn off their eyes. And that's what's happening. Minister, why let yourself be dragged into this collapse if you have no sins from before, why do you allow it? Say no, you won't do it again. We will support this amendment alone and in the Slovenian People's Party. And DUTB is able to drive substantially differently, correctly, transparently and so on. Would it not be a minimum task for the DUTB to report once a month to Members and Members of Parliament? We don't need everything; in writing, tabularly, what we took, for what money, what we sold, a financial plan. You get a financial plan at the bank for 5,000 euros in credit; but of course you don't get it, that's not possible today. What you're doing with this country right now, you just can't believe it, you can't believe it. On the other hand, it is not for the transport of children; on the other hand, it is not for the support of exporting companies; not for the use of subsidies, but only for the possibility of obtaining rematerial. They're in charge of why they're already in charge. Because of the tycoon stories mainly in 90%; the minister, we also found this on the committee on banks, what was going on. Of course, the parliamentarians we have elected are accountable to the people; you are not, you have come to positions not because of yourself, because the electorates have elected us and a part of the Members has been in the coalition and has put you in a position. Tomorrow you will fly away – I don't mean any of us personally to understand each other – but that's how it happened, and that's how it's gonna happen again, you're going to fly to Europe or whatever, and you're going to leave the burning ground here. Minister, I expect you to answer my question. Please tell me, not for me, for the people. I'm not asking you like Franz Pukšič, we're elected by the people, we're going back to the elections tomorrow, and we're going to have to say. Journalists report that today the National Assembly will accept this and that. Nope, dear journalists, crying, there won't be a National Assembly, some of them from the National Assembly. Some, however, are alerted to irregularities, but of course this is not reported and that is the problem, including the problem. To do something with the Members. Tell me who you're hoping to be against taking over all those assets, just like they did in Ireland, which are involved in these stories. I didn't tell them to take it, to prove in court how they got to the millionth estate. Let Igor Bavčar prove how he got to the property, that you won't say that I'm just beating left-handed like he's falling somewhere on the right-hand side. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Leave it, you know I don't know where he is, because he's always been in the hallway where he was. I'm sorry. That's what they are. They're not left-handed, they're not right-wing, they're the parasites of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u35	Nevertheless, Mr Pukšič, remain with the contents of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u36	I will therefore support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party; not by any means the possibility of additional indebtedness, even after the decision taken for EUR 400,000 on the Committee on Finance. You even wanted 800,000 euros. Minister, please answer these three simple questions to citizens, citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. This article suggests that indirect users of the budget of the State and non-financial corporations in which the country has a dominant stake may be liable for an additional EUR 800 million. 800 million sounds nothing very special and nothing very big, but 800 million euros is 400 kindergartens built in Trzin. It cost 2 million to build a kindergarten with ten departments, 800 million, 400 kindergartens, for each Slovene congregation of two kindergartens, we are talking about such amounts here today. While on the committee we have accepted – you have adopted an amendment that has reduced this to 400 million, which means that we are only talking about one more kindergarten for each Slovenian congregation. We are really talking about large amounts here; let us see how this is justified in the explanation of the law. In view of the fact that the DUTB will have to be additionally indebted to the public in order to carry out its tasks in 2014, it is also necessary to increase the scope of the possible indebtedness of the state-owned non-financial corporations. And that's all the explanation for that 400 or 800 million euros. I must admit that I am not satisfied with this explanation, and I would ask for a broader, broader explanation because we are aware that the banking system is important for the country. The banking system is very important and the stability of the banking system is also very important, so we have approached the rehabilitation of the banking system and appropriate laws have been adopted. At the end of last year, we received an external independent assessment of the situation in the Slovenian banking system, and the appropriate steps for this rehabilitation have already been taken directly. That's when I asked the board if that's what we have now, whether we have everything we need to rehabilitate the banks. And the answer was positive. Today, however, we are witnessing another new proposal and, given the reasons, we do not even know whether we have finished or not. Here is the time to ask ourselves this serious question and see how and what happens next. And on such a proposal, I would expect the Bank's Claims Management Company to provide its explanations. Why does he need this additional guarantee if it is intended for him, as mentioned in the bill? I would expect a report or a proposal from the Bank of Slovenia on this. This is about the resolution of the banking system, but we don't have any of it. I would expect an additional explanation from the Ministry of Finance on this matter, but all we know is that DUTB needs to be further committed this year. All right, let's go with this extra assignment. The law is proposed to deal with it under an urgent procedure, which, according to the Government, means that the consequences of possible rejection are difficult to correct. On the other hand, they are difficult to correct, or rather difficult to pay, even additional debts, so that we weigh between the hard - to - fix consequences of one side and the other. Here I would really ask for an explanation as to whether these hard-to-repar consequences also apply to this particular article, whether the possible fall of this article will really lead to difficult remedial consequences, and what these consequences are; or whether what is to be said about this article and about this 800 million, is what we can read in the material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you. Does the Minister want to answer any questions? Dr. Urosh Chufer has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I think the things we set up last year are right to end them normally, as we intended. In fact, this article of ZIPRS increases our room of manoeuvre, so that roughly as we did last year's proposed article in ZIPRS, which we have never used, which referred to the repositories of transactions, is also in this case whether the situation in Slovenia has already changed in such a way that the DUTB can still be in debt without the State guarantee. At the beginning of the year and after a few months when [[Incomprehensible]] Pretty quickly downgraded, I thought this might actually happen. At the moment, with political instability, I believe that the State's guarantee for the exchange of bonds intended for the replacement of a bad bank will continue to be necessary, as this may not be the case. However, it is very likely that when the new government is formed, whatever it is that things will calm down again. At that time, it will be possible to make it possible for DUTB to be in charge without the State guarantee. And that's why this article is needed, meaningful and welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you. Anybody else want to talk about Article 4? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much. On Monday, in the National Assembly, we listened to the President of the Government, who was talking about the country being in debt for 11.9 billion euros in a year. For €11.9 billion, including with the support of the National Gazette, there will be no misunderstanding. That is why some of you experience this catharsis very late. You haven't experienced it at 12 billion, and now you're experiencing it at 400 million, and that says a lot about your credibility. EUR 12 billion is an amount that not only threatens future young generations, which clearly leaves this country, literally flees because they realize that there is no future in it, but also threatens the safety of those who now receive such or other benefits from the state budget. Above all, this information threatens the broadest group of people, given the specificities of our pension system and the pension fund, where in recent years we have not been able to manage this money effectively. The one who managed the pension fund, in particular the Pension Insurance Office, was not capable of effective investment, management and so on. A large part of this burden will be in the future in the country, in the budget, one or the other. And this information on this debt and the fact that the government of Alenka Bratušek has increased this debt by 12 billion euros in a year and in three years of the Pahor government by 8 together, by 20 billion euros, tells us that this country will have very serious problems in ensuring the payment of pensions in the future. And that future operators will have to be very good hosts if they want to ensure what needs to be done. In order to avoid misunderstandings – pensions have been earned, they have been earned, due to ineffective management, due to tycoon ownership, mainly by the elite of the left political province, they have been stolen from many people. At least one pension per month for each person; because it is illogical that in one country – which borders on us about the same culture as industrious people as in that country – a pensioner, a worker who worked the same working period at least once or twice as high as in Slovenia. The last time we were in Koroška, people were asking how it was possible for my colleague to get three times the pension across the northern border, and we were both doing the same work, doing the same good work, doing the same work. That's a fact. But even though these pensions are relatively low, there will be a very big problem with these data in the future to provide them. And any additional debt is a bigger problem. And even this 400 million euro is a number that makes this path more difficult, so no more debt can be accepted. Instead of this law and with additional debt, the government should today come to the National Assembly with an implementing law for the entry into force of the Golden Fiscal Rule, which we have adopted, we have placed in the Constitution, but there is no implementing law, and it is already more than half a year late. And if the president hadn't stepped down, she'd have been charged constitutionally for breaking the law. And it should be resolved if, of course, the National Assembly acted in harmony with what is stated in the Law. If this implementing rule had been adopted, we should have started to do so and it would no longer have been possible to come to the National Assembly with such a law because it would have substantially deviated from what we had committed a year ago when we entered the Golden Fiscal Rule into the Constitution. This government, which no longer has any legitimacy, no credibility, not even any more moral entitlement to citizens, comes in recent breaths with an additional debt. That perversion is even greater, however, says the prime minister's statement Monday on how this government will leave a billion EUR 500 million in the budget. And the servitude of most of our media sums up this statement and most do not ask about its depravity, because it misleads the Slovenian public. He deceives people and lies in their faces. A billion-and-a-half euros of money made in international markets, for which high interest will have to be paid and for which many young people will have a stolen future. So why is the government coming two days after the Prime Minister said we have a billion and a half in the account, with an additional 400 million euro debt proposal? Therefore, why did not she find out from this money those or 8 million euros for the subsidisation of student and student tickets by the end of June, with the question of the legitimacy of this measure being raised because the budget is valid for the whole year and the funds must be provided for the whole year. Otherwise, it is necessary to suspend the Minister immediately and place someone else who will be able to bring these things together and add up to 1 plus 1. So, on the one hand, lying to the Slovenian public about the billion and a half money we have, which the future government will have to start working. On the other hand, EUR 8 million had to be redistributed under the heading Investment maintenance of railway infrastructure, which has already been maintained in such a way and has been said to be provided somewhere else if we do not want to crash by the end of this year. So now we're going to provide a fictional guarantee from an item where it's not, but we're going to take something back from this item to another. This proposal is a completely irresponsible action by the government in recent breaths. However, it has been shown that some have overlooked, albeit a little too late, and the reason for this omission is probably a pre-eminent time and not a concern for citizens, as they would probably like to show here. Another important thing is that most of this money has gone to banks and to repair these past liabilities and debts. What, on the other hand, has been done to determine the responsibility of those who caused these deep-seated diseases, how has this property been protected to this day, what has been done to secure this property? Here, when we were faced with the fact that this hole was more than 5 billion dollars, it was said what would be done to protect these claims. Nothing has been done until today. We've seen some pirate, some prosecutor who's been talking about how politics hasn't done anything in the last 20 years to chase - watch out - the policy of a bank tycoon. Who should pursue them, if not prosecutors and judges, let them judge them. Instead of dealing with undetermined days, undetermined times, we could deal with concrete actions, because it is not millions, but billions of euros in a known place, at a known time, known amounts. On the list of transfers of claims to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, there are many of these: DZS, Mr Petan, transferred EUR 26.5 million. What did you do to secure this transmission? How much of this will be refunded, out of 26 million euros? ACH, Herman Rigelnik, almost 50 million euro transfer. What did you do to secure this transmission? How much of this will be refunded? Which of the procedures has been initiated against gentlemen who are still owners of a number of companies and who have you extended their inefficient management in such a way that you carried out these transfers to the DUTB instead of discharging them and sending them to prison? You did this on the back of people. And you have done so by endangering not only future generations, but also those who have guaranteed rights from more than 40 years of work – modest rights, most of them 500 or 600 euros of pensions or not. You can't fool people on the one hand with some ideologies, and I don't know what else to do, but on the other hand, you literally take from their pockets the money that's bloody well earned because you don't do anything to secure these claims. Adria Airways, a state-owned company, is probably not worth losing words for. But since she has widely shared discounted tickets, free tickets and so on, and also many political moralists – those who are now born every day, some who like to moralize most of the time, at their own place, and they do not know where to live before their own threshold, it is only necessary to say that 50 million euros of state money has been pushed by the Pahor government into this company. And to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims transferred almost EUR 30 million. Probably because you've been following the maximum economist, in narration, the secretary, who has been president of the Adrie Airways Supervisory Board for many years, that it's not Adria's job to make a profit that's an efficient company; but that it's her job to drive passengers. You know, with such logic, gentlemen of socialist provenance, who has nothing to do with the socialist mile within the EU, because what is here a socialist mile is something else entirely from some normal European socialists, you will not get far. [[advertising from the hall]] Those in the light of whom you speak most of the time, and for whom you are most concerned, you are working against those. And this action against these people is — including this law that we have on the table today, which is why this amendment needs to be supported and this additional obligation deleted. [[…]] No additional duty may be accepted, especially at this time. Instead of this law, the government must come; last but not least, Alenka Bratušek, the prime minister on the way out, said that one of the things that would happen before the early elections, would also be the implementing law for entering the golden fiscal rule into the constitution. We're waiting. It could have happened by now. Instead of this marriage, we could have this marriage on the table today. In banking secrecy and in concealing this data, which we have heard a lot about in the last year of days, we see what can happen in more regulated countries than our country. We see what happened when a Swiss bank hid data for a number of years and, of course, paid a multibillion dollars in fines. We are also witnessing something similar in Slovenia. At the beginning of my term of office, I addressed a question to the Minister of Finance with one question, which was not even so important, but it showed this spirit, which reigns in this so-called banking secret because it is hiding places because it does not want to be clarified and because it does not want to be held accountable for those responsible for this bank hole. I asked about a teambuilding that the employees of this bank, to which the state of billions of euros of tax money had been transferred, and about the cost of this teambuilding of these employees, who were driving with some of the sailing boats in the Gulf of Piran, then had a large dinner with the maritime goodness and so on. Of course the bank paid for it. The bank paid for this so-called education, upgrading. From the money of those people who have 500 or less euros in pensions, and I should not have gotten information about how much it cost. Because Mr. Secretary said to me that I had nothing to be interested in. I asked on behalf of two million people, not in my own name, not because I would be frustrated because of this; because these people have the right to know who they will pay every month from their pension and from their salary in the form of increased taxes — their loans that they have not repaid to you. They have the right to know, and sooner or later they will find out. However, not in the way we have it here today in this law, when the government intends to use an additional EUR 400 million to cover these costs. Because with these 400 million extra dips of DUTB, all these things are just going to go under the rug. It is therefore necessary not only to adopt this amendment but to reject the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Get ready, mag. Andrej Vizjak. But Mr. Pavlisic has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. With regard to the debt, Mr. Chernač, you have correctly determined that the principal has gone to the banks. On the basis of a law adopted by the previous government, in which, if I recall correctly, you were a minister; and with the administration, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, which, at least mostly, was appointed in this same previous government. And I'm not telling you that anything was done was wrong with this, because this problem had to be solved. But what I'm telling you is that now you're deceiving that this is the fault of the current government, which is everything it's done, it's stopped screwing up the problems under the carpet, and I'm telling you that. 'Cause it's some kind of incredible hoax in here. This is all on the basis of the law that we have adopted together in the previous government and is going in the right direction. However, the second part of the debt is on the basis of the payment of previous debts. Moreover, a large part of the budget deficit, which alone represents a new debt, is due to the need to pay interest on these past debts. Well, that's probably clear to you, but you just have to spin this way. When the data on the bad credits at the Bank's Claims Management Society, which happened on our client's proposal, were revealed, unfortunately not completely, but we are also working on it, and to mention that you were against this disclosure, you voted against the law that opened it, there was a wide debate about whether the larger hole was caused by the left or the right side. Whether the right hole was caused by tycoons or church bells. And only one thing is clear about this — we have neither the National Gazette nor the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u46	I must say, I did not fully understand this replica. Okay, it was said. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u47	You have a procedural question, Mr. Chernač, not an answer to the replica. I can't let a replica into a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u48	In the context of this procedural question, I would like to ask how this was a replica of what has been said now. One inaccuracies have also been expressed regarding support for disclosure in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u49	Mr. Blackach, there are no replicas on the replica, so I have to take your word. But you can apply later and discuss and give answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u50	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm asking you. Given that you are holding a meeting, why did you not warn the Member that this was not a replica, but that it was a debate. And I must say, in the context of this debate where the Rules of Procedure were somehow abused [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u51	Mr. Chernač, once again, I remind you that you are abusing the Institute. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u52	I didn't quite understand whether Mr. Pavlisic was himself. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u53	I'll take your word for it. [[…]] Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You don't know where to start. I must also respond first to what has just been said that we were against the disclosure of debts in banks. I take it as such an obvious, all these years I have been fighting to stop this practice of protecting these tycoons, this financial oligarchy that has divided and hid billions of Slovenian money. And in that debate, when Mr Virant said in December that everything would be clear, everything would be revealed, and then it turned out that two-thirds of the debts remained hidden in state banks, one third moved to the Bank's Claims Management Company. And we still don't have one record of who approved these loans. Who approved, because I am convinced that those who approved the loans received a portion of that money back to their accounts because they were approved without cover. It was a deliberate robbery, an organized robbery. And Madam President of the Government, in his resignation, and the whole government knowingly protects all of this by means of this law, continues to do so. It even increases its debt, indirect debt again, the more covert debt it assumes; its government has committed 11.9 billion. The great farce is what Mrs Bratuškova is telling us — now more rarely comes — in her answers to the questions of the Members of Parliament, when she is primarily making fun of the citizens and keeps looking forward to the past and does not want to talk about what her actions are and what she will do to get out of this crisis. And now you can see that in the original proposal of this law, there were a billion 100 additional debts, more covered. At the same time, this authority does not do anything to put the amended law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin into effect in a court of law. You know, with so much money, it's all illegally acquired. I hear from someone yesterday that a close relative of interest in Banka Slovenije bought 1 million shares of Telekom because there is now work on being extra earnings. No, because I'm not saying that the minister needs to know, but he probably knows, it would be wise to react to the fact that the law enforcement authorities are also heading this way, where the money comes from, where the money comes from. Mr Minister and your government, the government of Mrs Bratušek, who here declares himself Ivano Orleansko of this country, the savior, is sinking it with all possible means, perfiding the country in a perfidious way and taking the future of the young people of this country. This has to be done for once! And I hope that, with the help of the public, we will achieve this in this country, in the upcoming elections, that these perfidious games will no longer be supported. Two new party presidents are now working. One of them had four jobs, Mr Cerar, he's always dragged them; he still has an office in this house, and we see him very rarely, but with the President of the Republic, I don't know where he has four jobs, but at the university, and now he's going to be the savior. So, Mr. Soltes. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u55	Mr Jerovšek, I suggest you focus on the amendment to Article 4. I wouldn't call it a noun.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u56	Yes, it is a focus that this people will no longer allow these frauds that they have committed with Positive Slovenia and with the National List in previous elections to be repeated in the new elections. That's the point! That's what people need to know, that we're going to watch what's happening here every day when Members of Parliament sit down! Every day is a different order of seats! One day there's one with one client, the other day there's another with the client. And this is what the new "resurrections" Mr Cerar and Mr Soltes will do to us – the same thing will happen. That's what people need to know! This is why it is primarily a call for people to overlook what they are trying to deny by means of state media and dominant media to convince them that there are now new rescuers on the scene. There are no new saviors! Those who were now saviors were in charge of the state; if we add that to what you now wanted, we will round up to 13 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, followed by Mr. Joseph Horvat and then Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This increased quota for the borrowing of indirect budgetary users or non-financial corporations is intended to recapitalise two banks and something else in stock. So this quota, which you originally wanted to raise from a billion 200 to 2 billion, was directed primarily at two banks, namely EUR 500 million for the Bank of Celje and EUR 150 million for the Bank of Celje. This recapitalisation is to be carried out by DUTB — Bank Claims Management Company, the so-called bad bank. Dutb would be in debt and would invest that money in these banks. In short, the direct link between this amendment is, of course, with the functioning and also with the situation in the DUTB. Dear Members and Members, not only the Slovenian public, but also we have no idea what is going on in the DUTB operationally, why decisions are being made and why these decisions are not different. But we'll be accountable to the people, they'll ask us. In fact, they're going to ask you, an existing coalition, why these things are operating like this. I simply cannot understand that we have great tolerance for these banks, including the Banks, which, by the way, is headed by Mr Jože Lenić, former politician, Member of the National Assembly, Mr Jože Lenić was a Member, now a banker. He authorised a number of subordinated securities holders who promised them that investment in subordinate bank bonds was a great investment, that nothing could happen, financial companies and people were buying it, the result was that they lost everything overnight. Worse still, the result is that we will now have to give money with the State's guarantee to recapitalise this bank. And where is this gentleman? Instead of being in jail, he's still sitting on the bank! And I have a fundamental problem here – we are saving banks, we are saving businesses, and people are sitting on the same chairs, and those who have failed are saying that those who are part of the problem will now be part of the solution. Here I ask the Minister how the measures against these patients, which we save with public money, do not take or take measures to replace administrations, new administrations, compulsory administrations, crisis administrations. Why do not responsibility be imposed against those who have driven the matter so far that we now have to rehabilitate it by public means; not only by public means, including by private means, because those who have invested money in these banks, thinking that these investments are safe, are now at the expense of money. You've caused a lot of trauma and so on. A typical example is Nova Kreditna banka Maribor, where you disqualified shareholders, 100 thousand small shareholders who had shares purchased on public sale, were released overnight, this is an intervention in property. How you handled this, whether you have taken this constitutionally correctly, will be judged by the Constitutional Court; but I think it was unconstitutional. You can cancel the stock value from 100 euros to 1 cent, but you can't take this share. You can cancel it, you can devalue it, but you can't take it. And that's the problem. We therefore have a problem that you constantly come to Parliament with such ZIPRO and other solutions where you owe the Slovenian future taxpayer, not the current one. That's what they're going to pay, respectable, not the ones we're now gray, but those, some of them aren't born yet, they're going to pay for it. And you, so benevolently and without any serious questions, bless every debt because it seems justified to you. Dear Minister, it is very humiliating how you wrote this ZIPRO, and you wrote in to estimate that the Company for Bank Claims Management will need more money, so it needs a higher amount of debt, end, peak. I won't give my son 10 euros if he says to me, "Daddy, I need money." I ask him what it's for. I'm just a little curious about what's gonna happen. You have not even tried to write down in law what the quota of 800 million additional duties will be necessary and used. It was only from the Secretary of State on the board that we twisted this into these two banks, which I originally counted. Not only was he and he's an ex-politician in Abank, and we're saving this bank now with public money. It is very similar in the New Ljubljana Bank. There not only did you have Mr Kramar, whom we all know to be the total political cadre of the late Janez Drnovšk, then you also installed elected Members at the head of this bank. And then you wonder why the banks are where they are; and why we're actually charging these taxpayers. And that's not true, the one you're saying is that what's happening with the bad bank now is actually due to one law that was in the previous bank. The operational implementation of this project is a result of your decisions and the source of the problem is the functioning of this institution today. When we read in a newspaper today about the most paid people, we see that the most paid people in this country are in DUTB. They get about 20,000 euros a month. Then there are directors, where almost no one exceeds EUR 10,000. But DUTB 20 thousand euros, with gentlemen coming here, of course we need translators, even though we have Mr Mavek, who is the non-executive director of the bad bank, he could tell us something. No, gentlemen and translators are here explaining where the source of our problem is and the source of our solution – and come on, taxpayer, we're going to squeeze you a little bit, give us more euros, give us more euros, 800 million now. In fact, you've changed your mind overnight that it doesn't take $800 million to get 400 million. Who proposed 800 million?Oh, my God! Just like that, a little bit on stock?Oh, my God! That's a really big problem. And there's something else that's killing me here. Never, when we talk about these additional debt quotas, nobody ever talks about when we're going to get due and how concrete this is going to look. The honourable Minister, you know, European regulation says that we will have to phase out the excess public debt. Everything above 60% will have to be eliminated. That is to say, we will already have our public debt on good 80% of gross domestic product this year, in the coming years there is no theory that we will at least stabilise it on this number, but we will increase it, and only the question in which year we will reach 100% of our public debt. Nothing is done to limit the expenditure, the current expenditure of this country, even when we look at the final accounts of budgets in the past and when we look at the budgets adopted for the future, current expenditure is stabilised at about the same level, that is about 8 billion euros. No one has made one serious effort because it is not in line with your policy; this is the Prime Minister of the Government, who is going to know God where he is, has repeatedly said that they will not limit spending in an additional way. We're getting interest on that little deal with the ZUJF. Just as our interest increases, the financial effects of the ZUJF are, in fact, to be eliminated, because the debt is higher, the interest will increase and the running expenditure will increase. And tell me in this economy that's under tax, how we're going to start blaming our country for once. Only through the sale of this property, which is at DUTB or by the disposal of some companies, will this not work, because I do not know where you will get tens of billions of euros from state-owned companies by selling your shares to the DUTB to reduce our debt. We need to reduce our debt by at least €10 billion, or we will have to do so when we are in this debt relief mechanism. Even worse, my respects, you don't control the current budget either. The fact that something like this happens, such as Mr Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure, has given us in May of the current year that he does not have the money to carry out legal obligations. How is that even possible? Such a minister sits in the government. Its responsibility under the Public Finance Act is to carefully plan its part of the budget and to provide for sufficient resources to implement the legal obligations that this Minister has. Otherwise, he has little or no idea why he is sitting in these, unless Mr Omerzel is on a special mission by Mr Golobič in this government – how to squeeze public funds into private pockets, which has been often seen in past governments, where Mr Golobič had a more important word. [[…]] And the first thing they started to say when Mr Omerzel came along, he said, because he had nothing to do with the Pigeon, he'd already started defending himself this way. Now the picture is bright and sharp when we look at it. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that these debts and similar manoeuvres are still the last breaths of how to spray into the subsystems of this society certain public resources to ensure some kind of service and some peace to someone who is already in a well-paid service. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party are opposed to such an approach, so we will not support any additional debt quotas. Last but not least, these gentlemen at DUTB can also start selling something. I think that certain bad loans that they've gladly given to a moratorium, as well as insurance, could be sold. I'm talking about apartments, a lot of things -- people actually want this, and they would buy it, even if some normal or crisis were the right price. And these gentlemen will draw this story from a bad bank indefinitely. The question of when are they going to start selling something, and the question of when are we going to see or get these Euros, which are now being pumped into this company by thick tankers. In fact, I am glad that some of these last tasks, even in the decaying coalition, have found that this is no longer the case. I'm not gonna read anything because it's better for someone to miss it late than ever.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we have and apply conservative positions, principles when it comes to financial or budgetary issues of the country. We advocate that spending should be adapted to what has been created. And if we create too little, then we have to reduce spending; that means we have to save. I raised hope several times, not least on Monday, when we spoke to Minister Uroš Cuffer through an oral question that Minister Cuffer intended to save. At the hearing, he was analyzed and evaluated as a conservative financier. Unfortunately, it has already been proven that he certainly did not have sufficient political support in the government to enforce his possible conservative principles. And from what I have said about our conservative principles and views, it is clear that we will give support to the amendment to Article 4, the amendments to the ZIPRS law for 2014 and 2015. We strongly oppose any further debt – whatever, at any rate, even if the interest rate is 0 %. Remember the event, which we recently watched on the parliamentary television channel, when Dr. Boris Pleskovic, as advisor to the Peterlet government in his cabinet, accepted Mr Walter Wolfe, who said: Boris, I would like to help this new country and would like to give 60 million, I think, dollars without interest credit. No interest money! Mr. Pleskovic kindly opened the door and said good-bye to him. The lesson of this story — let us also fear those who want to lend us money interestless, for sooner or later they will give us an account. And why do I care about this extra debt? Because the budget for this year has begun to fall. If we look at the results for the first four months, for the first third of this year, we see a deficit of around €722 million, or three quarters, allowed or planned in the budget documents for this year. In those budgetary documents that the European Commission has also considered to be good. At this assessment, the President of the Government, I remember, was very proud of the speaker. These were the documents that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to send to the European Commission under the new European legislation, the so-called twin or six. However, it is true that all Member States have received a positive assessment of the budget documents for this year in this first round. The European Commission probably had no idea how the government of Alenka Bratušek intended to implement these budgetary documents. Today we see that we are at one third of the year on three quarters of the planned deficit. In fact, what was the biggest impact, which expenditure had the greatest impact on this enormous deficit? Yes interest, about 600 million, will have to be paid by the end of the year for some more than 400 million. So one good billion euros this year for interest. Here's the problem, and from here comes the fear and our concern about why we continue to be indebted. And speaking of the Bank Claims Management Company, I agree with mag. Andrey the Visians who say we have no idea what's going on there. But I can say we know what's not happening. In fact, we do not receive any reports to implement Article 33 of the ZUKSB Act – the Act on Measures to Enhance Bank Stability. I implicitly spoke about this in the position of the New Slovenia Group. Article 33 speaks of the responsibility of the members of the bank management and supervision bodies and the supervisory authorities of the banks. The first paragraph, if you allow, says: the members of the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company shall be liable to any suspicion of criminal conduct by members of the management bodies and members of the supervisory authorities of the banks and the supervisory authorities of the banks who are aware of the performance of their jobs, in particular when reviewing the credit cards referred to in Article 11, paragraph 9, of this Law, immediately inform the competent authorities accordingly. For the time being, I do not know of any case in which the authorities, the management board of DUTB, would implement this article. And here's the problem. Therefore, in the position of the Group of Members, I called on the supervisory authorities, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, the Disclosure and Prosecution Authorities and the Courts, and I called them and told them that it was up to them to answer, however, the questions raised by Members and Members of the National Assembly on the ground. And these are: When are you going to catch and lock up those who twisted our bank hole? When you take away their assets and we save the financial state. The parliamentary investigative committee led by colleague Marko Pogačnik is also simply not responding. On the contrary, those who come to the hearings, and there were quite a few, are from Members, and indirectly from two million citizens and citizens, are making a fool of themselves, telling them that it is actually a natural phenomenon. There was a natural disaster that twisted the bank's hole. There will still be a need for a thorough debate on how to go forward with our banks in 100% of state ownership. Would it not be best to sell them for one euro, even now that we have recapitalised them? I don't know, I'm not an expert in this area, but I do, and I know that we are in a group of eight countries at a global level, where the country has the largest share of ownership, actually 100% now, over the banking system. And that's bad. And it's devastating for future generations too. That is why I would like to see that in this mandate, which now expires in a clairvoyant way – why it expires, of course, now is another issue. Perhaps not so much because of that congressional event and Mr Jankovic, but maybe this mandate is expired because our budget is falling because the deficit is enormous. Perhaps it is because the government is in fact eloquently violating the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia because it has not yet drawn up a fiscal law, and perhaps because of some matters that we do not know about at all. But we don't know anything, and in fact it was nothing, and there were no measures by which this government would accelerate economic activity. And when the President of the Government boasts that we have had positive economic growth in the last quarter of last year, I ask her two months ago through an oral question from the Member State, Madam President, what are the measures of this government that have been taken and raised economic activity? There was no answer, so no answer. I conclude by reiterating my support for the amendment to Article 4, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u62	Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we discuss the money we will give DUTB for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, we should have in mind, above all, the words of a prominent Irish financier, his interview was recently published in the Finance Journal. He said that the institutions that had taken care of the resolution of the financial banking system in Ireland had in mind, above all, how to reimburse taxpayers as much as possible the money that taxpayers had given to remedy the banking system. That was his basic message. As we listen to today’s debate, it is possible to draw from this debate the fact that in this Chamber we all feel that the institutions – especially the DUTBs, who have to worry or who have to help fix Slovenia’s banking system – are not caring enough or having too little in their goals and ideas about how and how the state, i.e. taxpayers, will return the money that was given to the banks to recover. When it comes to borrowing, things are relatively simple and simple. We've been spending over our borders lately. Clearly, this does not go on indefinitely, but it is only a matter of time before this thing stops. The sooner she stops, the easier it'll be for people. Of course, it will be much more difficult for some political parties, but once again I stress – before we stop these excessive indebtedness trends, it will be easier for people. If we ask ourselves, what has been done in this joint mandate, within the mandate of this Parliament, to stop these trends. Perhaps the only document we can draw, the famous ZUJF, against which so many words were spoken and so much ink poured. I strongly hope that now that we are entering a new period of time, when the parties will in one way or another compete again for the favor of the electorate, that people will understand that the parties who oppose any reforms are doing the greatest harm to the electorate. And that every serious politician who goes on the electoral campaign at this time can practically promise nothing else that the famous Churchill promised at the beginning of II. World will, when he promised only blood and tears. What is essential more serious policy in the current situation, unfortunately, cannot be promised. But I am aware that all things will now be promised, from the planting of flowers to the heavens on earth and more. However, I hope that there will be a clear reflection on those who will decide who will sit in this House in the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We are now rounding up the round of discussions on the amendment tabled to Article 4. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see an interest in the debate, so I am opening an application for a debate on the amendment tabled in Article 4. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The first one has the word, Mr. Only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The problems our government and our country have been having since yesterday. I will not support this amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 4. In fact, this article would be deleted. It is worth recalling how the great economic crisis occurred in 2007 when the mortgage market broke in the United States and when the US government did not act as it could and left the famous Lehman Brothers bankrupt. The world’s stock markets were so violent, and no one imagined that the process that began seven years ago would overwhelm the whole world. It is also important to recall the period 2004-2008 when another coalition and another government were in power. And I think that the original sins and the problems that lie ahead of us today and that we are trying to solve them take root at that time and that they were further deepened by this great economic and financial crisis. It is right to look at the economic balance of the then government coalition between 2004 and 2008 and what the new government in crisis has inherited. Our country was heavily indebted to the interbank market between 2004 and 2008. Here I think of most loans for controversial managers' buyouts, which go back to that period, and loans to Darsa for the construction of motorways. After the elections and the appointment of the then new Pahor government, it turned out that there was no money to help. The budget was due to a number of tax advantages – the amended Income Act, the more favourable Law on Taxation than the Income of Legal Persons, the abolition of the Tax on Wages – and at that time at the annual level the budget lost almost EUR 500 million. According to the Ministry of Finance, then these pre-election mints, which will not be in this mandate, but the pre-election mints in 2004 were significant. Free food for students, free kindergarten for another child, paid public sector reform, pensions were increased by 8% – this added to the 300 million budget expenditure. The budget deficit was at least minus 3% prior to the Pahor government's performance. In addition, the change in tolling, such as that of another measure by the then government, has reduced the shift to vigil revenue from 150 million to 80 million euros. Inflation could then be lower if Janša's government then listened to the opposition and domestic and foreign financial experts and institutions. In addition, the tax reform, by abolishing 4% of the housing problem relief, has caused almost 150,000 taxpayers to end their housing allowance and the highest level of income has been eased by income; the middle and lower classes have significantly less burdened. The so-called economic growth has been based on increased indebtedness since the beginning of 2005. The most pronounced increase in gross external debt in 2007 was for the incredible EUR 10 billion, which means that 6.8% of GDP growth at the time was based on unhealthy foundations. The total external gross debt increased from 15.3 billion to 39.8 billion euros in the mandate of the then government and the then coalition between 2004 and 2008. As a result of a change in funding, for example, the Motorways Company was already in charge of almost EUR 4 billion at the end of September 2008, as financing for the construction of motorways at the time was based mainly on foreign debt, thereby jeopardising the financial sustainability of this company. At that time, Darsa’s problems, which are still present today, are rooted. The use of European funds has also been poor since 2005. Not to mention this data, I could also say that if we add to the poor use of funds, a small proportion of foreign direct investment, which was very low at the time, the untransparent sales of Mercator from 2005, then we can find out that the government and the government coalition, which ruled Slovenia 2004-2008, left a catastrophic balance in the economic field, which was further deepened by the economic and financial crisis, which the then government did not want to recognise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. Mr. Grimes, do you have a replica or do you want to discuss it? Mag. Andrey Shircelj, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Such deception, as Mr Bevk has now said, is not yet. That's a lot of gear! The first issue, Mr Bevk, on tax reform in 2006, was then the Social Democrats in the partnership for development. In early September 2006, a tax reform was presented to Mr Pahor, on 6 September, I think it was on Gregorčič. You can look at the documentation and there Mr Pahor agreed with and supported the tax reform, with a reduction in income, a reduction in the rate of corporate tax, by abolishing the tax on wages. I think he belonged to the Social Democrats at the time, unless you've already given him up. And with this, you boasted in public that you supported the tax reform, which is what you did. That's what I'm talking about. Even as far as Križanič's calculations are concerned, how would it have been if there had been and what would have been revenue if there had been. I'm sorry, Mr Bevk, you're not worth half your money because these calculations are unrealistic, unprofessional and misleading. The following matter, as you said, quote: "Our country was heavily in charge of the interbank market." Do you separate the external debt from the debt of the country? Probably not. You probably think that someone who is the Prime Minister of the government today or who was then the Prime Minister of the government can grant some credit [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, he can't! Mr Meh, you could have done this, but none of the politicians today can grant any credit. It's pure provocation, what you're doing right now. This is pure provocation, which you are now doing because you can't because we're talking about credits given by banks to the population for baby carriages, for cars, for houses and so on. On the other hand, we are talking about the loans that the State is renting as a country. And if you just don't know it in all parliamentary history, how long you've been here, if you couldn't learn it, then it's your business, but you can't fool the public about it. The deficit was not 3% at the time either. That's not true, Mr. Bevk. That's not true. Look at the data. The budget was balanced at the time. Look at 2007 and 2008! You're deceiving! And that's unacceptable. And then the gross external debt went up. Yeah, define what a gross external debt is! Gross external debt is the entire debt of the population, the economy and the country. And for the country [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u67	Mag. Spreader, three minutes for the replica has passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u68	I'll be right with you. And the country was then under the responsibility of the President of the Government, and for the banks and bankers the supervisors and supervisors, where Mrs. Alenka Bratušek was also in NKBM and Banka Slovenije. And that's all, everything else is a delusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Gradually, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I have a procedural proposal that not only in the case of Comrade Shirtzl, but also in the following cases you strictly take into account that the Rules of Procedure clearly state that the replica is only 3 minutes long, and that you also measure it, so that everyone will have the same time at their disposal. Besides, if you step on a cat's tail, it's a conundrum.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Just Bevk. Of course I agree with you. And when it's been three minutes, I'm a mag. It also spreads warnings. And as far as I could tell, it was really 20 seconds before he finished his sentence. So I can say he took my warning. Mag. Ivan Vogrin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The budget is one of the most important documents of the state, government and parliament. Therefore, I find it gravely unrealistic, irresponsible to accept it as an emergency. We should take it on a regular basis, think carefully about what we write down and how we will implement it. Especially because the urgent procedures of 23 years of independent Slovenia have brought us to where we are. "We have not come far, we are at a promising start," wrote economist Dr. Jože P. Damian, "or just a little bit ahead of him." What is the characteristic of this budget or novelty, changes: additional regulation and additional bureaucracy. That's not good, that's not good solutions. An extra charge. I've talked about this a lot, and you know why people are so easily in debt for millions, billions? Simply because they were never in a position to earn two euros on their own from budget preparers. That's the reason. Then the proposal also includes punishing those who are well-governed. If budget consumers have surplus resources, we'll just take them back into the state budget. It's the opposite of that. This is similar to what we did years ago, when I was mayor, that those budget users who don't spend money get for so much less next year. You know the wrong values, or should I say, instructions, they judged that. Then penal policy, section 74 of the law speaks of criminal policy. It means that those who do not submit a financial plan to the Ministry in time will be punished with 2 000 500 euros. I ask, colleagues and colleagues, how many thousands of euros are we going to punish the Government for not proposing a law on the entry of fiscal rules into the Constitution. For how many thousands or millions — each minister, the President of the Government and so on. We don't even have the same criteria. How we will ask someone, like Parliament and as Government, to respect legislation, if we do not respect it. Parliament and the Government should have already entered this in the Constitution, a golden fiscal rule. Why don't we sign in? Because at every decision, every marriage, we have a fig in our pocket, and we think, because we will, because we're going to fool them. At the end, you can see where we came from. Of course, bank holes were caused not only by bankers, but mainly by politicians. Politicians, ladies and gentlemen, have created a bank hole, especially for politicians, and of course for bankers. I believe that the amendments and most of the amendments proposed would make sense to accept that this law would be at least as much so as to be acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you. Old wisdom says if you don't learn anything from history, you repeat it. And just before that, a colleague of the SDs made a perfect representation of what Churchill once defined that paper and microphone in Parliament really did transfer everything. Now let us look at some numbers that are unrelenting in this regard and, of course, he deliberately silenced them, overlooked them, or turned them upside down. First, the only government in the last period under which public debt fell and continued to grow was the government of Janez Janša in the period 2004-2008. The public debt is that of taxpayers with their money. I will say this again, it has decreased during this period and was somewhat more than €7 billion at the end of the mandate. At that time, the outline of the economic crisis appeared and it would be expected that the next government, Borut Pahor's government, would lower costs. But she did the opposite. With the first budget rebalancing, it predicted an increase in spending for almost a billion euros, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this was the beginning of a red-hell journey. Once again, at the end of 2008, the entire Slovenian debt with the inherited share of the total Yugoslav debt was just over €7 billion. Then two transitional lefties in their governments – Borut Pahorje and Alenka Bratušek – added EUR 20 billion to this. Do you know how much that is?Oh, my God! This is significantly more than the common debt of the former Yugoslavia, which fell apart because of it. Only two governments – Borut Pahorje and Alenka Bratušek, everything else is almost negligible in comparison. Today, it amounts to a total debt due to these 20 billion added by the Governments of the transitional lefties, the total public debt of almost EUR 29 billion already. Almost €29 billion. Do you know what that means? That every child, when playing in the cradle, is ruled by a transitional left, in which case now Alenka Bratušek, is placed in the cradle of 14,000 euros in debt. According to homework, the kid was "started" and burned down a good middle-class car that the kid's gonna pay for, and he's never gonna drive in his life. Every four-member family this government will set up 56,000 euros in debt, either for one house in the White landscape or in Prekmurje, or for one good apartment today, in which this family will never live, and it will have to pay for it, because you don't know any more than you can spend. You have proved this to be the best at that point, which you have previously discussed so recklessly. When the global crisis began, instead of adapting to it, you increased your balance, the first under Pahor, public spending for almost a billion euros, anticipated an increase in revenue and debt. And from there forward it was the way to red hell of red numbers under red governments; and then you swarm under red flags, so it's all in the same style. People of God, this is where we have to end. I don't know who proposed €800 million first, but then €400 million in debt, which means it's either under the thumb or so little in stock. And, of course, this is not how to lead a country responsible. It is therefore necessary and in the public interest to adopt this amendment. Just as it is in the public interest that you have not proposed, we point out, and as a result, you are consciously violating the Constitution, the constitutional law – this is a golden fiscal rule that would finally put these appetites on hold after a crazy debt and thus burden the next generation to the detriment of joint development.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 4 and the amendment tabled? If he does not wish, I shall conclude the debate on the amendment tabled to Article 4. We are moving on to the amendment tabled to Article 5 tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? He does. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! In Article 5, we propose an amendment to paragraph 2 where it relates to determining which groups are subject to 1% of the employment restrictions in the public sector. We have proposed that the calculation of the total number of employees should not include employees whose salaries are financed from, I will say, not those of net budgetary resources. This is said to be from the sale of goods and services on the market, non-disclosures for the provision of public service, funds received, funds received from the European Union, funds from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, funds from the public works system, funds from research projects and resources to remedy the consequences of greed. In this way, we want to enable activities, in particular in certain areas that are key, such as the health sector, which is fully financed by the CFSP, to function normally. This is about 1 thousand 160 employees. Since these are not directly public funds, such a restriction could pose a major threat to the performance of their activities, especially because this constitutes a necessary condition for these personnel to be able to perform their duties as people with appropriate qualifications. We therefore believe that this restriction is not necessary in this area and we propose that it be eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. Mag. Leila Hercegovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll just say that Positive Slovenia will support that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If he does not, we are going to move on to Article 7, which includes three substantively identical amendments, which we will also discuss together and we will also vote together on them. These are the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, the Social Democrats' Group and the joint amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He wants to, so I am opening an application for a debate on the amendments tabled to Article 7. Let me also say that, given that we have a direct vote on this point, we will then proceed to the vote immediately after this article. Now we have a debate. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. We do appear to be in a pre-election period, but the seriousness of our decisions must be maintained, and that is why I am speaking. We are proposing the deletion of this article by the Social Democrats, which means that this article is deleted in this proposal. I'll give you an example from my home environment. As long as I was mayor of Nova Gorica, in agreement with the healthcare community, we left their surplus to the health care home, saving that the money had also been tied up and had reached an amount of EUR 5 million, which had been earmarked for the investment. The investment of the new healthcare home in Goriška Brd is beginning and the land issue is finally settled, the land problem is resolved and the health home in Novi Gorica will be implemented very quickly. I cannot agree that anyone — or a city congregation that does not want to take this away — would be so that this money would remain the way it is; but if the state were to take it now, it would be really unfair. Furthermore, there is the same problem with the home of pensioners, which improves from the funds they have saved, and these are the means of the protectors. The facility is extremely old, obsolete and so forth. It is said that some investment maintenance for the benefit of the protectors of this home of pensioners and would now, if it were more of a change, have been taken away, it would not be taken into account. That is why I think it is most fair that those who are saving, who are able to behave rationally — for example, by obtaining funds from Italian patients or whatever I call it — have saved these funds, not least with a very rational number of employees in the administration. They are intended exclusively for investment, by no means for pay or for any other superstandard. That is why I will vote in favour of this amendment and also ask for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I would add two concerns to what my colleague said. The first point in relation to Article 7, paragraph 7, is that, in fact, we are also entangled in funds that are not directly the result of the surplus created on the basis of budgetary resources. Many of the indirect budget operators have created these surpluses in a different way. They created this either at the expense of good market management, and they also created this at the expense of not actually being funded by the budget. If we take the homes of pensioners, about 60% of the funds come directly from the pockets of users or their relatives. A further 35% of the resources of the CFSP are those that could possibly be budgeted. In short, it is those who, by themselves or by the help of relatives, cannot pay the care in the homes of pensioners, but it is the congregation that pays. On the other hand, we have public health institutions, which are fully financed by the ZZZS, this is not the money of the state, this is the money managed by the insurers and users. And in that sense, we have serious concerns. The third thing that seems even more important to me is actually flying to all — us, the former, the present government. Since 1992, we have a law that has long survived. He's talking about how it's managed in public institutions. The fact is that we should strengthen the autonomy of public institutions, promote their responsibility and encourage them to create sufficient funds or even certain surpluses that are reinvested in the core activity by rationalising. Now what are we doing? Now we punish those who have exercised good rulership, and we want to deprive them of their resources. If some kind of selection were possible, as I say, that those who are 100% only funded from the budget, and these surpluses are created in a strange way, one would think that exceptions are registered in the law. However, since this is not possible in this short period of time, we believe that we are doing a significantly smaller injustice by actually deleting the entire provision of this Article. Maybe one more thing. Of course, at the time of the preparation of this marriage, I was not just thinking about something not, but what could be done. I suggested that in the field of health care, where we face such major problems of financing activities, consider a solution that could bring money into the health system or could solve the problem of a health insurance company or the ZZS. I didn't even get an answer. I think the proposal is very constructive. I didn't say it myself. Many others said it. It is the idea of abolishing supplementary health insurance, where they literally roll in cash and surpluses and, of course, share high wages and other ratings, and nothing to anyone. This country does not even ensure that article 18 of the intervention law, which speaks of surpluses created in previous years — if we recall, under the 2006 Bručan Act — is used to return to insured persons. Obviously, there is no headache, too much money, and we cannot redistribute it; on the other hand, we would take it where it is unjustifiable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. We are talking about an amendment to Article 7 of the ZIPRS. This amendment shall take the surplus and be transferred to the budget of indirect budgetary users. It is, in my opinion, a non-professional proposal or an unfair proposal that does not take into account once again the fact that homes for older and special social institutions are not financed from the budget. In nursing homes, it's about the funds of the residents of these homes. In these homes where the tormented people raise funds for the most urgent maintenance works that the state does not take care of as the owner of such facilities for example, the government is taking money from the weakest citizens and proposing that this money be returned to the budget. At the same time, the country on the other hand covers billions of bank holes and does not think that this money should be taken elsewhere. I have to say that it bothers me that there are still people in these banks who are responsible for these bank holes and that they are still paying rich rewards for their own – say under the terms “successful” work. I therefore propose that we, my fellow Members and colleagues, vote against this Article. I propose that this article be deleted, not only because it is unconstitutional and illegal, but mainly because it is unjust and lifeless. This is about protecting the interests of the weakest citizens, protecting the interests of activities that care for these people under increasingly restrictive conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u86	Good bye to all of you! Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State with co-worker, Member of Parliament and Members! We have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that Article 7 of the ZIPRS be deleted. 7. Article 7 refers to the introduction of a new, 73rd paragraph, which deals with surpluses over past years' expenditure in indirect budgetary users where the founder is supposed to be able to; otherwise it reads "it may be determined that this money is collected into the budget of the State or municipalities which are the founders of these indirect budgetary users, or not." As long as there is "may" inequity, it is said that the matter is not constitutional. Secondly, since it is mainly public institutions, in particular public health institutions, social institutions, health institutions, even pharmacies, perhaps even societies and the like, which are indirect users of the government’s or municipalities’ budget money, there would be serious injustices for those who, if I say domestically, can manage, do good, and spend this money on purpose. Unfortunately, most hospitals don't have that kind of luck to have a positive outcome, so they're in red numbers. However, there are certain hospitals – and representatives or heads of these institutions turn to us in this way, and I see that also other Members of the other parliamentary groups who have listened to this; and I am happy that we will be united here and that we will collectively destroy this 7th article – who, for God's sake, for God's sake, leave us the money they somehow carry year after year, they use it for purpose, because this money is not only, as we have heard many times before, budgeted, but from domestic suppliers in homes, but from those who donate, for example, for medical appliances, is too much needed; some deserts are also making a lot of money in the market for this purpose. This is the kind of money that individual institutions then run, and they are mostly good at managing. This would reward those who are eternal losers, even though they could behave rationally and raise funds deliberately. Thus, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that, as I have seen, this will also be supported by other parties. We've already heard some practical examples of what might happen here. I've been working alone for over 25 years at the Red Cross. The Red Cross is also an indirect budget consumer and would thus reduce the subsidies of municipalities; the Red Cross is the one who is well-governed by regional associations, transferring funds from year to year, because it has to have something on its reserve so that it can jump in where assistance is needed immediately. People also collect membership in local Red Cross organizations. In my case, they have a collection of about 20,000 to 13 local organizations, and then this money would go somewhere into the budget or the grant would go down. People would no longer have the will to voluntarily raise money for the people most needed. I am so sure that this article will be lined up because it would cause great economic and social damage. People would no longer be willing to be well-governed, especially those leading in these institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Now it is Mr Franz Bogovic, followed by Mr Tomaž Lisec, then Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mrs Marija Plevčak and then Mag. Matthew the Vranic. Here you go, Mr. Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Vice President. We have also tabled an amendment in the Slovenian People's Party proposing the deletion of this article. I am pleased that, both from the perspective of the groups of Members and from the debate, it is clear that there will not be any majority of the National Assembly in this article, as it has insisted on a real estate tax, in a similar way to the principle we want to introduce here, as the government has wanted to introduce in this article, to take on those who govern those who work. I have also been approached by quite a few directors of public institutions, in addition to what has been described in the media. With his permission, I will quote Mr Tomislav German of the Ljutomer Health House and his associates. In 2011, he performed in a health care facility that has no other conditions to manage today than he had at the time. Back then, the health center was in red numbers, minus 90,000 euros. Over the course of three years, they covered this deficit from the past and very carefully managed and prepared 600 000 for the investment they intend to make in this healthcare facility. Such an article, as prepared by the government, could easily raise such money — caring, economical. This is an approach that has made the organisation of a health care institution much more flexible than it has been in the past, to take steps towards public procurement, running costs and in the way that minus 3% of business per year have done plus 7% in terms of income and accumulated these 600,000 euros. Similarly, I received a call from the director of the Gallery Bozidar Jakec, Mr Bojan Bozič. By his permission, I also mention that name — similar. I know, I was also the mayor of the then joint municipality of Krske and Kostanjevice. It is known that, with good work, good events, it can always obtain funds to ensure that exhibitions are donated by the economy. I am very dismayed to ask who actually wants to be encouraged by this. Mr. Tomislav German went even further. He says that he already has in his own possession, says health care, problems, because some simply find it very difficult to listen to the fact that he was able to master himself in a health care institution, but in other institutions they are in the negative. It points out that it will actually be to cover the deficits in the Clinical Center again and so on. It's a completely non-stimulating approach. I know it is difficult for all of us to be able to frame these budgets around, but we certainly must not go this way, so that we can simply end those little bits of entrepreneurship, the economy that some institutions are implementing today. What has now been done is essentially a blow and a mockery to all those who know how to rule; and it is simply a message of such a article of this law, as much as you have money, that you lose it as quickly as possible, for otherwise we will collect it from you. I am therefore pleased that the majority support is for this article to be deleted. True, though, it is a challenge for all of us to seek real savings. I am firmly convinced that it is possible to find savings, and when I speak of health care, we will certainly not be able to see them in such a way that the President of the Government is also acting as a minister responsible for health. This Ministry, which is headquartered, does not have directorships for individual areas, really raises a similar question, as it has been asked earlier in how to uncompromisingly increase the debt quota and turn that money into a bad bank. To whom it is in the interest that such an important segment, such as health care, is actually headed, without leadership, and that it is fully functioning. As the crown of these anomalies or this non-government, let us then chance to give the ministers, the mayors, simply to look at which institutions have the resources in the accounts and simply uncritically confiscate them. I think it's a very wrong step, I've seen it immediately when an unconstitutional law fell, this real estate, this rumor – we're going to pick up the surplus. No, that's not the way it works. We must take these measures systematically and take steps. But here we come to that serious, responsible work, to see if any administration of individual schools can be combined. It's possible, I don't know what standards to change, where we run into serious and real problems. We have a hard and responsible work ahead of us, but certainly not such handiwork, which also limits to constitutional dispute again. I am pleased that the majority in the National Assembly have met with the wisdom that we will not employ a public institution, just as we have owners of properties from last summer until early spring, that some 10 million euros of money have been spent and that the whole of Slovenia has dealt with the solutions that this same ministry has drawn up, and all the constitutional principles that have been possible have been clearly and eloquently violated. I think that such a product is just another proof that we do not have a master in Slovenia. The master should be the Government and this government obviously does not have a master, because the master thinks of a day more than simply how someone will collect money from which account and how to go abroad; and also a little for a reserve, for a larger manoeuvre, as was said, for additional loans. These manoeuvres have already been too much and it will take serious and economic work in this country if we are to get out of these problems that we have gone into inadvertently.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! First, I would like to point out once again that the same amendment has already been tabled by the SDS Group on the home working body. When I read the magnetogram of this meeting, this amendment was voted against by four members of the SDS and 11 members of the opposition. That is why I very much welcome this wisdom, conversion or probably a multitude of electronic messages and calls from colleagues, who you or you will decide today that such an article, as prepared by the Government, is pointless and for many institutions – perhaps for kindergarten, school, hospital, health care, other institutions, whether owned by local communities or by countries – can also be executed. He is even more doomed in this sense because I believe that many of the leaders in these institutions want surpluses. Whether they are more involved in market activity or they think about something else and learn how they will be as effective as possible; and then the ministry or this government comes along with a bill that says - thank you for being good and now we will take it away from you. But we'll take it from you as we can. He can give one to another, but he can't give one to another. With this article, the government has given itself a discretionary right to take. As we know that the property tax has fallen, I am sure that everyone with positive surpluses, except perhaps a politicalally dedicated manager, will be granted this measure in these institutions if this amendment is not adopted today. In short, if we know that, for example, in the ministry of Minister Cernač, we have provided European funds for the energy rehabilitation of public buildings, including public institutions, now this government completely reverses the picture and says, "Perhaps, you may have saved, invested either for the energy rehabilitation of buildings, or for some other investment, or otherwise engaged in market activity; we will collect it for you. Whether it was the one who was saving, whether it was the users themselves, or, I'll say, the benefactors, which is the key point of all Slovenians these days, or whether it was the super management ability of the leaders in these institutions. But you have chosen to beat the poor: but those who do evil now walk only on the wages. And you'd put it all in the same pot. In short, let me finish. Fortunately, there is a pre-election time and also a coalition can listen to the opposition, but I believe in the ground as well; and I support or co-propose such an amendment that we have already proposed in the SDS Group on the Committee. Therefore, thank God for wisdom or for conversion, so that we can all once again say stop to the government and stop the non-life solution that the Government has brought at the last moment of this government to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. I see there's still a wish. Then Mr. Ivan Grill. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u92	Well, you have to tell people that people understand. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the coalition in the composition of the parties known, has proposed to the National Assembly a law to commit the crime – I will say. Why? It was easy for public institutions, schools, kindergartens, museums, nursing homes and so on to steal all savings — legally, of course. That is to say, for those of us who are in great social distress, for whom people pay for caregivers, let us say, in nursing homes. In the place where I come from, Šmarje pri Jelšah, I know that the healthcare home has some savings because this is what the principal has created in recent years. So that would be lost on your proposal. This place is also home for the elderly. Since many elderly people themselves are doing many jobs that would otherwise have to be paid, I suppose this institution also has a plus. And that's what the government of Alenka Bratusek would pick up. Now let's take a look at the procedure. At the time this law was introduced, you were, of course, in authority with full powers. You've been counting on the government for another year and a half, so you've proposed such a law. When we discussed the matter on the committee, there was an amendment, interestingly, an amendment to the SDS, which said, "No, this can't happen." You hit him, you voted against him. What happened, Mrs. Meglic and Mrs. Popot? I would almost cry when I listened to you, especially to your social sensitivity, which happened to you from the time of the committee to today. In fact, you were there against the deletion. Your ministers, Mrs Kopač, Pikalo, Židan – Mrs Meglič, these are ministers from your party – and Mrs Porotat – Mr Erjavec, who I do not even know, voted in favour of the Slovenians in place and around the world – have voted in favour of taking this money. You voted to take this money. What happened now? Today, though, such an emotional performance would make a person cry if he did not know you. But today you are all for this and have subsequently tabled such an amendment as you used to be against. You see, now you're all for not taking it. Why are you doing this? Because there's gonna be an election. Otherwise, you would have supported it because your ministers also supported it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Meglic, Mrs Poropat, this is called domestic hypocrisy. The hypocrisy of the first kind and the transfer of the first kind. Therefore, I will not commend your conversion, but I will say that you have acted hypocritically. And to conclude, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u93	Dr. Gorenak, for the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u94	Of course, an amendment. I am talking about Article 7, which is also supported by members of your party, Madam Vice-President. I believe you will change your mind today, and I ask you to change it. To conclude, I had not been able to speak before, Madam Vice-President, when Mr Bevk spoke because I did not have a word. It's just that according to the Rules of Procedure, and I didn't even want to ask you to raise my hands. But I'm going to respond with two sentences to what he said. Mr Bevk, when I listened to you, how you discussed that between 4 and 8 was the greatest debt of this country, and you were talking about that for your washing machine, my refrigerator or TV, someone who took it on credit, the government of Janez Janša, you know, this work of yours reminded me of some past times. I thought I was reading. When I read the magnetogram, I'm sure it'll be such an impression that I'm reading a report from some, I'll say, state security associate who's a little bit of a liar. I believe you've kept your manners from the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Replica wants Dr. Andrei Črnak Meglič and then Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Popot.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I must say, I find it difficult to expect the tears of Mr Gorenak. On the other hand, I would say that in my performance, I put things on the line. I have used my arguments as to why we want to table this amendment and what we are doing with it. I've said many times that it's impossible to answer demagogia with arguments. It's impossible, because someone's going to drive their own way until the lie becomes the truth. By the way, in this session I was not present and Mrs Porotat was not present, and in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, we have the right of Members to vote as we vote. Believe me, I would also vote without your calls and attaching a medal to the amendment to this article as I think it is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr Gorenak, you don't have to brag, you don't have to build up and talk in conversion. I have the right to make a decision on the basis of arguments. I said what I meant, I said how to vote. And of course, I am not a member of the Finance Committee, and I did not vote there. My right is to assess what I think is right and what needs to be done. Not because of the election. And, Mr. Gorenak, I can make you cry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs. Maria Plevčak, for her mag. Matthew Vraničar, and then I will open another round of debates, because I see quite a few wishes after the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Clearly, we are in the pre-election time that some in such an inappropriate way often collect their points. I think we lack the decency and appropriate culture in our discussions and relations between Members, regardless of customer affiliation. However, with regard to Article 7, I would like to say the following. 19. Seven. In 2012, the Government, at the time, adopted a number of decisions concerning the Public Agency Act and the Law on Institutions. Among other things, it states: direct budget users must exercise more control over the prudent use of funds in the direct users of the budget of the countries under their jurisdiction. That is to say, if it is found that some institutions have inadequately high savings, I say only inappropriately, then it is necessary to take control here. There is no need to amend this because we already have conclusions on this. Indeed, the surplus that some have created, we know, because the text has already said much, so homes for the elderly, health homes, some hospitals; some may have been familiar with the fact, but they have created a negative situation. Here I am convinced that the move made by the State or Government is inappropriate for this time and inappropriate for some institutions, because the law is prepared to discourage people who are willing to do fair, transparent work and not to harm anyone, even to create an adequate income. However, I certainly do not think that we can tell all those mentioned that we will not collect; however, that the articles we have already adopted and the controls should be stepped up. We have inspection services, we have controllers like that and different ones. I think that's the kind of move that we can find out where the suspects are. And there's a lot of other people in the field that's bothering you. The fact that, since I am in Parliament, it has not been by the State or the Government or the competent authorities of any authority in the previous and present government that there has been nothing made to disclose the loans that have been granted. So many times it was promised, and unfortunately it didn't happen, even though you say we were in the government. Of course we were, but others can influence it, not just me as a Member. That is why I have already said in my position that we will vote on our conscience in our Group of Members. We know, however, that we cannot harm those who cannot pay home for pensioners; where certain funds have been saved to modernise something, I think it would be very inappropriate. But I must say that I will certainly support this amendment with great joy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. We have over a thousand 600 indirect budget users in this country. Public institutions are the main part of this number; others are indirect budgetary users. For these indirect budgetary users in the state budget we allocate a billion 777 million, of which a billion 600 for public institutions. The health treasury spends another billion 700 to finance the public health institutions' activities, because they are not financed from the state budget, but from the health treasury. In the review of the operation of these indirect budgetary users, it was found that they had created 270 million savings in the past, without the year 2013. It is true what you said in the debates. For very different sources and for very different reasons, these savings have been made. These indirect budgetary users shall operate according to a series of laws, by a series of acts of establishment where each act of establishment, each law shall specify separately how it may be at the disposal of the surpluses created. When the ministers and I discussed what possible savings could be made in the field of transfers to indirect budgetary users, we had to take into account, in fact, this data, the amount of accumulated surpluses. And the provision added to ZIPRS by Article 73a only means that the founder or the main financier is given the possibility, not the obligation, but the possibility that when he sets the volume of transfers for this year to an indirect budgetary user, he will also take account of the accumulated surplus in the amount of that transfer. Whether he will take them into account, or whether he will take them into account in a way that will require the indirect budgetary user to return the surplus to the budget or to the finances of the one who is the main funder of such indirect budgetary user, or to reduce the transfer due to whether he leaves the accumulated surplus intact — is a matter of every particular individual case. It is necessary to look at a thousand 600 indirect budget users. For such a multitude of entities operating in such different areas, it is not possible to lay down a more detailed rule than that set out. There are certain criteria in the law itself, and above all what one of the discussers has also mentioned is important: it is necessary to govern. And if we want to rule, those who are obliged to rule must also have certain powers, including certain discretionary options, of course under legally defined conditions, and these are also provided for by law. And just for a little while, because the nursing homes have been mentioned many times. Let me mention that, for these budgetary users, this provision certainly cannot be taken into account, but in particular not to a large extent, especially because it is not financed from public funds, but from non-disclosure funds; and therefore, here is the transfer, except in some exceptional cases, it is not. And in the same way, it is necessary to look at each individual budgetary user and see if there is any possibility of action in this way. This is not a measure that could be implemented by the Ministry of Finance at the same time; it is a measure that gives the competent ministry the opportunity, if the state is the founder or the main funder, to consider this when considering how it would be possible to rationalise consumption in this area as well. It was entirely planned that this measure could save up to €40 million, which means 2.5% of all transfers, if we consider only public institutions; however, if we consider transfers to all indirect budgetary users from the state budget, even less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. As I see the desire to discuss the amendment tabled by Article 7, I am opening a report to the debate. Seven panellists have been reported. The first is Mr Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Did I understand correctly, Madam Secretary of State, that we are talking about 240 million surpluses, which means that this is a higher amount than the real estate tax. And if there's so much surplus, then it's clear what we can do about it. Clearly, there will be no support for this change in the National Assembly. However, I would suggest to the government that it may be made more transparent to deal with this fear, perhaps unfounded fears that savings will be raised, that the funds earned be collected, that funds will be collected for the purpose of collecting funds from different people, and that it will give us a sense of where these figures come from. Then perhaps there will be a greater willingness in the National Assembly to take such measures. In fact, if we are talking about a huge amount of funds lying somewhere that are not meant for anything, it is certainly to see if we could spend it better, for some other purpose. Once again, I urge the government to work more transparently here and to give us a clear picture of what funds and where they are going, and then we may also find agreement on such changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much. All of these institutions, which have made some savings in this way, as this law has foreseen, that they actually want to steal, have probably made a great effort by the managers or directors of these institutions to reach these surpluses. I know a company that has operated for a number of years with a loss that was also needed by the municipality; however, after the change of leadership, this situation has begun to improve and today records significant savings. This is the money he wants to invest again in order to improve the situation and situation in this particular public institution. And now, with such a law, we'd like to collect this money for a long time. I agree that among all these, there can be 600 institutions, as mentioned by the Secretary of State, including some that have irresponsible and non-transparent money. However, there are other mechanisms already in place to ensure that the money that is simply unexploited, which is to be used in a non-transparent manner, can be properly sanctioned and also arranged not to do so. Wherever the majority owner is the founder, or the state or congregation, the majority of the representatives of the State or the congregation have in the saints. Each institution must submit a financial plan each year and also a financial report showing for what purpose the funds have been spent and for what purpose they will be spent. Why is it not sanctioned and prevented from any malicious use of such funds through these mechanisms, which are already in force? But not now those who have done well to save, some have already signed contracts or some projects to rehabilitate their institutions, in this way also to collect. It also shows this anomaly of this law, which was also made by emergency procedure, that many institutions failed to respond because they did not actually have time. And thank God, and it probably goes to them, that in these few days, all of them, perhaps in agreement, have gone to all the parliamentary groups, in particular the coalition, whatever it is that they have, or that you have now become a little clever, overlooked, and that this amendment, which we have also tabled on the committee that has been rejected, now again, has been deleted and this nonsense and great damage has also been prevented. And one more thing, such a solution would certainly have a great deal of damage in the future, too, that with various financial and accounting tricks, all the surpluses that they now have would have been shown in any way otherwise, and in particular they would have spent irrationally, so that at the end of the year it would probably always be the result of a 0 or a loss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Leila Hercegovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The amendment's proposal is a ghost. Mrs. Vranič tried very nicely to explain why. But your explanation didn't really convince me. Why? Because I have a feeling that there's one law law that leaves a lot of different things in between, and it's a matter of how an individual interprets it and does it in practice. Why? This provision is controversial about the functioning of public institutions and other public service providers in the field of social protection, as we have heard, but also about culture, education, sport and other public agencies, public funds. Why did we even come to this? Budgets in the country are getting smaller. The state has forced institutions, either state-owned or municipally owned, to do more commercially. And market business in some institutions has led us to have surpluses. Of course, these surpluses aren't that big. I don't know, you've also listed 270 million savings from different sources on the board, but given that we're talking about 1 000 600 budget creditors, I have a lot of questions about how we're going to do it and who's going to do it. Ministry? Community? Or someone else? I personally don't see any transparency in this. Positive Slovenia will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk only has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I'm not going to stop by to replicate to those of you who have cropped up in my previous debate. I've said my thing, and I'm not giving it up. I would just like to say the position on this amendment proposed by the Group of Social Democrats, as well as by some other groups of Members, in order to support it, of course. When I asked the Member's question and I was not satisfied with the very formal minister's answer, a distinguished expert said to me, "It's not the minister's fault, it's those who have been going to work for years instead of working." It's similar in public institutions. Where they work, there are surpluses; and where they only go to work, there are usually losers. It is therefore incorrect to collect these surpluses to public institutions which are, in any case, intended for projects which should otherwise be financed by the State from the State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you very much. First of all, I would tell Mrs Plevčak that she voted, like the entire coalition, against all the proposals we made in the SDS to prosecute and expose the Taiwanese loans and those who gave credit. We proposed an amendment to the Banking Act, proposed a whole series of other amendments, proposed conclusions – you rejected everything. So don't point to us with your finger that we didn't do anything. You've had a government for one year, but there's no effect except negative. We are already used to this government not being able to take anything other than those who have the least. They also contribute to the elderly and retired by paying for care in the homes of older citizens. They contribute to the success of some institutions, mainly in order to invest in improving the environment for their caregivers, for the rehabilitation of kitchens, bathrooms and so on. This government decides to take this away from them and give it to probably some private bank when it rescues her again. We don't agree with that. Mrs Bratušek said a few days ago that you have a billion and a half that you will leave to the next government. I don't know why you don't spend it on the deficit and the loss of the miscellaneous revenue we've been warning you about, but of course you didn't want to hear it. You will now be taking care of health care homes and hospitals, saying that in health care money is no longer available. We meet with the President of the Republic, we meet here in the National Assembly, on the Health Committee, we meet at the House, we meet with unions and they find that there is no money. And now to those who have tried some money, despite everything with smart and rational work, to save or save to invest or invest in improving conditions in their homes, you want to take it. These institutions do not bathe in money, none of which, and do not have millions and these surpluses to spend them intransparency, or as they have been spent or are spent in a variety of ways from the state budget. But they do – and they also have to – because they are institutions – to improve work and procedures, that is, infrastructure in homes. They are turning to us today and to you, of course, so this conversion took place. On the Committee on Finance, only SDS Members voted in favour of such a proposal. To those who say that you are voting at will, in your own discretion, and evaluate what is necessary, I would like to tell you that this is a novelty in your actions. You have always followed what your Members have decided on the committee. I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, that we can't see this big change differently, or we can only link it to the fact that they're at the door of the election. And now you have to look nice and good to those you're talking to, pensioners, all the time you're calling yourself great guardians. If Mr Erjavec goes abroad, he thinks it will happen that he will end up with the pensioners if he does not. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, he's done a lot of things, and we've done a lot of things to the pensioners. And you don't do that with that kind of treatment. Pensioners contribute with care to the homes of older citizens and have created these surpluses. Now you're going to take that away from them, or you're going to decide not to because you know you're digging a hole with it. The fact is that only four SDS Members voted in favour of this amendment, which deletes this article. You've all supported the solution. Because of the letters you receive and we all receive, now you turn the board and you will support the matter. This is a duplicity, and I hope that's why the voters will reward you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Fishich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, all present! The amendment to Article 7 to delete this Article will be supported. As far as the supervision of indirect budgetary users is concerned, the procedures for possible changes have been very clearly defined and such a solution is therefore totally inappropriate. But I was disturbed by the proposed measure, which is actually a punishment for those who are doing well and a reward for those who are doing bad. It was also said that by means of these funds that would be collected to those who were doing well, they should again somehow rehabilitate or recapitalize the Bank of Celje. I believe that we have already invested a lot of money in the banking system in Slovenia, even too much, because of this, we owe each individual citizen, as we have heard, 15 000 euros. I think such moves are far from inappropriate. Nor are we doing anything to ensure that these frauds, who robbed our banks, found and took property from those who robbed this country or this bank. Therefore, I think it is good that today the majority opinion is here to hear that this article is left behind and that our amendment is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Mateja Pučnik has the floor, and then I see some interest in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I will certainly support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which provides for the deletion of this absurd Article 7. This is just another of the unreasonable proposals of the government of Alenka Bratušek, who is leaving before us in the National Assembly, because this article, simply put, allows public institutions to pick up what they have saved in recent years and then there will be no money to make additional investments to improve a lot, which the state should actually care about. Here we are talking about all indirect budget users, including schools, kindergartens, pharmacies, nursing homes. I can tell you a specific case. This Article 7 means that the government of the kindergarten in the Sun, which has saved a few years for shadows that would allow for a more pleasant stay for our little ones, can simply take this money away. Energy recovery is also currently under way in this kindergarten, and if such an article, in particular Article 7, is adopted, it means that it will also be impossible to draw on European funds. This move, and this proposal, is disgusted by all public institutions, since we are not the only members of the opposition who have received many letters and proposals in the National Assembly, including protest letters, that this Article 7 should simply be deleted. We have also been approached by the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, which call on us to prevent this from being adopted, and they have also added a petition, a petition against this Article 7, against the government's behaviour, which has been signed by more than 200 directors of public institutions in recent days. And even more critical were the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, which directly wrote that the proposed solution from the point of view of home for the elderly places of money was to the residents of the home, in which the torment collected funds for the most urgent maintenance work. And that in recent years the cost of energy in nursing homes is reduced in every detail, energy costs are reduced, both managerial and professional personnel are reduced to the limit. So the state will now punish those who have saved, those who have acted rationally. True, it is a pre-election time, but I hope that reason will prevail here to prevent such unreasonable proposals, which the government is bringing to the National Assembly as it departs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much. They've signed up for the debate. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u118	Dear colleagues and colleagues! However, as indicated by the amendments tabled, this proposal, which has gone in the direction of punishing those in the public sector who are good, which are rational, will fall, however. I think it's a positive thing that we in Parliament have shown some sobriety, some understanding of the situation itself. You know that we are constantly working on how bureaucratic our public sector is, how not good, how more innovations should be introduced, more self-initiative. And then comes this proposal, which actually punishes those who go in this direction. He punishes those who are self-initiative who are looking for ways to get some extra money at the institution they run, how to manage things rationally, not to spend all the budget money, in short, those who behave rationally and work most economically would be punished by taking what they have created with hard and good work. And, thank God, most of this House will seem to have decided that this will not happen. I am pleased that in addition to the opposition, the Social Democrats have also put themselves on this side, which will oppose this proposal, but in the Slovenian public administration, we will introduce principles that apply to the market sector, which I think is essential. And if we want to upgrade and rebuild our public sector, then we need to pursue these goals, not our public sector, back in some old times, where it was essential that you spent all the budget money, because if you didn't, you were a bad and lousy leader of the institution. One of the chiefs of the administrative unit I know told me that when they had a meeting with the chiefs of administrative units and when they were talking about doing business, those who had some money left at the end of the year were marked as freaks, why they were acting that way, why they operate that way. They were merely acting rationally. This is the climate that governs the Slovenian public administration, which would result in the adoption of such a provision being extremely harmful and would set a poor example for all those operating in the public sector. I therefore very much hope that when today's debate is over, the amendments will be supported, which will put an end to this madness.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor and then Mr Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. The theme is very interesting, of course, with the emphasis that we are facing elections in the near future. I'd start my debate like this. I will support the proposal, which is the day that this matter is deleted. In some ways, I strongly agree with the fact that, otherwise, those who are capable, innovative, capable of managing public institutions would be punished. Of course, I'll point out something else. This is a matter of budgeting. You know, all those who have been involved in the development of a budget in the past, whether at local or national level, are well aware, and when we are in the coalition and when our customers are in the government, that the structure should simply be closed both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. This government has made such a proposal, perhaps even in some sense, if we can say that we have dropped 200 million euros on the property tax, which we have not accepted or accepted in the National Assembly, then the Constitutional Court has otherwise considered. Yes, the expenditure and income side must be balanced. If they are not balanced with income from an address, then we have a single and simple task of looking for money outside, that is to say we owe ourselves. This is an even worse option than this option, which is bad, which is proposed to take money to public institutions. You know where Karl Erjavec will sit and wait for, some say, the mandate-holder, others say that the Commissioner will, and so on, not be burdened. And I suggest we all have enough of our own problems and try to burden ourselves with our own problems, it'll be much better and we'll be homogeneous. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Jazbec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word and a nice greeting to all present. Perhaps just so, because there has been a lot of talk about health, I would like to make it clear that this part of the public sector does not fit the most thematically. I think this is more of a pre-election dialogue. I'll tell you why. Most hospitals, three-quarters down anyway, so someone who doesn't have money, you can't take it away from him, you don't have to explain it. Second. A few health homes that have been zeroed or possibly slightly positive if they have this money for investment and in their financial plans, this has already been explained, nothing would be taken. But what's interesting is that when I listen here for three years to an eternal dilemma, what is public health compared to private concessionaires or privateists. And there's always been an answer that the difference is that in the public system, money is going back into the system, just what we're talking about. Apparently he's not coming back, so that understanding is also wrong. I would mention, however, that it is not a conversion or a number of calls made by the directors or voters. Similar calls were made when the previous ZIPRS government adopted, where there was a rule that any director who acted negatively could be punished with so much and so many euros and would be suspended. It was only then that we weren't in the pre-election period, but you probably weren't disturbed by those calls. However, I will tell you where the money has actually been transferred in a way similar to what is now proposed, and at the same time centralisation has been introduced. When the former government shut down the independent district health care institutions and connected them to the IVZ in Ljubljana, it created a centralisation, but all the money that they carefully saved after today's explanation with good business went back into the system by covering the losses of the IVZ. And that was in the previous government, yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. Mr Branko Smodish has the floor and then Mr Ivan Simčič. Mr. Branko Smodish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! I will support the amendments of the Social Democrats, but I am lucky, and I am glad that I did not have to be called about Article 7. Mr Tommy German, Director of Ljutomer, was mentioned several times earlier. As a councillor, I have supported this gentleman as Director because he is competent and competent for this work. I'm glad he brought that in, too. But interestingly enough, I, as an opposition or perhaps a left saint, supported the right-wing candidate. I miss it here, but I think it'd be pretty hard for the right to support the left-wing candidate here. I hope and I think that just from Ljutomer, we would also take as an example that good candidates would need support from both sides. That's why I think it's also proven here what others have said when you were called by directors who do well to have the ability in Slovenia to manage our institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Simčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u126	Dear Vice President, your honors are here! As can be seen from the letter, the Government notes that some indirect budgetary users have more money than they need. And they're being punished for not doing the right thing. They have too much money than they need. Speaking of rational business, once in their young years they said Strikes after those animals that drive well. Because after the bad guy, you have nothing to hit. This is happening today. But I would use the word "untrust." We do not trust directors who successfully run some institution, work surpluses, put in the Treasury Treasury treasury funds to come from a four-bedroom room in a home for older citizens in the past two years. It's complicated by healthy logic. On the other hand, let me mention my place again. 150 people in this house are employed. The guards are about 250. This is the second, third most powerful company in our place, in our congregation. Yes, because we have no other economy because we have been in this country for the last 23 years. Mr Stepišnik, with all due respect to you, the only minister who has answered my question. One rare, sorry. They are once included in the Eastern Cohesion Region. Be good, you'll get the money in the next perspective. Finally, the last sentence is interesting, "because the congregation has asked nothing in the last ten years of money". But even those institutions that do business positively obviously do not do so because they need to be deprived. Now the whole country has been wondering about the privatisation of the last 23 years. Someone privatized some agency for making a profit. But look at the fraction, the government controls that it shouldn't be too much. Because if it's too big, obviously you can't invest in your part of the institution, but we need to get cream on the state level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! I'll be brief. I will continue where, in fact, a respected colleague Ivan Simčič developed the idea. We are talking about trust or if we enforce this new Article 73a, we are not talking about trust. What's going on? The government doesn't have the money, the budget is broken. With regard to the deficit of the state budget, after four months, it is said that after one third of the year on three quarters of the deficit allowed, and the government has, in its own words, smelled the money in those institutions where the Republic of Slovenia is the founder. And when we are, I will now speak to the first person of the crowds, when we appointed the governing bodies to these particular institutions, where the state is the founder, we probably trusted these people. Today, by this proposed Article 73a of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, we wish to vote and give them no confidence. We sort of solved them. The one who was good and who was a good manager who was saving, who was taken, these two were essential, said Benjamin Franklin, entrepreneurship and savings, which must now be punished and taken away from him. We have all received an invitation from the largest Slovenian research institution, the Jožef Stefan Institute, where we are urged by Members and Members of the National Assembly to reject ZIPRS or, in particular, this 37a. Article 1 If this article were to be implemented, in fact, the largest research and research institutions would take the money they receive on the market, and this is crucial. They don't just wait for budget money, they know how to get it on the market. Even some college of Ljubljana and other universities can get money on the market. And they don't protest teachers on behalf of students in front of the finance minister or in front of a coalition, especially on the right if there's not enough money from the university funding budget. Engineering Faculty, and now you can tell me that I am doing advertising, the University of Ljubljana or the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Ljubljana can get, I think, even 60% of all the money on the market. On the market. If I stay with the Institute, Joseph Stefan, it is really only necessary to remember that when we vote on Article 37a, there is really no progress of Slovenia without the support of knowledge and development. The amendment to Article 7 should certainly be supported. As many as four members have tabled an identical amendment, the Article is deleted. The four parliamentary groups, however, are more than half of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. As far as I can tell, there's no more desire for a debate. I think it was quite comprehensive and extensive. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 21 May 2014, published on the e-club. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, please, on behalf of Positive Slovenia, for a 30-minute period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u132	I'm sorry, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I will take into account your procedural proposal by moving to an explanation of vote on the amendment tabled to Article 3. The amendment was tabled by the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk, explain their voice? He doesn't want to. On the basis of a procedural proposal before the vote, I am adjourning the meeting, which will be resumed at 13.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u134	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Let's get back to work. I ask whether Mrs Leila Hercegovac wishes to present the position of the Group of Members following the required pause? Thank you. He won't, so we're moving on to a decision. We are voting on the amendment of Article 3 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 24. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 4. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 21. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the Social Democrats' Group. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 7. Given that the amendments under points 1 to 3 are substantively identical, we are voting on them together. Can we make a decision? We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Check your action again. It's working. Can we move on? Yeah. So we are going back to deciding on the amendments to Article 7. The amendments to Article 7 were tabled by the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia. All three amendments are the same, so we are voting on them at the same time. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 5. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. May I have your attention, please? I take it that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments at 3, 4, 5. And Article 7 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have opposed from the outset the solutions proposed by the government of Alenka Bratušek. Otherwise, some of the amendments we have proposed have been adopted in this vote, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we believe that the adoption of such a law makes no sense. We have spent today from 9 a.m. to 14 p.m. 5 hours to discuss, on the committee as well as at least 3 hours to discuss, ladies and gentlemen, for nothing. After all, the government of Alenka Bratušek rapes us with some solutions that are not for the benefit of citizens and citizens, not for the benefit of the state as such, nor for the benefit of the government itself, nor for the national assembly. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are opposed to such a way of functioning of the government of Alenka Bratušek and will also be against this law. At the same time, we note that, on the basis of the vote on the amendments, the Slovenian Democratic Party no longer has any coalition in this National Assembly, in fact no law can, it seems, be adopted, the coalition does not work. One of the fundamental laws we are talking about, the implementation of the budget, has experienced a complete fiasco, as has been the case with the Real Estate Tax Act. We call on the government of Alenka Bratušek to carry out actual ongoing business, because laws that will affect the reduction of the rights of citizens and citizens or to increase the direct or indirect burden of citizens and citizens will certainly not be supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party because these laws are contrary to the benefits of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u137	Such a law will be adopted in our Group of Non-Aligned Members, but of course the following should be highlighted. That this law came to the National Assembly as it is, it came mainly because in the former coalition, the party presidents also agreed and gave a green light to make certain changes. What happened later and that many people are embarrassed and that they are looking at the ground today or up and moving around the whole story and they want to be liked because we are really before the elections, but of course there is another story and also reality. Nevertheless, it is not true that marriage is a living fiasco. There are certain things that remain in this law, and that is also the point that it is still important to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. The adoption of amendments to this law has also led to the disappearance of the reasons why we opposed this law in the National Gazette, especially the introduction of an additional EUR 400 million debt. With the amendment removed from the law, these reasons have been removed, so that we can now support the marriage. Here I would point out that, despite the fact that the SDS has proposed amendments and that all of their amendments have been adopted, they have suddenly found that this is not appropriate for them now. If we ask ourselves here who's screwing around from the entire national council and from all over the country, there's a perfectly clear answer. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u140	Mr. Pavlišič, the controversy at this stage is not allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u142	Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Positive Slovenia will be supported by the law on the implementation of the budget. In particular, in order to ensure the financing of all programmes, both public institutions, education, health care, social services, so that our citizens and citizens can get what they need. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we have pointed out too much debt and we are happy that this will not happen. We were also opposed to reaching out to public institutions and taking away money that they had saved or made extra money or earmarked for certain projects. In the parliamentary group, we will support the law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much, President. If I have learned something in these two and a half years in Parliament, it is the easiest thing to be an opposition, I have even experienced it on my own – you are against everything. You're against debt, you're against reducing social rights, you're against reducing public sector wages, you're against reducing scholarships. In short, you're against everything, you're like, people love you, and you don't have to think about how you're gonna fill out what's missing. But the one who has to try to do so is in a very difficult situation. Today I am heartbroken that my former parliamentary group supports the amendments SDS, NSI and SLS. That's why my heart hurts. But to the end, I will be responsible and try to adopt those laws and laws that will allow this country to continue to work normally. This particular law provides scholarships, for example, and if it is not adopted, you will all scream again how terrible we are, that we did not provide scholarships and so on [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u146	Mrs Kociper, don't argue with other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u147	A responsible policy would support this law, so I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you. Several of you are interested in explaining your vote on behalf of yourself, so I suggest you use your application to explain your vote. At the same time, I would like to warn you that you should tell us why you will vote in favour and why you will not, against, compromise at this stage. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u149	I will vote against this law because the law is essentially empty. The only thing that's left in it is that the grant fund is being put on the level. But, Your Honor, the scholarship is ongoing and this provision will not result in any less or no more running than it has been so far in the law on the implementation of budgets. And those who say that this law is related to the scholarship and that something can be changed in this area if it is not adopted are deceiving everything. Even more difficult to understand are those who tell us who oppose this law that we are against everything. Yes, we are against borrowing, against limiting or additional bureaucratic obstacles to European funds. Yeah, we're against it. We are opposed to the fact that those who save in public investment institutions are the ones that the country collects. The State shall collect the dividend money from all economic operators. Unselective. Just to fill the budget. And that's how I'd do it to public institutions. And we're against it. Most difficult to hear, however, is that the current opposition is comfortable in this role and that it has opposed, one year ago, taking very unpopular measures such as the Public Finance Balance Act, which intervened in a number of rights solely for the purpose of balancing public finances to actually reduce public spending. And now those who were against it at the time, and did nothing on the expenditure side, are demonstrating the irresponsibility and ease of voting in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! My vote for the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 will be in favour. This means that the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia has not made any change; it was for this and it is now. But the amendments exist to correct mistakes if we can fix them. The best thing is, with as much consensus as possible, this marriage will be even better. That is why I answer to my colleague Maša Kociper that no change has been made in the parliamentary group, but that we defend the budget further and I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! I'll support the bill myself. The members of Positive Slovenia were mostly quite a lot, but also from some of the other parties, and some of them were not at the meeting. And now they're discussing it differently because they don't know what explanation we've given. And let me say, the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia is the Group of Members that has remained in Positive Slovenia, which remains a faithful programme in which people have supported and trusted us, and in particular would highlight one thing. We have supported the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. Let me also say that I am somewhat indignant, Mr Zoran Jankovic, President of Positive Slovenia, was not invited at the last summit of the coalition. They probably talked about this ZIPRU at the time, so today my colleague Masha Kociper is still somewhat offended. But time goes on and things will be resolved. We supported all those amendments, even those that go the right way. Public education, public health, social services, these are the areas that we support in Positive Slovenia and will continue to support it by myself, through the soul of the social democrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We continue with the explanations of vote. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will be against this law, and I have no problem on the committee being in and out and against the committee against and then for, and at the coalition meeting once for and once for. Since the beginning, the Slovenian Democratic Party and Andrej Šircelj have been against this law and against additional debt and against tax raising and against stupid measures, such as property taxes, which the Constitutional Court has then had to abolish completely, against stupid laws. In short, from the very beginning Andrej Šircelj and the Slovenian Democratic Party have spoken and voted in the same direction. So we don't have such problems or I don't have them like the Members here on the right. And since this law provided for an additional obligation, provided for additional bureaucratic obstacles, provided for the withdrawal of funds from public institutions, I will strongly oppose this law. And there's really nothing left of this marriage. After all, it is also symbolically necessary to tell the government that there is nothing left of this government, and because there is nothing left of this government, they cannot give some substantively demanding, some substantively good laws for citizens and citizens and for the state itself and for the government itself. Again, firmly against it!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! If I've learned anything in the six and a half years of the parliamentary internship, then it's always necessary to be for people. Even if it costs you enough to stay outside the gates of the National Assembly. But since long-term justice wins, you come back to Parliament. To be for people means to be against this law in concrete terms, as we originally predicted without calculation, what will happen with the amendments, where we are also cosigners. So first, when it comes to supporting a marriage or anything else, you ask yourself if you trust. Unfortunately, we don't trust the government of Alenka Bratusek, even in this state. And that is why we do not trust because I asked her and begged her to tell us, however, what measures her government has taken, that last year's end economic activity has slightly increased, that it is positive. Since there was no answer, how can you trust this government when it comes with an important law? We regret that the four of us, i.e. our colleague Ludmila, colleague Iva and colleague Matthew, were also the only ones against the amendment in Article 5 of the Social Democrats because our political programme has recorded a faster reduction of public sector employees than just one percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm not voting. Why not? Because it's the wrong way. It is wrong to accept budget documents under an emergency procedure. The budget document is the most important document or one of the most important documents in the country and is accepted on a regular basis, trying to reach the greatest possible consensus. It's impossible for all of us to please each other anyway. This should be done on a regular basis. This 23 - year - old race has brought us — where? Let each of you answer for yourself. Not far from a successful start. There is total confusion in this House. I'd like to warn you of the following. What name should I speak for? As an unrelated Member, if we have unrelated non-connected Members of Parliament here? That means the confusion is perfect. At least this would be a good thing to do, so either we, or at least me, who is actually an independent Member, please call in the future an independent Member, because I am not an unrelated Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u160	Mr. Vogrin, let me just explain the business provision. Article 164 clearly provides that the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly shall be adopted by emergency procedure. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. Since there are more of you, I invite you to apply for an explanation. The word has magic. Stanko Stepichnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member and Members! I will vote in favour of the law. Not only me, but also all in Positive Slovenia, we make decisions on our heads, not as left or right thinks, but we support creativity, innovation and good ideas that are good for Slovenian citizens and citizens. That is why we have also supported both the right-hand and left-hand amendments, while at the same time actively participating in the content of certain amendments or articles of this law. I will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you. Mrs Roman Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will vote against this law. Whether I have discussed this or not, I do not think that the current government can propose such important changes as are crucial for further development and developments in Slovenia. Days ago, the Prime Minister boasted that the government had a billion and a half in the account. But today he's proposing a new assignment. While we owe 28 billion euros, the government shamelessly proposes a new debt. This is unacceptable, Your Honor! Second thing. It is intended to withdraw funds from public institutions [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u164	Mrs. Roman Tomc, you have a phone. I think it's somewhere nearby.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u165	I'm sorry. Thank you very much. It is intended to withdraw funds from public institutions, which is unacceptable. It’s all-gliharism and some generalization, a leveller who, of course, only points out that some people don’t really know what they’re doing. Let me remind you of one special event in connection with what the government of Alenka Bratušek did a while ago, also respected Mrs Maša Kociper, who says that the scholarship will no longer be. A while ago, the government seized the Grant Fund, and I'm just explaining that you've misinterpreted it, and because you don't know what it is, you're talking about things you don't know. The government has seized 15 million euros for scholarships just like this. And she transferred them to the state budget. We're not against it. We are responsible for the conduct of this policy and for measures that strengthen economic growth and encourage new jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is absolutely clear that I will oppose this law. Against the fact that we've been in debt headlessly to the extreme limit lately. We've crossed every line we can. We've reached 28 billion, 81% of GDP debt. We have come to a point where this headless, unacceptable way of leading and behaving government structures towards its people must be put to an end. This law allows for an additional new debt. We must resist this with all our means. Slovenian people, I'm sure they've had enough of this. Through the head of enough people who make slaves of this nation in their own country. And that must be done. At the same time, it is also necessary to bring an end to the fact that the government of Alenka Bratušek has committed a crime against us Slovenian nations because it has brought him to the brink of survival. She put him in a situation where most Slovenes and Slovenes can't survive from month to month. And we're here talking about new assignments and laughing. Some coalition parliamentary groups say they are working in the interest of social welfare to save the social state. Is this a social state for you, a coalition and a government that has brought most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to the brink of survival? Is this a social state for you a coalition and a government? No, it's not. Against this, we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I am against doing this over our own people, so I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you. Please, we are still trying to choose words in our own explanations. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I will vote against this law, which, as we have heard, has been coordinated in the coalition as a predatory law. Today, as has been said, some are ashamed and look down or down the ceiling. Ladies and gentlemen, this law and the rubble of public institutions, as foreseen, is similar to those of governments in countries that are losing war and which are just before capitulation. You remember from the story that the occupying authorities to the end were grinding church bells and digging them into cannons. The measures taken by this law are symbolically identical. You wanted to rub silver in public institutions for the time being, because it was hard to collect and save. But if we don't prevent this nonsense from falling apart here, the next action and the next law will be the rubble of family armor and those basic matters, pensions and so on. This government does not stop at anything, nothing is sacred to it anymore, and such a law cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you. I suggest we make a decision. Excuse me? Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Just like my colleagues, we'll support the law. The two articles we disagreed with were duly amended. We have amended them on our own, and we also requested coalition coordination yesterday because we felt that the solution provided for in Article 7 was not the best. Now these corrections have been made. However, every responsible government must strive to propose a budget that will somehow endure. And that's what this government was doing responsiblely. The solutions may not have been completely preconceived in this short time period, but we express our support for their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak also has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. I will vote for the law. But I must say, I am very surprised that they voted in favour of all the amendments that were also on their side. This is said to be basically the case because they had the possibility of amendment. And that's why there's a lot of misdirection. You're saying we need to save the social state. I agree. She needs to be held responsible. I agree with that, too. I therefore propose – are we Members willing to leave one month's personal income? No, no, no. You're all quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u174	In fact, I must point out once again that the explanation of vote is not intended to be politicised, but rather to say why you will vote in this case in favour or against this law. Mr. Jože Tanko is next to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you very much. What we hear from members of the coalition, the so-called coalition, is not exactly an encouraging political environment. And given that you have also written an important sentence in the coalition contract, which speaks of a different political culture and a different approach, what is actually happening is a public denial of what is said in the coalition contract. To adopt such an important law as the law on the implementation of the budget, in such a polarised environment, so shaken up, I think it is very irresponsible. I do not know what the presidents of the coalition parties or those who remained in contact with Alenka Bratušek have agreed, but what was agreed is extremely bad for all those affected by this law. In fact, only the title and the few articles remained of the law. It is crucial that the law be enforced the day after its adoption in the Official Journal. And given how this happened and the fact that there was nothing urgent left in the marriage, such a law actually made no sense even to support it. Content is not available, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Things went out, and that's why I'm going to vote against this law. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you. I suggest we decide on the law. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 26. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the Act on Income. The draft law was tabled by a group of ten Members and Members, with the first-signed France Bogovic. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members, with the first signed France Bogovic, demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the draft law, Franc Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have before us a package of two laws that we have tabled together members of the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, with the support and cooperation of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. The main purpose of these two laws is to relieve mainly micro and small entrepreneurs in Slovenia by simplifying their work. In the beginning, let me say immediately that there will be no confusion in the future. In the event of the adoption of these two laws and if we want them to come to life next year, we will also need to supplement the Value Added Tax Act, which is due to the rules following coordination or the need to obtain the consent of the Council of the European Union within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We've already warned the government about this with a letter. It is a matter of minor changes to this law, and if we really want to simplify our work for our economists, it is also right that we adopt such laws. The so-called flat-rate taxation legislation was adopted in 2012. At that time, the Government, in which I participated, prepared, and in the National Assembly, legislation was adopted and we legislated that the threshold for the so-called flat-rate taxation of annual income is 50,000 euros and that standardised expenditure can be imposed at 70%. In the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, we also discussed with the Chamber of Commerce, with the craftsmen, that we should have done what we said at the time in 2012 that after the year of implementation of this law, which had already been in force in 2013, we would have looked at what was going on on in the field and assessed whether we had these two figures, said 50,000 euros in revenue and 70% of the standard expenditure correctly hit the scale or needed to change something. From surveys carried out by the Chamber of Commerce and also, as I have already said, on the basis of the experience of those working in this area, we are transferring this change to you so that the threshold for flat-rate taxation of EUR 50 000 will rise to EUR 100 000 and that the standard costs will also rise to 80% from the current 70%. With these solutions, we are confident that an even greater number of independent entrepreneurs, as well as micro and small entrepreneurs, will decide to enter into this flat-rate taxation and that in their daily work they can focus primarily on work rather than administrative tasks and stay in fear of tax inspectors. The third solution under this law is that this threshold, which we are now applying, from 50,000 euros forward, would also be linked to the compulsory employment of either the operator of the activity, even the independent entrepreneur, or that at least one person has been employed for half a year in the company or the independent entrepreneur. It is said that there are three solutions: raises from €50 to €100,000, raises the standard costs from €70 to €80,000, and one job is needed for those entrepreneurs who will have more than €50 to €100,000. It is simply that there will be no speculation in this area. We firmly believe that this will also reduce the costs for the work of public administration, because inspectors, now with customs and everywhere, will certainly be in the tax area as well as in the field of inspections of decommissioning, if people have simplified procedures and we also have savings in public administration. But if there's any [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] there will certainly be much more savings on the other hand, without people dealing with different accounting services. [[…]] I propose that we hold a debate in the first reading and finally vote that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much for the introductory explanation. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u179	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The possibility of determining the tax base of the activity's income by taking into account standard expenditure is established with a view to administrative simplification for small business entities in meeting tax obligations and increasing legal certainty in relation to the tax base, which means a derogation from taxation by economic power. We have known the system for a long time, but it was substantially renewed in 2012 with the start of application for the fiscal year 2013. The applicant notes that the current regime does not cover a sufficient number of entrepreneurs and therefore proposes an increase in the income threshold and an increase in the level of standardised expenditure. The Government notes that the proposal for a law is not based on estimates and analyses of concrete data, since the accounts were submitted to the tax authority only until 21 April of this year and are being prepared in order to allow for specific analyses. However, I must also point out at this point that the Government has committed itself to discussions with both the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia and with another interested public, so that as soon as the data are ready for processing or analysis, it will proceed to examine the reasons why a relatively small number of entities have opted for so-called flat-rate taxation. Still, I can give you some information. According to data for 2012, out of a total of almost 97 000 natural persons engaged in the activity, around 77 % of persons met the condition for entry into the system of standardised expenditure for 2013, i.e. more than three quarters of the debtors. Only 15% of all pledges decided to enter the system, which is a good 15 000. This represents 80 % more than the number of commitments involved before that renovation, but significantly less than 77 %. It is estimated that, based on financial savings in the tax and administration costs, the proposal would be more favourable for an additional 6 000 600 taxpayers, which raises questions about the achievement of the objective of the law. Furthermore, the proposal has negative financial implications for the state budget, as we expect that the flat-rate scheme would be decided by the taxpayers, who would in particular reduce the tax burden. The estimate is that revenue would be reduced by around one million and 100,000 euros. The debtors are in very different situations and greater than the simplifications in the determination of the tax base, there is a greater inequality. Therefore, it is necessary to determine the amount of the standardised expenditure and the level of the income requirement for entry into the moderation system in order not to result in a relatively high tax advantage on the basis of actual economic power for individual groups of taxpayers. Therefore, it is also necessary to analyse which debtors in the current system have opted for a flat-rate taxation regime and which is not and what are the reasons why they have not decided to do so, while a specific proposal for a law does not answer these questions. The assessment of the proposal should also take into account the impact on the behaviour of the taxpayers in terms of qualifications for entry into the system, for example the concealment of income, the impact on labour market practices, so that income found for tax purposes can also be taken into account when determining the basis for social security contributions and the determination of social security and family benefits rights and the impact on the public publication of annual reports. The undertakings in the system of standardised expenditure do not have these obligations. Taking all of this into account, we assess that the proposed law cannot be supported and, once again, I stress, we do not reject the debate on any other or additional changes to the flat-rate taxation system in the field of income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. The first is Mr Aljoša Jerič, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Nice greeting on my part, too! Your Honor! At the end of 2012, a new Law on Income was adopted which introduced the possibility of paying income through so-called standardised expenditure. Those entrepreneurs who have chosen such a way of determining income were able to make the first tax return taking into account the standardised expenditure for 2013. Businesses that have collected such a tax system shall automatically be recognised as standardised expenditure of 70% of the revenue generated. It does not matter how much expenditure actually arises, nor does it matter to demonstrate the eligibility of expenditure as such. The tax rate is 20% and is fixed. The income of the entrepreneur is thus no longer part of the income taxed on the income scale. This way of taxation can be chosen by any independent entrepreneur whose annual income does not exceed EUR 50 000. Members of the Group of Non-Related Members, at the time of the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the current Income Act, we discussed the very level of the border to which it is possible to enter the system of standardised expenditure. On that date, the EUR 50,000 limit was considered to be too low and should be set at EUR 100,000. We also think so today, so we welcome the proposal that offers such a solution, even though this proposal has not come from our kind. The other solutions, which the proposer also offers in today's bill, are unfortunately not sufficiently sophisticated and sophisticated in our view. Here I am referring to the additional condition for entrepreneurs wishing to enter the system of standardised expenditure, which in the past calendar year exceed the income threshold of EUR 50 000, namely that they are self-employed for full-time or have at least one full-time employee. It also seems reckless to us to raise the amount of standardised expenditure from the current 70 to 80% of the tax revenue recognised. The third feature of the novelty we have is the entry threshold for VAT. I don't know if the applicants deliberately overlooked the fact that, at the time of the adoption of the current law, there was an increase in the VAT system threshold, from the then 25,000 euros to the present 50,000 euros. Why is this important information? Simple. In order to achieve a reduction in administrative burdens and fixed costs of keeping business books, it is also important to consider VAT and keeping books of invoices received and issued. In the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act at first reading. We expect an expert constructive debate below. We also expect to obtain all the relevant analyses on the basis of which we will assess the effects of raising the threshold for entry into the VAT system from €50,000 to €100. Such an arrangement must be optional, since an arrangement based on compulsory entry into the system of standardised expenditure which does not constitute taxation by economic power does not comply with the principle of equality before the law and is therefore not legally permissible. In terms of tax liability, the optional system favours and gives the possibility of tax planning and optimisation of tax liability as well as of overall business. Of course, there is still some concern about the inconsistencies of the proposed law. As has already been said, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we expect a broad discussion to produce a text that will effectively reduce administration for the debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you for saying so, Madam Vice President. Honourable representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleague, respected colleague. Allow me to present my position on this and on the law that comes at the next point, in a unified position, because it is a twin marriage. What is the point of these changes? The former government or Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, introduced a novelty that is the basis for the proposed changes. This is a flat-rate taxation of independent entrepreneurs and small businesses, which mainly reduces the administrative burden. Some feel that the essence of lowering the tax burden is far from that. While it is true that lowering burdens may be a welcome side effect, the essence of the law is in an administrative burden, for which we are constantly taking our stand in the National Gazette. The proposal for changes ahead of us will allow bureaucratic administrative obstacles to be addressed by more independent entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, who will thus have more time to deal with their primary activities. However, the proponents failed to introduce additional criteria in the context of the proposed amendments, which may seem to be attractive and reasonable at first sight, but which in essence undermine the basic purpose of the law. I'm talking about provisions on the number of employees. Reducing bureaucratic barriers through the introduction of new employee regulations is a logical nonsense. This has been overlooked by the motioners in a strong desire for likeness. However, we see the whole story in the Citizen's List and we want to propose not only like but good laws. At this stage, we will support the draft law and, together with the law's proponents, upgrade and find better solutions to reduce bureaucratic barriers and simplify business for the Slovenian economy. However, I certainly expect the Ministry to provide us with all the information mentioned below in the next procedure, so that we can further improve the law accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party or Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Ambassador Franci Bogovic, has already said the key things in the introduction as the proposer of this law. I'll just try to make up a few more. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been discussing the necessary corrections in the field of flat-rate taxation for more than a year. Unlike the Government, which in its opinion operates completely technically with figures based on the past, we went among entrepreneurs, went among craftsmen and asked them what they thought. You know what they said? That the peacock idea was a good idea. More. That she's great. But, unfortunately, it is now set aside to benefit only from rare activities with a low percentage of actual expenditure. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia also states that the current arrangements due to a low income threshold and a low percentage of standardised expenditure are not suitable for regular production, service and service activities where costs are higher. In particular, it is inappropriate for those who work. Have you been paying attention? Dear colleagues and colleagues, the current arrangement is not suitable for those who are employed. That's what they say. What, though, is the primary objective of all of us who adopt legislation? New jobs. Therefore, this package of laws will include a large part of the small economy in this flat-rate so that we can obtain some employment on this account. We also need small entrepreneurs and small businesses to apply complex and extensive tax legislation and to comply with all the accounting rules applicable to large companies. Of course, this makes them less competitive than companies in Croatia, Austria, Czech Republic, Germany, Great Britain and so on, using simpler accounting and tax rules. And that's what we want to ensure for Slovenia. The next thing we could talk a little bit more about is our proposal that companies with incomes should have at least one regular employee of 50 and 100,000 euros to enter flat-rate taxation. Why? In order to prevent any abuses, this legislation would be used to transfer money through straw companies. This option of entering the system should flatten for those who give jobs that have the potential to develop, prosper, in short to work. The Government shall draw attention to the nominal technical shortcomings of this Article on compulsory employment. But look! We are still under consideration on the committee responsible and the second and third are under consideration. We can work this out together in accordance with the rules, if that is what we want. With this package of laws we have in the Slovenian People's Party, as well as cosigners in Novi Slovenija, an honest intention to facilitate work for at least some small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. This idea is supported by the economy and the financial implications for the budget are very small in the most pessimistic government version. Even if we unload them for a million euros, as far as you estimate in a government opinion, it is no disaster, as this money will remain in the economy. But I am sure that this arrangement will bring more entrepreneurs into the system over a period of several years and will pay you more taxes in a few years than they are paying now. They will be happy to pay them because they will not need to pay for accounting services and will not need hours and hours to deal with balance sheets, prove costs and similar bureaucratic nonsense as is happening today. Ladies and gentlemen, in the House of Commons! Right now, when active governments are virtually gone, we can use some common sense and do something good for small entrepreneurship, for entrepreneurs, for craftsmen, for those who are not left or right, but are ours, Slovenia. They're the core of our economy. Let us support this package of laws that we have tabled in the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, and at least let us go in front of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the position will be presented by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. From the applicant's point of view, these are the types of additions and changes which, according to our conduct, refer to a specific segment of the economy. In the context of the bill, we can see that solutions offer benefits for the minimum taxpayers, namely, the applicant offers, for the first time, an increase of the traffic threshold by 100%, a change from the current 50,000 to 100,000 euros. Secondly, an increase in the amount of standardised expenditure to 80% of tax-recognised revenue from the current 70. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we note that the basis for the proposed changes stems from this January's survey carried out by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. The result of the survey showed that 51 respondents, involving 223 independent entrepreneurs and 40 companies, decided on flat-rate taxation on the basis of standardised expenditure. In the event that the upper limit of traffic is raised from 50,000 to 100,000 so far. Thus, in the Group of the Democratic Parties, we checked and found that, according to the register of taxpayers, at the end of 2013, 93 thousand 164 active taxpayers were registered. Over the past year, 135 thousand 790 registered active taxpayers were legal entities. So a total of almost 229 thousand respondents. This means that the statistical sample of the survey covered only 0.1 of the entire economic sector. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we therefore assess that the proposal proposed by fellow Members does not follow a sufficiently legitimate percentage for the application of a representative sample, which is supposed to be the basis for legislative changes. I believe that a greater number of registered active companies should be covered, including independent entrepreneurs, who are included in the so-called micro-enterprises. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the current legislation in this area is regulated and does not need to be amended, so we will oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act. We also believe that a meaningful analysis of the advantages, weaknesses and weaknesses that, if adopted, would be more than desirable to be able to assess the effects on the small business and crafts segment, but not only to obtain a loose explanation that the financial implications of simplifying the tax system for a much wider range of taxpayers would be positive in the medium term for the budget. As I have already said, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act that we have before us today will not be supported by our Group of Members. However, we want a thorough financial analysis of what this means, what it brings to the budget. Are the criteria correct and good both for users and for the budget? An accurate analysis of who benefits from this, because he obviously flattens the benefits of service and advisory activities in particular. Whoever has ever managed and managed a separate enterprise or a micro-enterprise knows how to deal with costs, how to document them, etc. It is difficult to cover all the costs that arise, but I believe that this proposal is indeed a priority for those who operate at minimum costs and therefore it is necessary for this proposal to be carefully examined, reconsidered and then further discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present his position on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-worker, dear colleague and colleague! Let me begin by saying that I nevertheless feel some affection for the further discussion of this law and the willingness to optimize the text of the Member and Members, first of all members and members of the Committee on Finance. What were the reasons why New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party proposed to the National Assembly to adopt this law? We are aware that the small economy in Slovenia represents almost 99% of the economy. And the very part of this small economy is dedicated to this novelty of the Income Law. Since we are walking on the ground, we have visited practically even Slovenia in these two and a half years and are talking to small entrepreneurs who all advocate such a solution. If they advocate, this means that it will be some stimulation, some incentive for a small economy, this means a new boom, and this also means more intensive filling of the pension allowance. So the signatories under this law, under this amendment to the Income Act, we still care about pensioners. The proposal for amendments to the Income Act, which we are considering today, is part of measures to stimulate entrepreneurial initiatives. In times of economic crisis, it is important that the State, in addition to the general principles of tax fairness, generality and neutrality, ensures in particular the incentive effect of tax rules. We are aware that Slovenia will be pulled out of the economic crisis by economists, not politicians, even less unionists. However, politicians must not be hindered; we must encourage the economy, motivate it. The derogation from the general form of taxation constitutes the possibility of a simplified flat-rate tax procedure for natural persons engaged in an activity, as well as for smaller business entities creating a relatively low amount of annual turnover. In doing so, let me stress that this is not a tax relief, but merely a simplification of taxation of smaller taxpayers. In fact, such a system of taxation has already been established since the tax year 2013 onwards, which covers an underlying set of taxpayers. As the government representative has already said today, the precise analysis that some have requested is unfortunately not yet available, but I am sure that at that time the government will also be softened in its position. The processing of the first tax returns submitted under the new simplified system of taxation has not yet been carried out and therefore the effects of the current flat-rate taxation system cannot be discussed. However, in New Slovenia we will also listen to the initiatives of natural persons and legal entities, in particular the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise on the necessary increase in the threshold for the possibility of selecting simplified flat-rate taxation from the current EUR 50 000 to EUR 100 000 per year and increasing the percentage of recognised flat-rate costs from the current 70% to 80%. Let me mention here that there is virtually no professional article that we have read in recent days that would oppose this bill. In addressing this proposal, let us stress the good practices of some European countries in promoting economic activity. Like Slovenia, these countries have faced a severe economic crisis and a high level of unemployment. The problems have been addressed by programmes to support small businesses and these programmes have created a favourable business environment for the opening and growth of small businesses. In Slovenia, too, we have asked ourselves whether we have had a better number of unemployed living with social transfers and income from the grey economy, or whether we should encourage self-employment under favourable conditions. I think the answer is clear to all of us. The complexity, longevity and breadth of administrative procedures, as well as the areas of tax legislation, are often an obstacle to a number of potential candidates who would opt for a separate activity, even though they may have the idea and even the necessary start-up funding. The possibility of flat-rate taxation is a major simplification, and in particular greater predictability with regard to the tax liability of smaller taxpayers. In order to achieve the objective of greater economic incentives, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act now under consideration will need to be upgraded by other measures, in particular by facilitating the employment of unemployed persons, eliminating unnecessary administrative barriers, reducing and simplifying procedures for obtaining appropriate consents, permits and so on. However, we regard it as one of the good steps towards promoting economic activity, so we are co-signers, and it is perfectly normal that Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be supported by the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u190	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he shall have the word mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia has been in a deep economic crisis for several years, and therefore any measure that could also potentially contribute to bringing the country and the economy out of the crisis is welcome. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support any measure that contributes to this. This measure is being assessed for one of these, which will primarily encourage micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to operate more easily. By making business easier, they will be more competitive and can develop on this basis. Every company has ever been small. Those of us who have engaged in entrepreneurship and have cooperated with companies in one way or another, we know that larger, large enterprises have always come from small enterprises and small companies are, of course, more vulnerable. They should therefore be given certain benefits. Finally, in the European Union, it is estimated that small and medium-sized enterprises can also be drawn from the crisis in other countries. That is why such suggestions are welcome. This raises a number of questions, setting a number of dilemmas, which we can resolve in further consideration and find an optimal solution for all. What exactly is the proposal? The proposal is, as already mentioned by colleagues, that the flat rate rises from 50,000 to 100,000 traffic, we are talking about the transport of an independent entrepreneur. Furthermore, the recognised costs, without any evidence, should be raised from 70% to 80% of these revenues and, in the case of an independent entrepreneur having more than one employee, or in the case of more than 50,000 euros per annum, this independent entrepreneur must have one employee. In doing so, he would mention a dilemma that has lasted for 20 years, whether he is an independent entrepreneur, it is said, the founder of the company, in fact, who is already employed. And if so, then there's no dilemma. However, the question will certainly arise as to what his salary is, for he on the other hand has no wages. These solutions represent the following changes. Today we take the maximum revenue, on the euro rounded, and see how much this taxpayer pays today. Let's say he has 50,000 traffic, he's a flatlist, he has 70% of the recognised costs, which means his tax base is 15,000. 70% of 50 grand is $35,000. At a rate of 20%, such an entrepreneur pays 3,000 euros a year. According to the new, let's take the maximum revenue, rounded to the euro, says 100,000 euros, has a maximum of 80,000 recognised expenditure, which means that the tax base is 20,000, and such an entrepreneur will pay a 20% tax, that is 4 000 euros. Certainly this is a welcome change in its entirety. Given the need to take into account when we talk about this tax, that in 2012 the independent entrepreneurs had 70 bankruptcys started and the removals from the market or from all documents were 77, which means, in other words, about 150 independent entrepreneurs have failed in such a way or otherwise, which means that the relationship is not favourable. In 2013, there were 50 insolvencys with independent entrepreneurs and 52 deletions, i.e. around 100. In other words, some solutions may have appeared here, why this is the case in different laws. However, the financial effects must also be taken into account. The point is that such a solution ensures better management conditions for independent entrepreneurs, that they are more competitive, that they have higher incomes and that their business outcome is even better on the basis of better management and that they will become medium-sized enterprises, large enterprises and that they will have as much profits as possible and that they will have as much employment. As soon as they employ as much as possible, the situation for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will also be more favourable. If we continue to choke, as does the government of Alenka Bratušek in the last year, when he constantly chokes with additional bureaucratic and administrative obstacles and with increasing taxes on entrepreneurship, work, and efficiency, we will not get anywhere. It is therefore appropriate to support this law in order to resolve some of the dilemmas and issues in the further debate. Here was the question whether the Value Added Tax Act should also be amended. The value added tax law provides for the entry into the system of value added tax of 50 000. Now it's going to be 100 grand. We estimate that it is not necessary to amend the value added tax law as well. A person may be liable to value added tax and at the same time act on the basis of a flat rate. Those operating on the basis of the flat-rate shall also issue accounts for their services and for the supply of goods. Of course, he will be a little more burdensome administratively at the same time. Those who have more than 50,000 will have to keep records and pay value added tax. We don't see any problems here with the different amounts. After all, such amounts have been different in the past and also in other countries have different amounts to enter between the flat-rate and entry into value added tax. This is an example of Austria, where I think the mentioned 220 thousand flats are flat. I think the safe amount to enter the system of value added tax is different. Here we do not think that these solutions are conditioned by any automaticity in value added tax. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance said there was a million missing, if I understood correctly. It's probably a static calculation. This is probably a calculation that nothing will change, that the data will be the way they are. That independent entrepreneurs operate as they do, but not that, because they have a more favourable position, they will increase their income on the one hand, increase their value added tax, increase their income and transition from these micro-enterprises or transport companies to up to 100,000 also those companies that have to keep records and should ultimately keep all business books in line with accounting standards. In other words, we cannot always believe static calculations. The Ministry of Finance has not prepared a specific analysis, although some data are in this opinion. And it hasn't prepared a dynamic analysis for medium, small and micro enterprises, what's actually going to happen. One of the important issues that will need to be resolved, or at least addressed, I hope to resolve them, is the differences in the added values per activity. Even if we take a comparative look, and this is also mentioned in the material itself, they have certain activities abroad, so to speak, different percentages of recognised expenditure. I agree that it is always extremely difficult to determine expenditure for individual activities. But there is data on this, and the data is known. Probably a self-employed entrepreneur who is involved, I will now say, with agricultural activity, I know that there are very few of them, or with production activities, it has less added value than, if you like, a tax advisor or dentist, a sole entrepreneur or a lawyer, a financial adviser and so on. I have no objection to these companies or entrepreneurs dealing with activities of high added value, but I would like to point out the differences in the economy as they achieve added value in some activities and not in others. However, in each activity they are, after all, good and bad and are likely to achieve higher added value than bad. However, consideration should be given to this matter. What will happen to this law below is difficult to say, given the different opinions of some of the coalition groups as well. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the law for further consideration. In further consideration, however, we would like to see certain questions, which are current, resolved to find the answers, so that we can best complement this law with solutions that I hope will then be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia shall have the word mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Representative of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In Positive Slovenia, we advocate the view that systemic solutions in the field of tax legislation must be in line with the exit strategy from the economic and financial crisis. Thus, they do not increase the cost of business. In Slovenia, unemployment must be reduced as a matter of urgency, and the creation of new jobs must be supported by appropriate measures to enable the economy to continue its employment. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, which is ahead of us, is a higher revenue side, a threshold for entry into the system of standardised expenditure from the current €50,000 to €100,000. This change will cover a larger number of entrepreneurs, to whom the system is also primarily intended, in the light of the administrative burden, their operations and the reduction of the fixed costs of keeping business books. We note that flat-rate taxation of small independent entrepreneurs and small and micro-economic companies has entered into force for both types of business facilities with 1. 1. 2013, suitable only for activities with a low percentage of actual expenditure, i.e. intellectual and complementary activities, but not suitable for regular production, service and service activities, particularly for those who employ. For craftsmen and entrepreneurs, the current flat-rate taxation system does not simplify the definition of the tax base, since the higher costs they create in carrying out economic activities quickly exceed the income limit of EUR 50 000. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia also welcomes the proposal to raise the standard expenditure from the current 70% to 80% of the tax revenue. We estimate that both current parameters have a negative impact on the future growth of the company and on employment, as the growing and hiring company must move to a more complex way of determining the tax base on the basis of actual expenditure as soon as the first year of business, and the knowledge of the complex rules often comes at the expense of creativity, rather than at the expense of the development of activity and employment. In Positive Slovenia we therefore believe that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u194	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u195	Your Honor! Proposals by amending and supplementing the Income Act propose an increase in the income threshold for entry into the system of standardised expenditure from the current EUR 50 000 to EUR 100 000 and an increase in the amount of standardised revenue from the current 70% to 80% of the tax revenue recognised. We stress that the proposal for a law is not based on assessments made and on actual data that take into account the overall situation of taxpayers, even the non-taxable aspect is questionable here, and does not take into account the fact that the system of standardised expenditure constitutes a derogation from taxation by economic power, through which the constitutional principle of equality before the law is exercised in the taxation of income in general. Therefore, flat-rate taxation is beneficial to the taxpayer, simplifies the tax system and, on the other hand, we need to be careful when setting limits if we are to maintain a just nature of taxation, that those who create more also contribute more depending on their economic capacity. It should also be stressed that the debtors are in different situations, and greater than simplifications in the determination of the tax base, there is a greater inequality. Therefore, it is necessary to determine the level of standardised expenditure and the level of the income requirement for entry into the system of proportionality in order not to result in individual groups of taxpayers, activities with a lower share of expenditure in revenue, disproportionately high tax advantage in terms of actual economic power, and not to affect the behaviour of the debtors in order to qualify for entry into the system of standardised expenditure. Out of a total of almost 27,000 natural persons analysed in the course of their activities, given the conditions in force, where revenues do not exceed EUR 50 000, regardless of the number of employees, the tax base could in a simplified manner identify around 77 % of all the debtors. In fact, only 15 000 or 15 % of the undertakings analysed are good. The current expenditure threshold is not too low, since it covers a virtual majority of the debtors and would therefore only cover an even smaller proportion of the debtors, around 11%, when the income threshold rises to EUR 100,000 is in effect. The bill does not, however, achieve the basic objective of the law, namely the accessibility of the amended tax system to the wider circle of taxpayers. It is estimated that, based on financial savings, such as administration tax and costs, it would be more favourable for an additional 6 000 600 taxpayers. Furthermore, the proposal also has negative financial implications for the state budget. It is estimated that EUR 1,100 million of tax inflows, or tax benefit for those already in the scheme, is estimated at EUR 4,4 million or around EUR 233 per debtor. In doing so, we cannot assess, nor can we be sure, that an administratively more favourable way of determining the tax base could have effects on the reduction of the grey economy. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will vote against the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues, for the views expressed by the groups of Members and for the position of the Government. On the basis of all these views, I can say peacefully that we are all aware that measures must also be implemented in order to facilitate the functioning of the economy. The representative of the Civil Code correctly pointed out the general purpose of this law, that there is not only a financial impact, a tax effect, but definitely an abolition of administrative barriers or the possibility for businesses to focus on the activity at the start of their operations and not on administration. However, when the company has grown into this framework, it has to move into an environment where normal accounting and tax payments are needed in relation to the rest of the income. As regards the comments that have been made, it is certainly necessary to do what the representative of the Government said should be analysed for 2013. With a question from the Member State, we asked a good one month ago – I know that at the time these analyses are coming, that we should put our heads together and simply make any corrections to this proposal, which we have prepared together with colleagues from Nova Slovenije and the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. We are open to this discussion to find that these 80 % of the standard costs are too high than some general level and that a lower percentage could be estimated on-the-spot for certain activities as well. I think we really need a detailed analysis to do that. However, if this year's legislation is to be adopted and then this more environmentally friendly environment is to come into force in the coming year, it should be done relatively quickly. When we find out what the financial impact is, I agree with my colleague Shirtzl that today it is really only possible to make a static assessment that does not even simulate that it is possible for any of those today who are paying taxes on the basis of accounts to deal with some creative accounting, to look for some costs that are sometimes fictitious, and that a variety of people who today may even show negative results or a positive zero, as they like to say in entrepreneurship, would be willing to pay this lump sum and would simply be burdened by these concerns regarding the search for costs or on the other hand also the fear of the eventual findings of some irregularities. So I think that this calculation is already at this point, when we're talking about a million profits tax, it's said, from 5 million bases, it's very quickly possible to get into such a changed situation. The second, which is public finance, has already been warned about the grey economy. If we fish here some revenue into different cash registers, a million is very quickly covered. Let's not talk about making it easier for someone to decide and direct them from some kind of social transfer to work. I must say, I am very grateful for these views. I think we are all aware of the responsibility to make simplification in this area. On behalf of the proposers, the two groups say, I express my readiness to sit together in the process below and to make any corrections to this law based on analysis, which we can then arrange in the next reading also with the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate of Members of Parliament and Members who are reported to the floor. First it's mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and to all present! The flat-rate taxation system was an important part of the National List programme and in 2012 this system was also introduced with significant changes to the Slovenian legal order. As long as the Minister was a member of the National Gazette, the discussions have repeatedly exposed the idea that the threshold should be higher and the higher recognised standard costs. However, it was also then stipulated in these negotiations that we would put in place a system like we did then and that after one year of implementation of this system we would see in practice how to proceed or if any changes or additions are needed. Today, the Ministry says that it is still difficult to give purely accurate analyses of how this has been carried out in practice, because in practice some have started to do so since 1 January 2013. But to give a green light to this bill, but it is already in this area, this point is one of the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. And that is enough for me to give this law my vote to continue the legislative process. Of course, the fact that in practice entrepreneurs did not crash into this system is that it was not a very great revolution in this area, which was normal, of course, because it was also expected that those doing the service activity would be the ones most likely to benefit from such a system. However, I do not agree with the proposal made by the applicants who wish to put in the system a requirement for employment. See, if we want to debirocratise, if we want to remove administrative obstacles, then we cannot take one step forward, but at the same time one step back. New jobs, new jobs will not be set up through such systems or new ones, but we need to make order here in another area. Here we have had the opportunity or more will have to be done on labour market reform. In the previous government, we have made a great deal of progress, only the National List of that proposal or so-called labour market reform has not supported us and the economy is telling us today, or practice, the effects in our business environment show that that reform has been too rootless and too weak. Colleagues and colleagues, with only sufficiently flexible labour legislation, we will give the opportunity to open new jobs and I fear that regulation in this kind of legislation will unfortunately not be enough. Therefore, if we want to have a simple tax system, and this was the main objective of the changes adopted under the previous government, then this major objective must remain in the future. As the National Charter advocates simplification and debarcation, I will support this bill because I believe it offers simplifications for the majority of entrepreneurs, for most business operators. In the course of the legislative procedure, if we are to see him in this mandate and if this opportunity is given to me, I will advocate to oppose sharpening or complicating the requirements for new employment in this package. This is just a fraction of what we can do today, a small step towards a better business environment. We've got a lot of other things ahead of us. Those countries that have successfully emerged from the crisis have, for example, introduced a so-called micro-enterprise tax. That is to say, we could also say so-called tax holidays, for which we, in the previous coalition, had taken up the opportunity, but it never saw the light of the world, that those companies that have, say, five, ten employees, were also less taxed than those large companies. But there's still a lot of things we need to do to make things normal. And even when I'm meeting a lot and talking to entrepreneurs, a lot of people tell me, because taxes themselves are not the problem, even if you have only 5, 10 employees, you need a human resources expert and a tax expert, and you need an entrepreneurial expert. However, as regards this assessment by the Ministry that this proposal, if adopted and in the final stage, will also come to life in practice, this will amount to a million 100 drawbacks for the state budget, I will say this. I am very happy to press for this million to stay in the economy, because the economy will know a thousand times better how to spend it and use it for development, for new jobs, rather than to spend millions on banks or to write referendums. The state must not be a parasite, for this I am happy to give my voice over and over again, but it must ensure that it is an effective and cheap service for citizens. As far as the grey economy is concerned, which some of you mentioned in this context. Yes, it is true that when we introduced this system in the previous government, we said that it was, or at least at the time, I understood that it was also a step towards eliminating the grey economy. Because if we have a simple system, someone who works in black or in this grey economy segment would much rather decide if they have to pay little taxes and if the system is easy to do fair, to report everything to the state than to actually hide it. Yeah, maybe it wasn't in this area that it wasn't enough or that it wasn't done enough. But you know, as far as this is concerned, our citizens must first and foremost feel that the country does not cut off too much of the cake or that the money we collect spends or spends effectively. And then the problem of the grey economy, I'm sure, will fall apart on its own. I would, of course, like this proposal to be an incentive for entrepreneurs, if it is to come to life in practice in the final stage. However, I would like to mention the case of one of our entrepreneurs from the White Land. My friend Pavlišič pointed him out yesterday. When the so-called team building was seeking to carry out or provide business advice in nature, she found that she needed a bicycle guide and a sports guide if her participants wanted to move from point A to point B. And what did she do? She did not have the will or energy to deal with Slovenian bureaucratic nonsense, but registered a company in Germany. And we have to fight it. We will also have to take huge small steps to say, "Yes, but the Slovenian business environment is encouraging for our entrepreneurs and the economy." In the Civil Gazette, it is not difficult for us to vote in favour of such proposals. And that's what's gonna happen today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The following will be discussed: Matthew Tonin, Andrej Vizjak, Marija Plevčak, Ivan Vogrin, Romana Tomc and Jožef Horvat. And for the first one, I give the word "magic." Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u201	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As today's debate appears and shows, however, this law may move forward, which is especially good for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship. Perhaps to all those who have any further doubts, let me say that this is a first reading and that this is the best opportunity to discuss these matters well and to complete and upgrade this law until the second reading. But those who are never wrong and disagree with each thing will always be able to comment on a number of studies and analyses on why this law is not appropriate to see the light of the world. To be very specific and very precise about what we are proposing with this law, let me make a comparison, first of all to say what the current regulation allows for entrepreneurs. Someone who has an annual turnover of up to EUR 50 000 can be included in flat-rate taxation. This means that, if we expect it to be easier to imagine, 50,000 euros of annual transport is recognised by this country for 70% of the standard costs, which means that your tax base is 15,000 euros. And out of these 15,000 Euros you pay the country 3,000 Euros. So with 50,000 annual traffic, you pay 3,000 euros in taxes. This is the current arrangement. What exactly are we proposing? In order to increase this limit for inclusion in flat-rate taxation to EUR 100,000 and to allow the state to recognise 80% of this amount as standard costs, or if I am even more specific if the entrepreneur has EUR 100,000 per year, its tax base is EUR 20,000, as the country recognises it as a cost. Of these, €20,000 will then pay 4000 tax. The difference between the old regulation is that you pay 3,000 Euros of tax for 50,000 Euros of transport, and you would pay 4,000 Euros of tax for our regulation. In some ways, it is also a tax burden for many companies. And we've proposed another piece of news. This is because, in order to be included in this flat-rate tax of over 50,000, between 50,000 and 100,000 euros, this company should necessarily have one employee. Why? My colleague, Hočevarov, objected to this provision by saying that it was an additional bureaucracy. This is not how we see it, because we are primarily preventing these flat-rate taxation from being a new type of money launderer. If a company creates 100,000 annual traffic, it is most likely that it has at least one employee. As a result, we do not see any additional red tape, but we are primarily trying to guide and make the law so that it can serve honest purposes. What will be the effect of this proposal? Prior to that, the Secretary of State said that, according to our proposal, an additional 6,000 new entities, an additional 6,000 new entrepreneurs, could be included in the flat-rate taxation. I think it's a nice number and make it easier for all these people. Given the differences in taxation under the old and new system, it is clear that the economy would be burdened by at least a million euros, which is another positive thing about this proposal. What seems crucial to me, however, is that we will finally make this proposal to all known fictitious accounts collection. Probably all of you know entrepreneurs who collect such and different accounts just because they lower their tax base, have a positive zero and pay no taxes on it. In our proposal, I am convinced that it is a fair arrangement for 100,000 annual transport to give 4 000 euros to the country in some way a reasonable tax, not an excessive tax, but, above all, to burden the entrepreneur with this really pointless and illegal collection of fictitious accounts. Most likely, there will be two obstacles that will be put in place to support or adopt this law. One thing is for sure what the financial impact on the budget will be, a little later, and the other is that this law should be followed by another thing, in order to increase the limit from either one or to which business entities or entrepreneurs do not need to be liable for VAT. Now this limit is set at 50,000 and it would be reasonable and logical to move this border from 50,000 to 100,000 euros in flat-rate taxation. This would actually open the way for this flat-rate taxation to be truly effective. Most likely, we will be warned by the Government that the Council of the EU must have the consent to raise the borders from 50 to 100,000 euros. I don't see any problem with that. Instead, the government will work hard to obtain this consent. If she got it for the first time, it went up from 25 grand to 50 grand, she's going to be 50 grand to 100,000 now. It probably won't be easy, but I don't think it's impossible. If we look at the Austrian case and the Austrian flat tax, then you can see that this is possible. And we can most likely rightly ask if something is possible in Austria, why this could not be the same in Slovenia. This is an argument that can be addressed very quickly and relatively easily with some normal part of the government. However, with regard to the budgetary implications themselves, I am sure that they will be positive in the long term. They may be negative in the short term, but in the long term, I am sure that the burden of the Slovenian economy and entrepreneurship will contribute to eventually raising more money in the state budget. At any forum, business or other where we talk about the Slovenian economy, all economic operators and entrepreneurs will be able to tell you that the problem of the Slovenian economy is, in particular, two things: entrepreneurship. One is over-taxation and the other is over-indebted by Slovenian companies. And this law, which is before you today, is in some way in some way saving or in some way reducing the tax burden on Slovenian entrepreneurship. I'm sure bigger than taxes, the more people run to the black economy. If I'm very specific, then I can tell you a lot of the cases we hear on the ground when people say. If I want to pay a thousand euros to the worker, I have to pay 2,000 euros for him as an employer. Many then wonder if it is easier, even though it is illegal, to get two black workers for the same costs and for the same money. The comparisons between European countries are eloquent. In Slovenia, you pay close to EUR 2 000 for the worker you give him a thousand euros. In Slovakia, you pay a thousand Euros for a worker for a thousand Euros. There are huge differences here. For the same salary the Slovenian entrepreneur pays 700 euros more tax. When we had many discussions recently, including in this Parliament or in this Chamber, many young people sat and debated a few days ago, talking about how to achieve greater employability of young people, there is no magic wand, but there is only one, that is, that young people would suddenly become a very competitive workforce if they were reduced or taxed on their jobs. Perhaps for consideration, if the young people were reduced by 50% in the first two years of undeclared employment, these young people would suddenly become a very, very competitive workforce, where any work through the student service would remain far behind. Regarding another problem facing Slovenian entrepreneurship is over-indebtedness. I don't think you have to lose a lot of words about this. Official institutions know very well and are taught to say that more equity is needed to eliminate over-indebtedness. It sounds very simple on paper. More equity can only be achieved in two ways: to sell or obtain a foreign partner or to reduce your tax burden and to leave you with more to pay off the credits paid by an undertaking. And again we have come to the beginning, and this is that our proposal would definitely contribute to the tax burden of Slovenian entrepreneurship. This has also been specifically assessed by the Secretary of State. It was said that for at least a million euros there is this tax burden. And secondly, I am sure that this proposal would also remove certain administrative obstacles that cause problems for entrepreneurs. For this reason, I hope that after today's debate there will be so much wisdom that this law will go forward at first reading, that you will not crush it at first reading, so that you will allow it to continue. Of course, there is plenty of room and opportunity for this law to be added and upgraded by the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! The law that is under consideration pursues the right goals. What is the characteristic of the business environment in Slovenia? Tax hell. That's the first feature. If the worker has a gross salary of 2,000 500 euros in Austria, the net income of a thousand 700, he has a thousand 300 in Slovenia. Where does 400 euros go for every paycheck? It's too much public administration, the public sector. The data show the following. For example, Austria or Switzerland, approximately the same ratios. Dear government representatives, how do you explain that Switzerland has 8 million inhabitants and 7 ministries, while Slovenia has 2 million inhabitants 13 ministries? And such relations in the public sector are in all areas. Another feature of the business environment in Slovenia is the overriding of regulations and the bistro bureaucratic nonsense that we have sown long and fast so that we can no longer see ourselves out. The next feature of the business environment is the inflexible labour market. It's hard to hire someone because you need a whole bunch of bureaucratic procedures, and it's even harder to fire someone. This is nowhere in developed and advanced, economically successful countries. Let's look across the border. I live 10 kilometers from the border. I live in Austria once a week. People say, Slovenians who have businesses there tell terrible stories, comparisons between Slovenia and Austria. And then, in Slovenia, it is the most profitable not to work. We have created not only the last 23 years of independent Slovenia, but also 45 years in Yugoslavia a culture of non-indigenousness. It was best to work in one of the public agencies, funds, sectors and have been in the green sector. The consequences of such a business environment are that companies move abroad. The second consequence is that companies do not want to hire anymore, so unemployment is not significantly reduced during the high season or when the economy should be pro-pulsive. The result is less tax collection and more grey economy. That is why this law, I think, an exception, is one of the bright points that would show support for Slovenia's slowly beginning to come out of grey and that people who want to work, who want to work so that we don't kill their will to work at first. In the last issue of Money, the Institute for Tax Advice, the former director of the Tax Administration of Slovenia, former director of the Serbian Tax Administration, Mr. Ivan Simič described that in 2012 he paid an income of 73,000 euros, in 2013, this is published publicly, so I can speak and in 2013 only 25 more, but in 2014 it will be even less, because companies abroad do not make sense to work in Slovenia because they are entraping you everywhere. We create a business environment where it will be worth doing, not bureaucratizing, not depositing papers from left to right of the table, because in Slovenia there is enough creativity, desire for work, only the business environment is extremely inappropriate. The law is worthy of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Get Marco Pogačnik ready, then Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In this short time, since the content has already been told by the proponents on our part, I would like to create a favourable environment for a good debate on how to create a good environment for the economy. I remember years ago, Mr Steve Ballmer, of the Microsoft Corporation, convened an international conference of developers. He came to the stage and on stage for more than half an hour screamed: "Developers, developers, developers...," which means, "developers, developers, developers..." He took off his jacket, all sweaty, with the power of his vocal cords at the end, and still: "Developers, developers, developers..." What did he mean by that? He was going to say that Microsoft's computer corporation is nothing if it doesn't have developers. Today there certainly is no hero in this arena who would dance, shout and shout: "Economic, economics, economy..." And I think we should all understand that. A key question is how to create a good business environment in Slovenia today for the growth of the economy. When the economy blooms, all other social systems will flourish and function well: from health care to education, which is very important. Normally, pension boxes will be filled, not from the budget, but from staff contributions. We need this moment about – we all know – about 60,000 new jobs, new employees. Where possible, high added value jobs. It is said, with well-paid jobs, where there are also relatively high contributions and taxes. So the growth of the economy will fill the budget and also create a good climate in society. Today, we have many depressed, especially young people who have a diploma in their pocket but do not have a job. And that's our problem. Let us take this micro step, such as amending this income legislation, trusting entrepreneurs and, believe me, we will not regret it. Let's make this move! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you, too. Mag. I don't see Mark Pogačnik in the hall, so he's the next Sonja Ramšak, and I don't see him in the hall either. Mr. Michael Prevc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! I must say, I am pleased with the debate we have heard so far. I see that Members and Members of Parliament are very responsible to think about this subject, and I am sure that you will give us, the proponents who propose this law tomorrow, a green light that the law is suitable for further consideration, that we will remedy the shortcomings and further improve the law in further procedures. Let me also point out briefly what the real purpose of this law is for me and how it can be done even in this short period of time, in spite of the government's dispersion, if I may say so, we will bring these two laws together to an end and, together, we will do something good for Slovenia's small enterprise. I'm sure we're on our way and we can do this. We know that, in fact, the purpose of this law is the administrative burden. This has, of course, been emphasized by every speaker today. We know that today, small entrepreneurs spend too much of their time on administrative matters alone, instead of focusing 100% on their activities. Their energy, we could say, is devoted to administration, accounting, the application of costs and, let's be honest, because no one is exactly happy to pay the tax, they're also using a lot of energy to show such and different fictitious costs to finally show a so-called positive zero. Of course, from a tax point of view, the country, as we know, does not have much of it, but sends inspectors and other supervisory authorities over the entrepreneurs. This legal package also allows larger entrepreneurs to pay a fixed tax on their income while at the same time suspending all accounting, proof of expenditure and all other bureaucracy. I am sure that in Slovenia there are many who are willing to pay some reasonable tax to the country if it will only leave them with their tax and other controls in peace, so that they can really devote themselves to their business. Let me mention that for entrepreneurs, the entire cost of accounting is gone, at least between a thousand 200 and a thousand 500 euros per year. A number of examples were already illustrated today. Maybe a very simple case. For example, an entrepreneur who generates 90,000 euros a year will pay the country 3,000 600 Euros a profit tax, but will fully save all the time and money he has to spend on collecting and keeping accounts and other evidence. At the same time, there will be no more fear of various inspectors looking for hair in the egg and writing penalties for errors in the management of business books. And in the end, some of this will also be available to the country, which currently endures very little. Last but not least, and this seems very important to me, and this proposal is also supported by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. This seems very important to me because I think it is right that it is a craftsman's room that knows the beat of small craftsmen and their problems. We are aware that at the beginning of this year, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Business carried out a full survey among its members, showing that such a proposal at a higher transport limit of at least EUR 100,000, what this proposal proposes, and a higher percentage of the standardised recognised expenditure of 80% are supported by craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. This is what the one who is supposed to be intended to do is supported by such a proposal. And that, of course, seems very important to me. We know that the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia has already requested the introduction of flat-rate taxation in small business entities, based on easier monitoring and accounting of their tax obligations. We know that in Slovenia there is a very complex system of accounting and tax accounting, and we know that such a system abroad is normal only for larger business entities. Simpler accounting and tax rules adapted to the small business entities we are talking about have Croatia, Austria, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States. In Slovenia, independent entrepreneurs use more complex and extensive tax legislation and accounting rules that apply to large companies. Standard taxation of small independent entrepreneurs and small and micro-enterprises which entered into force for both types of business entities with 1. 1. 2013 is only appropriate for a low-cost activity, such as intellectual and complementary activities. However, it is certainly not suitable for regular production services and service activities, where the share of material consumed is much higher. In particular, it is inappropriate for those who work. And maybe to the end. In my view, what we have heard at the outset, as the Secretary of State has said, seems to me that those technical calculations prepared by the Government are in fact not possible and are not a real indicator of how many people are actually going to choose to do so. So you can't just look at these things technically, in numbers, but life, so where is the point where the entrepreneur will be willing to pay something fixed to the state to leave it alone? In the Slovenian People's Party and with the co-proposer Novi Slovenije, we are convinced that this is a solution where all winners can be burdened by entrepreneurs, craftsmen and the country. The law may not be technologically complete and can be improved in many ways, but it is a basis for correcting it properly for the competent committee. I am sure that where there is a will, there is a way, and let us give this will with this optimism, with this willingness, which is demonstrated today in this debate, to continue this debate, and I really hope that this law will be worth further consideration by Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Alenka Jeraj, who I do not see in the Chamber. Mr Franz Bogovich is also not in the hall, Mr Jožet Tank is not in the hall. Master Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u209	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think that much has already been said about flat-rate taxation today and it is probably only necessary to add that in our country of Slovenia we will have to look at entrepreneurship differently. We are in such a crisis in the field of the economy, in the field of finance, that entrepreneurs will also need certain incentives. Not only those who are already entrepreneurs, but also those who actually want to create a new enterprise: whether it will be an independent entrepreneur or a limited liability company, it will be an unlimited responsibility. In short, there's a lot of these shapes. I think, given the state of the spirit in the country, according to the financial situation, the social situation towards entrepreneurship will have to have a different relationship with the Government. And within the government, the Ministry of Finance. Perhaps it would be good if, today, we had a government opinion, and although the government's opinion was formally likely to go through all government procedures, that we might still ask the Minister for the Economy for an opinion, whether he fully agrees with this opinion, which is essentially negative, which is such that it does not encourage solutions that would bring new jobs, new jobs and more revenue to the state budget. Looking at every idea, at every attempt, at every static proposal, from the point of view of any development, at the point of view that any matter that does not yield enormous amounts of revenue is already initially doomed to failure is not right. After all, the Government and the Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Government, are adopting solutions that also mean a fall in certain revenues if we look at excise duties. But also because some excise duties are rising and rising and then consumption is not falling, consumption remains stable and sales are falling. If such a policy is right and if any attempt is seen through these eyes to accelerate entrepreneurship to accelerate creativity to accelerate innovation, then we can call God help. Since we are in such a state, we cannot only say God help, but we must also say, of course, what will actually happen. The new government will be in a situation where a number of measures will have to be taken, including non-standard measures, because the situation will be such and the legacy of this government will be so critical. In this case, such a measure, including such a proposal, is welcome. If not otherwise, at least to give some thought to it, at least to discuss it, at least so that we may find other solutions in the end. The advanced "no" actually means that someone wants to get this economy, these entrepreneurs even more on their knees. After all, we're not taking anything today. Today, in fact, we only accept whether this law goes into further consideration or not. And that is what the debate is about today. I think that, in view of the further discussion, certain solutions will be found in this regard. I also hope that this law will be slightly rectified and that it will have the opportunity to be finally adopted and give better conditions for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you. The possibility of a word is also open to the proposer Franz Bogovich. He's not in the hall right now. I take it you've all been given the floor by the reported debaters who wanted to. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that a proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration, we will decide on Thursday, 22 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 5. 2014, in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of ten Members and Members, with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, there is a group of ten Members and Members, with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill to Mr Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! In fact, what are the objectives that led us to the amendment of the above-mentioned Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons? The proposed law pursues the aim of legislating a higher threshold for tax revenue, to be able to enter the tax base system for legal persons engaged in activities, taking into account the standardisation of expenditure and to increase the share of standardised expenditure to 80%. This will further increase the administrative burden on micro and small enterprises in meeting their tax obligations and increasing their legal certainty in relation to the greater certainty of tax base determination and the overall simplification of tax transactions. In fact, it is a very similar content as discussed in the previous paragraph in the amendment of the Income Act. The system of implementation of standardised expenditure will be accessible to a larger round of micro and small enterprises and the system will also become more business-friendly by increasing the percentage of standardised expenditure. In times of economic crisis, the greatest possible number of smaller business operators is to relieve the excessive and delayed management of records and preparation and collection of documentation for accounting services. By eliminating this, companies can devote more intensive attention to their core activities and business activities. Nor will they be concerned about tax checks and possible penalties in the face of complex rules, as flat-rate taxation is a much simpler business management system. A number of business entities in the system of standardised costs also involve the unloading of tax supervisors who can focus on other forms of control. The main objective is thus to promote economic activity in the small enterprise segment, to promote employment and to minimise the burden on the budget. The proposed law aims at further administrative burdens for micro and small enterprises in meeting their tax obligations and increasing their legal certainty in relation to greater certainty regarding the determination of the tax base. What, in fact, are we proposing? I want to illustrate the proposals in numbers and compare them with the arrangements we have so far. Let me remind you, the arrangements so far are the following. Pavšalist can be an economic company that does not exceed the annual turnover of EUR 50 000. Standardised costs shall be recognised at 70 %. So the tax base is 15,000 euros. We know the tax rate is 20%. So it's 3,000 euros tax today. And our regulation, our proposal, our new regime, I hope that it will be adopted: an economic company, a micro-enterprise and so on can be a flatlist if there is no more traffic at the annual level than EUR 100,000. There is a limit of €100,000 per year. Standardised costs are recognised at no more than 70%, but 80%, the tax base is EUR 20 000, the tax rate is unchanged – 20%, i.e. 4 000 euros. And what else is important here? In fact, we, somehow these micro-enterprises, the small economy, we oblige legal persons to enter this flat-rate taxation system only on condition that they have at least one full-time employee. In a way, we avoid or eliminate money launderers here. So an economic company must have at least one full-time employee. I believe it is so willing that the proposal signed by Members of New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party will have one honest debate [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and that we will really take some micro step in the right direction, in the right direction for the Slovenian economy. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u212	Thank you, too. For an introductory explanation of the Government's opinion, I give the word mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u213	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal for a law is substantively linked to the proposal for a law that we have dealt with under the previous item of the agenda and also in this area, the flat-rate taxation system has been introduced since 1 January 2013 and is applicable for one tax year. Tax accounts for corporate income tax were lodged with the tax authority by the end of April of this year and are being prepared for more detailed analyses. From this point of view, it is a fundamental observation by the Government of the proposed law that there is no analysis of the existing flat-rate burden on companies, and from this point of view it cannot be argued that the flat-rate taxation system in companies has not been brought to life due to a low income threshold or because of under-standard expenditure, which are the main changes in the law's proposal. From a substantive point of view, it is also important that the proposal constitutes an additional, in our view, disproportionate deviation from the fundamental principle of taxation by economic power. Some data from the existing system. Overall, in Slovenia, in 2012 – as it is said, the final figures for 2013 are not yet known – more than 24 000 companies, each creating up to €50,000 each year. However, a thousand 165 taxpayers could decide on the flat-rate taxation scheme under the current regime. Only a thousand 165 taxpayers would have a lower tax burden at the expense of flat-rate taxation compared to the regular tax procedure. If all those whose tax earnings would be lower were included, if they had an 80 % share of standard expenditure, and if they raised the threshold to 100,000 euros, then it would be more possible or more likely for around 700 taxpayers to be included in the flat-rate taxation system in economic terms. However, according to the 2013 Tax Administration, only 255 taxpayers opted for the flat-rate taxation scheme. The reasons for this moment cannot be discussed, given what I mentioned earlier, that the accounts were submitted by the end of April and the analyses are still being prepared. As in the case of the proposed amendment to the Income Act, we assess the need to examine the system of flat-rate taxation of enterprises and to find the reasons why the system in force does not come to life on a wider scale, and it is only on this basis that it is appropriate to prepare appropriate amendments to the law. In view of the above, we propose not to support the law, but we support further examination or analysis of the existing situation and the development of alternative proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u215	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! As it is said, this is the second law in the package, which stipulates that we will raise the threshold for entry into the flat-rate taxation system also for smaller companies, namely those with up to EUR 100,000. Since separate entrepreneurship and companies are regulated by different laws, the Income Tax Act should also be corrected in addition to the Income Act. In this respect, we also compare both categories from a tax point of view. As has already been said, we have not overlooked the fact that the Value Added Tax Act should also be amended, but since it is appropriate for the Council of the European Union to apply for consent in order to raise the entry into the value added tax system, it seems appropriate for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do so after we have adopted this legislation. As we know, these changes will not take effect until 2015. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are prepared for further discussions on the further improvement of both laws, of course if the government and all the remaining parliamentary groups are involved, which will support this law in the first reading, so that we have a coordinated and ready-to-examination case before the Home Committee. We can also talk about compulsory employment or the amount of standardised expenditure. As has already been said, small or micro-enterprises have exactly the same accounting obligations and tax forms as large companies with millions of incomes. This, of course, puts our micro and small enterprises in a less competitive position, in view of many other countries, which have very simplified tax legislation for small enterprises. The Chamber of Commerce mentions Croatia, Austria, Germany, Great Britain, the USA, also the Czech Republic and Italy have special arrangements and so on. So everywhere for smaller ones there is some possibility of simplified management of books, as well as of the paperwork relating to tax legislation, and why not try and arrange something like this for us. The point is that an entrepreneur or micro-enterprise will be burdened with accounting, collecting evidence for costs and other bureaucratic matters, while such an entrepreneur will still pay some tax to the State. In short, here we are all winners, both those who don't need to keep books anymore, maintain a balance sheet, pay for accounting services and the like, and be afraid of tax inspectors who will stick to every little thing, and on the other hand, of course, the country will have some of it. She will receive some tax, and at the same time, she can redirect her tax supervisors to major violators. In the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia we have examined this matter thoroughly, not so much from the numbers available to the Ministry of Finance, but mainly from practice. After discussions with craftsmen, we received signals that they would be happy to join the flat-rate system and are willing to pay something for it to the state, but this obligation should not be too high, otherwise it is more worth staying on proof of the actual costs. Unfortunately, some prefer to pay taxes, devote themselves to creative accounting and thus avoid paying the tax, and the state has virtually nothing to do with it. If I finish. Most of it has already been said today, and I can say that we have spoken with few exceptions and have actually found a similar one. Indeed, some of the issues remain open, but I do not see any major problems in this, as all the issues are resolved and, given your discussions under the previous law, the possibility of agreement and harmonisation is fully feasible. Therefore, let me invite you, as you have predicted, to support both laws at first reading, and then in a very short period of time, we will meet together to harmonise the law and do something good for Slovenia's small economy and entrepreneurship. Today, for the first time, I have also been given the feeling that the parliamentary positions were not coalition or opposition-coloured, but that the approach was very reasoned, and that if we continue to do so, we can adopt both laws, which in the end will not be the law of the Slovenian People's Party and of New Slovenia, but the law of the entire National Assembly. Thus, in these political times, we will only give a signal to people that we can do something for the good of people together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u216	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Say good-bye to everyone again! The previous point that we have considered is the amendment to the Income Act, which essentially has the same substantive solution as the amendment to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. The position of the Group has not changed with regard to content. I wouldn't repeat the arguments because I already mentioned them at the previous point of today's session. Perhaps I would only add that in these changes, the Chamber of Commerce and Entrepreneurs is very active, in particular in that part, I will quote, "that we already have the smallest independent entrepreneur in classical taxation of his profits to know a number of complex accounting and tax rules and legislation". Therefore, according to the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, the so-called flat-rate taxation imposed by administrative burdens in this administrative and financial area is necessary. It may be true that the proposed solutions would extend the range of businesses and espies, in particular due to the fact that the legislation currently in force benefits only companies engaged in service activities, so-called consultants, who do not actually have tax-recognised expenditure. As I am aware, the Ministry of Finance is already examining the market situation and the budgetary implications. Nevertheless, in our Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we would point out that this segment of the small economy is largely under attack, especially due to crisis situations and competition working in black, whether flat or regular taxation. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will vote on the proposal in our conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, as always, will vote in their conscience. However, I guarantee that we will support this law, or firstly, the proposal for a law suitable for further consideration. I also believe that the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will endeavour to have relevant analyses by 2013. What led us to write this bill together with colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party? Re-awareness that this small economy represents almost 99% of the total Slovenian economy, that it is a step by which the legislator actually expresses confidence in the small economy. Look, we have to work more on trust in our society. Let me now proceed with concrete content. Colleagues and colleagues, flat-rate taxation for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs is one of the important measures in the field of administrative unloading, both from the point of view of business entities and from the point of view of the tax authority in the exercise of tax control. Accounting is complicated for craftsmen and small businesses, as it is necessary to know the extensive tax legislation and to monitor its changes, which are very common. Accounting rules and standards should also be known. For this reason, accounting services are mostly provided by authorised accounting services. Of course, accounting services are also relatively expensive. Not only the financial burden, but also the burden of responsibility for the correctness of the accounts remains with craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. In fact, it is essential that the smallest business entities are also regularly and indirectly aware of the applicable tax and accounting rules to the same extent as those of large economic operators, which are managed through specific own departments or departments and employed experts with relevant expertise in this field. As early as 2012, the government in which we participated as a coalition party took an important step towards the administrative unloading of small entrepreneurship. True, I must admit that we were very careful when we talked about numbers; you will immediately see which numbers I mean. It introduced the possibility of flat-rate taxation for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs and set the annual turnover threshold of EUR 50 000 or, better, only EUR 50 000 for this form of taxation. This step brought us closer to the regulatory framework for flat-rate taxation, as had been introduced a long time ago by many European countries, including Austria and Germany, which have made it easier and easier for smaller business entities to record business events or, in other words, have given them more confidence. However, the threshold for flat-rate taxation of craftsmen – we meet them when we visit them on the ground throughout Slovenia – and small entrepreneurs is set too low and as a result fewer entrepreneurs are included in the flat-rate taxation system, such as the actual interest in this mode of taxation, and less than we expected in 2012. But it is important not so much to look at the 2012 static analysis, but it seems to us that it is important to be an interlocutor with craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. It is said that their problems must be discussed and problems resolved, such as the legislator's function. In particular, smaller growing companies do not decide on such a tax system because they have exceeded the price of EUR 50 000 per year in the current year and are thus obliged to manage classical accounting on the basis of actual revenues and actual expenditure. If we really want, colleagues and colleagues, to do something to make it easier for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, a threshold of 100,000 euros is needed. We Christian Democrats have therefore decided to table a proposal for amendments to the Law on corporate income tax in this direction. So it's not about tax relief, it's about simplification. In particular, we stress the need to increase the level of flat-rate expenditure from the current 70 per cent to 80% so that flat-rate taxation is appropriate and acceptable for a larger range of business operators. It may not be too much to point out, however, that neighbouring Austria has a certain ceiling for entry into flat-rate taxation of EUR 200 000 per year. So this is twice as much as if our law, which we are currently considering, was passed. It is normal and logical for me to predict by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats my support for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons at First reading and to invite all colleagues and colleagues to participate constructively in further discussions. We're not gonna own this marriage. Certainly not the Slovenian People's Party. This will be the law of the House, that is, the 90 of us, and I hope that it will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u220	Thank you, too. Master Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party will have the same position as that of amending the Income Tax Act. I propose that, given that economic operators should have a level playing field, but that there are one economic operators in tax laws, these are the independent entrepreneurs dealt with in the Income Act, so that we adopt the Income Act and the other in the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, these are legal persons, so that all political parties have the same view of both laws. It would be very wrong, on the one hand, to allow legal persons additional censorship, flat-rate taxation, but not for the other. Then we would actually set unequal conditions for management and this would be a complete mess. In view of the fact that I also heard some different views of some political parties who said they were against the first law, then through their conscience and so on. This would be very appropriate here, at least from a professional point of view, in order for this to actually happen. The same view shall be taken: either positive to both or negative to both. However, there are certain differences when we talk about the taxation of legal persons and the taxation of independent entrepreneurs. The first difference is definitely the employee. In view of the fact that the Income Act proposes the introduction of an additional employee of 50,000 euros, it is said that at least one employee in companies with turnover of more than 50,000 euros will be the same for legal persons. Here I should point out that an independent entrepreneur is already considered to be an automatic employee and then it is necessary to arrange it in a different way, and legal persons can actually operate without employees, without regular employees, and here is a matter that actually needs to be settled. Given the situation in entrepreneurship and the data provided by the Ministry of Finance for Legal Persons, it seems that the new 700 taxpayers for flat-rate taxation are something that this is not negligible. This is not negligible especially when we have debtors who are actually failing. If we look for independent entrepreneurs, how many bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated in legal persons, we can find that in 2012 595, and in 2013 941 bankruptcy proceedings. And how many deletions were made from the legal persons register in 2013? 541 and 453 in 2012. These are the official I.P.S. Considering there's 700 new ones, it's not that small. And if we keep talking about how many bankruptcys were in 2012 and 2013 and how many are unemployed because of this, it is an incentive for more debtors to become so that they can be taxed on a flat-rate basis, that is not a small amount. I think that today there is such a situation in the country that it is necessary to fight for every entrepreneur, regardless of the legal form in which it works. Here I would appeal to the Ministry of Finance to support this law or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to carry out further analyses until further consideration. The point of view that this law is not supported, but that further analysis is to begin, you know, mainly by stalling. I understand that the government is now operating only on an operational level, on an operational level, but I think we could do so much to actually do these analyses already. After all, it doesn't take me to know how long. In other words, I think that the law needs to be supported, but all the issues that are topical – both as regards entry into the value added tax system and as to whether or not 100,000 euro is appropriate for all activities – should also be examined for legal persons. One of the main reasons why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support this law is that it upholds the fundamental principle of taxation by economic power. We are now in economic power and with different legal and natural persons. Economic power is likely or at least the government is probably interpreting economic power on the basis of certain criteria. It would be good to hear what these criteria are and how economic power is determined. How to identify the economic power of a multinational and how to determine the economic power of an independent entrepreneur with 25,000 Euros of turnover or a sole entrepreneur with 30,000 Euros of turnover in one year. The criteria are important. I understand that the Ministry of Finance is likely to comply with the criterion: income, profits, wages and so on. But I would like to point out here that these are not the only criteria. These are not the only criteria, especially in times of crisis. Such a criterion may also be wrong, or that the wrong result, the wrong view of simply saying that marriage is not appropriate, will be analyzed and so on. After all, it would be good to know what the expectations of the government were when this solution was actually introduced for the first time and what further options there are and what further steps may be taken to ensure that more people are able to make this decision. But don't let the government get in the way, because that's an option. The debtors may or may not decide to do so. Let us give the debtors the opportunity to decide if they think they will operate this way better if they feel that they will have less operating costs if they feel that they will have a better position on the market if they feel that they will be more competitive to even export. Let the bureaucrats stop doing what's right for some taxpayer, for some company, for what's right, and for what's wrong. And what activity is one that needs to be encouraged and which is one that is not. Be assured that entrepreneurs know better, not bureaucrats. The proposal is also for the Slovenian Democratic Parties to examine, in particular, the pre-recognized expenditure or costs of individual activities. These activities include so-called advisory activities, some legal advice, financial advice and so on. But please stop the bureaucrats from figuring out what's good for companies and what's not good for businesses, because we're not going anywhere with this. I think that this idea needs to be developed, and we will also support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, so that it can be further considered and that we will, of course, find out in further consideration all the pitfalls of this legislation. We will also find traps as to whether one natural person can have multiple such companies or just one company, because then these revenues multiply, give certain solutions in this regard, and I do not think that this will be a problem for the law not to be adopted in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u222	Thank you, too. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, which is ahead of us, increases the ceiling or threshold for entry into the system of standardised expenditure from the current €50,000 to €100,000 and raises the amount of standardised expenditure from the current 70% to 80% taxation of recognised revenue. The measure is, in the first place, a welcome and intended administrative burden on small, micro-enterprises and the reduction of fixed costs for the management of business books. The proposer believes that by raising the income threshold we will cover the most promising part of the Slovenian economy, i.e. companies that are innovative, dynamic and create new jobs. While we welcome the proposal to simplify the business management system in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we believe that we would gain more by raising the amount of standardised expenditure from the current 70% to 90% of tax-recognised revenue. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we support all systemic and structural improvements, whose mission is a more business-friendly environment. We welcome the basic objective of the bill, this is to promote economic activity in the small, micro-enterprise segment and to promote employment. We are aware of the importance of small entrepreneurship and the creation of new, much-needed jobs. However, we all know that companies that generate turnover of EUR 100,000 and would achieve 20% of their profits in these frameworks are very few. Otherwise, the entrepreneur does have the option of deciding whether to be included in the tax base system by taking into account standardised expenditure, but in the Positive Slovenia Group we are not convinced that the addition of the law in question in the proposed way would have positive effects in the long term. The bill, as it is, does not take into account the recent aspect at this time. The proposed taxation also violates the principle of equality. Amendments to the law will only make sense once an appropriate analysis of the 2013 revised system of standardised expenditure has been carried out. For all the reasons mentioned in the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia is not opposed to the proposal for a law, but we will be definitively defined in further discussions, where further clarifications of the applicant are expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u224	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u225	Your Honor! This law also pursues similar objectives as the proposal for amendments to the Income Act. The proposal therefore proposes to increase the ceiling of revenue established under the rules on accounting for entry into the standardised expenditure system from the current EUR 50,000 to EUR 100,000; an additional condition for entry into the system of standardised expenditure for the debtors whose income exceeds EUR 50,000 should be paid by the taxable person at least one full-time worker for at least 6 months; an increase in the amount of standardised expenditure from the current 70 to 80% of the tax revenue recognised. In this case, too, the Social Democrats note that the proposal does not contain concrete assessments, analyses and financial effects. Such a measure constitutes a disproportionate deviation from the basic principle of taxation, namely from the principle of taxation by economic power. These changes would not constitute a significant administrative simplification, due to the obligation to keep business books for business purposes under the GAG-1 and the non-compliance with the VAT system entry threshold of EUR 50 000. It shall be noted that the minimum number of taxable persons eligible for entry shall be decided on entry into the flat-rate taxation scheme. In 2013, 255 debtors entered the system, or only 0.9%. This means that the taxpayers behave rationally and take into account the spectrum of all factors affecting their business and not merely the tax aspect. A data-based impact simulation for 2012 shows that, following the current regime, a thousand 165 creditors would join the system. As a result of the increase in the share of standardised expenditure to 80%, 408 additional debtors would join the system, with an increase of EUR 100,000 on the proposed condition for one employee and an additional 685 debtors. The overall financial impact of the amendment of the law to these thousands of 848 debtors would be around €615,000 lower than the corporate income tax. Of these, €42 000 will be paid at the expense of the debtors, who would have paid their entry already under the current conditions. On this point, the parliamentary group will be against the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u226	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you. Your Honor! Today we are dealing with a twin: the income law we have already discussed and the corporate income tax law we are talking about. Why a twin? Both marriages say the same thing about the same things, only the debtors are others. Liabilities under the Law on the Income of Legal Persons are businesses, parts, heritage and activities, while independent entrepreneurs were included in the draft law that we have previously discussed, the Income Act. And what does the motioner want to enforce? In the case of legal persons, the proposer also proposes to increase the ceiling or threshold of income for entry into the standardised expenditure system from the current €50 to €100,000. Furthermore, it proposes to increase the amount of standardised expenditure from the current 70 to 80% of tax-recognised revenue, and further conditions for the entry into the system of standardised expenditure for the debtors whose revenue in the calendar year preceding the tax period for which the system of standardised expenditure is established to exceed EUR 50 000, i.e. the taxable person must, during the tax period, employ at least one full-time worker for at least 6 months. If I make it a little bit easier for the taxpayers who generate up to €100,000 per calendar year, expenditure of 80% of the recognised revenue would be recognised according to the proposal. At a 17 % rate, only 20% of the revenue recognised would be taxed, but only if the company had employed at least one full-time worker, and that half a year. Of course, it should be mentioned that this law was already changing in 2012, when the possibility of paying taxes was introduced through standardised expenditure. It was first used for 2013. We had already discussed some of the participants in the direction that the border should be raised to the limit of EUR 100,000. And then the coalition overheard this debate. It is interesting that today a part of the then coalition proposes exactly what they did not want to hear and observe in 2012. Of course, today's proposal is somewhat incomplete. This is how we talk about the need for change because it is the most promising part of the Slovenian economy. At the same time, on the other hand, we have official information that says that, at the time of the adoption of the current law, it has been assessed that more than a thousand people will enter the system. According to Dursa, only 255 debtors entered the system in 2013. This is an important information because the applicants in their proposal provide for mandatory entry into the system of taxation after standardised departures. On the contrary, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that the debtors must make their own decision on the basis of all the factors affecting their business. The second observation of the novelty goes in the direction of the amount of recognised expenditure. They are expected to be recognised at 80% of the recognised revenue. Why exactly 80% is not clear. It is not clear on the basis of which the analysis is able to conclude that there is exactly 80 limits to be legalised. In the light of the law in force, which placed the border on 70% of the tax revenue recognised. The third feature of the novel is the VAT entry threshold. In order to achieve a reduction in administrative burdens and fixed costs of keeping business books, it is also important to consider VAT and keeping the book of receipts and invoices. So we should also raise the VAT threshold and we know what this means? If I take the view of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. The Group of Non-Aligned Members supports any solution that would lead to a decommissioning of the economy, particularly the small and micro economy. Discharges can be tax in nature, they can be administrative, with a common objective of more favourable conditions of employment for businesses. Of course, while ensuring legal certainty and equal treatment. At the time of the adoption of the current law, we wanted the threshold for entry into the flat-rate taxation system to rise to €100,000. We weren't heard at the time. Today, we have something similar in front of us. The Group of Non-Aligned Members of Parliament will support the draft law in the first reading. We will support it conditionally, in order to hold a broader debate and make decisions based on analyses and decisions that will take the above-mentioned findings at least seriously. As we say, we will support all the solutions for the recovery of the economy, whether proposed by the coalition or by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u228	Thank you, too. This concludes with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. The first one has the word, Mr. Jože Horvat. Get ready for Master Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u229	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to all the representatives of the parliamentary groups who have expressed your views. Now, on behalf of the proposers of this bill, I can say that I will listen very carefully to all your comments, which will follow the debate and, of course, we will then try to take them into account and improve the text of the bill in the second reading. Maybe just one more piece of information, because we like to compare ourselves with the single European market and also with the conditions of other companies, we are now talking about companies, i.e. legal persons in this law, and of course we are comparing ourselves with what the business environment is like either in neighbouring countries or in other European Union Member States. Then, of course, we find agreement very quickly on a concrete question why a relatively large number of economic operators are moving abroad, in particular to Austria. We heard several times here in this hall about the famous small brewery from Gornja Radgona, which moved to Austria. It should be said that there is an opportunity for an entrepreneur to choose a flat-rate mode of taxation if he has annual revenues of no more than EUR 200 000. We are now proposing €100,000 with this proposal. Once again, I say that in 2012, when the government in which we were a coalition partner was also weighing and in coalition coordination, we weighed whether this threshold was 50 thousand, we had no particular analysis because we did not have this flat-rate taxation, and it was not possible to do the analysis, so once again I appeal to the Ministry of Finance and I believe that it will be so good of will that this analysis will be available by the second reading of this bill. Finally, we have a strong information system on the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, so it is such an analysis to make a really small lunch. That will make it easier for us to make decisions, and perhaps even to reject the dilemmas that have been raised today as an indication to the applicants that we have not submitted analyses. They're gone. If Durs does not have them, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party do not have them anymore. We only have some grades, but when we discuss them in an argument, we need to have exact data. When I read the analyses that were specifically made by one of the famous Faculty of Ljubljana University, I will not do an advertisement that asked potential foreign investors, asked 142, statistical sample 142, and these potential foreign investors talked about the 24 obstacles they face in Slovenia if they want to invest here, it is said to open an economic company, part or any other form. And what obstacle is in the first place? First of all, there's an obstacle called high taxes and a complex tax system. What's interesting is that we all need to be taught. These were evaluated by potential foreign investors with an estimate of 3.5 for this obstacle, a tax barrier, in 2008 – 3.5. What does that mean? I'll describe it. If evaluated by estimate 1, this would mean that taxes are irrelevant to a foreign investor. If assessed with an average rating of 5, this would mean that the tax regime is crucial for a foreign investor. The estimates are as follows: in 2008 – score 3.5 – 3.37, 2010 – 3.74, 2011 – 3.8, then in 2012 slightly fell – 3.65 and last year, 2013 – 3.94. Therefore, it is very close to the assessment that tax regulation is crucial for a foreign investor. This step that we will take, I am sure that there is so much will for all of us to do, is one small step, however, how to simplify this tax regime from a complicated form a little bit. A craftsman, a small and micro entrepreneur, because you know he doesn't want to deal with papers. He would like to do that core business of his, as the Slovenian term or English core business. Why? Because he's home because he enjoys it most. That's what he does with some passion, what we see when we walk in the field, we visit them. So in fact, the papers for each craftsman are the last concern, and then there is the fact that there are mistakes, which then causes even more problems. And not only with tradesmen, taxpayers, but also with the supervisory authority. This amendment to the law in some way also provides some relief for the supervisory authority. It is also said to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia that it will probably not be necessary to invest so much energy in the control of taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Ivan Vogrin, prepare Mr Michael Prevc, followed by Mr Brane Golubovic, then Mr Franz Bogovic and Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, marriage is worth supporting. I hope that he will receive support in the first reading, that he will also be accepted in the final version with possible additions. Why? In fact, the law terminates the longstanding practice of increasing the burden of the economy. And Winston Churchill was certainly a wise man. What he said: "Some view the economy as a tiger predator to be shot. Others feel like a dairy cow." Well, this is more of a Slovenian case. The state apparatus thinks it's a dairy cow, you just have to milk it. But it still needs to be fed a little bit. Feed. This economy needs to be kept alive. Good nutrition, favourable conditions to create, and then this economy will give you plenty of milk. My neighbor has 30 dairy cows, and he knows that very well, but it's strange that a state apparatus with a bunch of science doctors doesn't know that. Says Winston Churchill: "Only a minority sees in him a strong horse that can carry on the entire society." And that's what we need. We need the progress of the whole society. Why may this marriage differ significantly from those of previous times? Because he didn't create it because he wasn't prepared by a bureaucrat. The bureaucratic apparatus, together with the political apparatus, has lost contact with reality, is closed in its mechanism, in its armor and is aware of the harsh reality that before the company can pay the tax, it must settle all other obligations. And it's hard to make one euro. I suggest to those who do not think so – try this. That's something to be tasted. I've been doing this for 20 years, and you know, when you have 80 employees, that's a terrible burden. Mr Stepišnik, I can see that he's holding me here, and I'm sure we understand each other. Why am I a little sad right now? I'll tell you why. Dr. Danilo Türk said when he was still president that we Slovenians are perfectly capable of going political drifting. And that's true. When we have a political issue here in Parliament, Parliament is full here. Now I think I see nine Members of Parliament from 90. So exactly one tenth. Maybe I'm wrong. Well, we are Members of our own at the highest percentage, given the percentage of employment in the National Assembly. So I expect my colleagues and colleagues to be very actively involved in the adoption of laws that will keep our dairy cow alive so that this dairy cow, after Winston Churchill, will give a lot of milk to the state apparatus or the public sector, which is now about 160,000 people, I think in a few years it will fall to 110 000, which is normal, can live well and prosper well. Even in the state apparatus, in the public sector, it is actually embarrassing that we have created such conditions that people have 600 euros in wages. So let's make sure that the economy can work well. And this law is one of those who will make it possible. We are also preparing decent pay conditions for the public sector. It is difficult to work hard for 600 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Ms Aleksandra Osterman is on the list in front of Mr Mikhael Prevc. I'm sorry I didn't say that before. Here you go, Mrs. Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, I will briefly present our views. Since I came from entrepreneurship to politics, I am well aware of these problems. We know that the profit of an independent entrepreneur is also his salary, in the case of companies or legal persons, and in part the profits represent the amount with the already deducted salary of the owner. If we look at it, there is actual revenue, for example 70,000 realisations by an economic company, 70% of the recognised costs is €49 000, 30% of the tax base on legal persons' income is €21,000, which is paid by an economic operator or entrepreneur about €4 thousand. However, we need to know that micro-enterprises or small enterprises have very difficult revenues of EUR 100 000 or even if they reach those revenues, it is very rare that the profit is 20%. I have devoted quite a bit of time to this sum of days alone, as well as to my former colleagues, because I also come from this area and have some practice. The profit for these micro and small enterprises involved in the production of the activity is around 10%. Rarely are companies that earn up to this amount or realise 100,000 euros 20%. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we are not against this; this is an incentive, including an administrative incentive, we advocate that entrepreneurs have much too much time to deal with administration, with accounting legislation, and that many also do not know this area sufficiently, rather than allowing time spent to study laws and how to be as creative as possible in adjusting balance sheets to create in their company. For parts, it would also be okay if 90% of the standard costs were recognised and 10% of the profit then, but I don't think this is going to work. Of course, it is very important for an entrepreneur to decide for himself whether to go into this system or remain in the old system, which is also encouraging, so that we do no harm in supporting it. In addition, I would like to say that this relief is primarily taken into account, with a 10% increase in the recognition of standard costs to 80 and 20 then in profit, in companies dealing with intellectual services with some higher added value, in companies that do not have as much costs as manufacturing companies and so on. In Positive Slovenia, we do not oppose this amendment of the law, but we expect further clarifications from the proposer in future discussions and discussions. Let me stress, however, that in Positive Slovenia we are absolutely on the side of promoting the economy, administrative burdens, so we have no objection to these changes. However, following further explanations from the applicant, we will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. My colleague has already taken from my tongue what I wanted to replicate somewhere to my colleague Jerič, in particular that the entrepreneur can decide for himself whether or not to go into the flat-rate taxation system – that is, it is not mandatory, given its costs. This seems very important to me for today's decision to support this law. I would also like to say that it has been heard several times today that, above all, at a time when the pre-election time is already beginning, that, above all, such and different lines of opposition are coming, perhaps even somewhat populism and like proposals. I must tell you that the Slovenian People's Party as a proponent is already in the coalition and not in the opposition, as we were then, we have already advocated in the coalition that this threshold should rise to 100,000, but then we have reached only 50,000 euros in coalition coordination. As a matter of fact, our position has been clear from the start. Maybe there's just something else about this marriage that's actually a twin with the first one. We can say that these two laws are completely in the package, and as I have already said in my position, because entrepreneurship and companies are regulated in different laws, the law on income tax on legal persons should also be corrected in addition to the law on income. That's the law. And I have also said this in my very view because it is necessary to ask the Council of the EU for its consent to raise the VAT system, and it seems appropriate for us to do so by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And we are confident that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will gain this consensus by correct explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Brane Golubovic has the floor. He's not in the hall right now. The next one is Mr. Franz Bogovich. He's not in the hall either. It's mag. Mr Andrej Šircelj, the representative of the Government and then Mr Joseph Horvat as the proposer. Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u237	Thank you very much again. I think that this bill needs to be supported, and after all, it is the first acquaintance who also promises better business conditions for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. It must also be supported in order to start symbolically with different measures. To this day, only new taxes and increasing debt have been received from Alenka Bratusek and her governments. This will, on the one hand, relieve entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs from doing business when they do business, and increase competitiveness. Such measures actually introduce some additional optimism particularly for those who are unemployed today. We know there are almost 130,000 unemployed today. A lot of them want to do business. I know he can start doing business in the current system. However, motivation and stimulus are certainly greater if this regime is extended to greater traffic and thus ensures greater stability for individual entrepreneurs. I expect the proposer to take into account the solutions or concerns we have made well-intentioned in this debate, both in terms of the volume of traffic, both in terms of the percentage of recognised expenditure on individual activities, in order to take into account the specificities that independent entrepreneurs have in relation to legal persons and to include solutions in further consideration of the law, so that this law will be actually easy to implement and easy to understand and to encourage entrepreneurship in Slovenia. Only entrepreneurship in Slovenia today can lead Slovenia out of the crisis, from a crisis in which we are deeply also because the most creative, innovative people in the past have not supported themselves. They did not support themselves with additional bureaucratic obstacles, with indolence sometimes of government officials, because they were on another world such as public servants. However, the fact is that an entrepreneur has to earn his salary on the market, that his salary is not secure every month, that it depends on the market and the fact is that in public administration we get a salary every month of the same day. Also at the expense of debt. For this reason, I hope that this is the first acquaintance of spring and that we will soon adopt this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u238	Thank you very much. He has the floor as a proposalr, Mr Joseph Horvat. There will be no debate on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members and colleagues for the debate. To tell you the truth, I wanted more discussion. Of course, I also thank the government for its opinion. I would like the government to accept our request for analyses that are likely to be possible within the next few days or weeks. There were some concrete proposals by Master Andrei Shirtzl, a colleague of Aleksandra Osterman. This encourages us to make further calculations before the second reading, and I believe that we will all be able to make a more optimal text together. I see that there is some kind of affection and, as it is said, this will be the law of the House. This will not be the law of New Slovenia and of the Slovenian People's Party, because we will need votes from a significantly larger number of Members. Once again, I would like to say that the professional public and the professional media, if I may say so, have responded positively to these proposals, although I am not competent to make such assessments. Some point out, however, that more than €50,000 is needed to enter the value added tax system. But here we have warned the Government by letter and let me remind you that both of them will be laws, so this twin will enter into force for the tax year 2015. We have plenty of time when both laws will be passed, so that we can also properly adapt the value added tax law together with the European institutions, of course. The information I read in the paper is as follows. 15 000 703 were natural persons who are active and are currently standardised, this is included in flat-rate taxation, this year. At the end of 2013, there were 13 thousand 368 companies falling under the Law on corporate income tax, so 329 are companies that are currently standardised. There were 251 last year. A very important leap from last year's year to this year when we're talking about legal persons. But as we say, more detailed and verifiable analysis, I hope we can bring it to another treatment. I thank you for the majority affection and support of this twin, at least that's what I've been detecting, and I believe we're going to get both laws under the roof just in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-21-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u240	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If you would like to discuss a representative of the applicants or the government, please sign up. No, no, no. I note that all the debaters who wanted to have had a debate, so I am closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow, on Thursday 22 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. With beautiful greetings and a happy journey!
