ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the third meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Violeta Tomić, Marija Bachič, Ksenija Rootjak Kramar, Miha Kordiš, Janez Janša, Franz Breznik and Igor Zorčič from 15:00 on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, President of the Sport Mag Foundation Council. Mr Katja Koren Miklavec on agenda 14 and representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 5 December 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the items from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on two proposals for extending the agenda. First time. The Government proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly should be extended by 7 a.m., i.e. the Proposal for a Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2015 following an urgent procedure. You have received the proposal for enlargement together with the proposal for that Law 10. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Does the representative of the Government want to speak as a proponent of enlargement? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Thus, there will be no presentation of views on the proposal for enlargement and we can move on to a decision. First of all, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It's 57 votes against 17. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. According to the meeting’s timetable, the National Assembly will consider this item on Tuesday, 16. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We have another proposal to extend the agenda. The Government proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly should also be extended by a point of 7b, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, following an urgent procedure. You have received the proposal for enlargement together with the proposal for that Law 10. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Does the President of the Government, or the representative of the government, want to speak about this? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it is very unusual that the Government, which has proposed an extension of the agenda with this and also with the previous item on the agenda, does not explain its request. Especially since he's got a chance to do that. We will not support this enlargement by proposing a law on the implementation of the budget, because in our view it is a very unsystematic approach by the Government in regulating public finances. This will now be the second proposal within two months as regards the law on budget implementation, and it is likely that in January, when the Government introduces the 2015 budget rebalancing, there will be a third law on budget implementation in the next three months. I think that this is proof that things are no longer happening as regards the preparation of financial measures, in a systematic way. In this way, it will be difficult to consolidate anything and the review of the measures will also be lost if we consider the same law three times within three months following an emergency procedure. As regards the proposal for measures in this Act, which is covered, it is, in fact, somewhat unusual, even though you have agreed on certain things with the public sector unions, I find it rather illogical that, with regard to the reduction of public sector employment, this is estimated at only 1% if the natural outflow is converted to 40 years of work, two and a half years. This is said to have barely covered a good third of the natural outflow as a key government action in the resolution of public finances. Only a third. When you say that this is some big success in negotiations with trade unions, it's actually not serious. Another area that is not properly regulated is the area of purchases and other related matters. I believe that such partial non-systemic measures, ineffective measures, are not even appropriate under the emergency procedure, especially since it is a roof law that introduces or monitors the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u3	Any other opinions? No, no, no. This concludes my presentation of the views on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 26. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In accordance with the meeting’s timing, the assembly will consider this item on Tuesday, 16. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision to set the agenda in full. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have adopted with reference to it and the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the agenda for the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received 44 written applications for questions sent to me within the deadline of business. The order of the question is set in accordance with 244. Articles 245 and 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by Members of Parliament and members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's sent question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar. The question of dispatch will be asked first by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u4	Hello! Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello visitors and visitors, esteemed assembly, Government, Mr President! During the process of independence of Slovenia, we talked about polycentric socio-space development and where we are today. Interregional and intra-regional differences are growing. The way you live or where you live is increasingly determined by how you live. The country is highly centralised, one hand can count institutions of national importance that do not have a seat in Ljubljana. With a centralised country, we have municipalities with a lot of obligations and more empty municipal cash registers. It is not just ours and my Maribor, who has emptied the municipal cash register in recent days and is in the spotlight with a social bomb. Many municipalities, not only currently the most indebted and often peripheral, are on the verge of bankruptcy. For example, the municipality of Litija with its registered investment in a social security centre, the municipality of Laško with an unfortunate concession to a German concessionaire for water treatment and could also list. The current situation is due to a network of local and regional political and economic elites provided by old policies and covered by self-declared legal elites. It is enough to read the Court's audit reports to see this systemic problem, that if I use the language of conversation, the legalized theft of the predatory class. Political elites have not been able to formulate national and regional development policies in 20 years. Increasing differences are very much hidden with inventive methodologies in statistics, but reality is becoming more and more on the agenda. Unfortunately, hardships lead people into tragic acts. The executive authority either doesn't understand or doesn't want to see it. At times, however, governments are somewhat confused by intervention laws and promises that are not being fulfilled. Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the State must create conditions for the consistent civilisation and cultural development of all parts of Slovenia. It is the duty of all governments, including the present one, to ensure an equivalent quality of life for all citizens and residents of Slovenia, regardless of where they live. Therefore, Mr President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask you: What measures will you take to address the social and economic problems of neglected, increasingly vulnerable regions? How will you ensure more even development of Slovenia, in which quality of life will not depend on where someone was born or where someone resides? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u5	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u6	Honorable Assembly, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Dear colleague Trcek, thank you for this question. Let me answer through two dimensions. The first is, of course, the general orientation of this government, and I hope that even the entire policy in the period in which we enter, of course, will strive for those legislative and other general measures that will contribute to the more successful development of regions, municipalities, in short, local environments. On the other hand, I would mention, perhaps even begin with, concrete responses. In fact, one such response has already been made because on 8 December, I personally, together with some of my ministers, responded to the problem in Zasavje, mainly related to the Termoelectric Trbovlje, where the loss of 165 or the loss of 165 jobs due to the closure, as we know, of the mine and related problems. Here we have seen that action needs to be taken concretely, quickly, because it is people, human destiny, and that is why we have come right to Zasavje, in Trbovlje, where we have already been able to ensure that 50 to 70 jobs are possible at a broader coordination meeting with stakeholders involved in this problem. At the same time, we have set up a specific coordination group, which will find, both in relation to this TET issue and in the broader context of the Zasavje issue, where the key problems that are key for short-term, medium-term solutions are key, and then the local community will find concrete solutions in relation to the government and stakeholders in this area, either representatives of entrepreneurship, energy and so on. The government has already shown here that it is very serious. We will also show this by starting to visit the regions next year, and our aim is to go to all Slovenian regions, in some way to cover, so to speak, the whole of Slovenia. Of course, these work visits will be well prepared in advance so that we do not do what is not appropriate, not even at the time when things, as you say, are serious, in order to focus primarily on appearance. Content should be found where the worst problems are, how to start solving them, in the short, medium and long term. Here I would stress that we must take into account the diversity of regions, municipalities, and local environments, however we define them. Here it is necessary to approach solutions in a way that is in some way recommended by the OECD Communication, which was the result of the preparation of the territorial report on Slovenia, which states that the developmental success of those countries that have managed to establish an effective territorial development dialogue on the inside, and to link their development potentials with those in the neighbourhood. This is said to have a dialogue, it is necessary to identify what the specificities of the regions are and by investing in science, technology, entrepreneurship, in other spheres to respond mainly in such a way that these investments are designed, for example in the sense of smart specialisation, that these investments bring added value and multiplier effects, which has not always been the case or very often not in the past. In particular, to take account of the specificities of the region, so as to promote what can be most effective for a particular region of development, because this region has some historical, natural or other details in this direction. If I end up at this point. I absolutely hope that the government, together with the coalition and the whole policy, will also be able to do its utmost for regional development. In the coming year, we will complement this further, as we have already pointed out in the case I mentioned, with concrete measures, as well as systemic measures, which will be adopted at legislative and other broader levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u7	Dr. Franc Trček has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thanks again for saying that. Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer because it is a little too general. I know that the commission set up to rescue TET has decided that TET is not going bankrupt, and this is supposed to be implemented this week. I want to know what it's like. It will probably be too late for Maribor next year. What I'd like to hear would be the answer to the question: When will the government adopt a system-wide development law that will solve the problem of deprived regions, a timetable for this adoption and, of course, the financial structure of this form of resolution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u9	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you. Of course, the answer to some extent was general, which is also normal, because these problems are also regulated at the general level, as I said, by laws. You yourself have mentioned that, at legal level, systemic certain matters should be dealt with. But I was also very specific. I gave you a specific case. I also mentioned smart specialisation, taking into account local characteristics, investing in science, technology and taking into account added value, multiplier effects and so on, the possibility of crisis interventions. Here I can believe that the current law on promoting coherent regional development allows the Government to declare an area of crisis in this sense and can then implement certain measures in this troubled area, such as tax relief for employment, tax relief for new investment, reimbursement of paid contributions and so on. There's something I'd like to point out here. Not all problems in the congregations or in all congregations are due to poor government policies, but many are also affected by bad policies in the congregations themselves. It is therefore necessary to approach, as you yourself say, the problems always specifically. A typical case has now emerged in Maribor. It is true that the task of the State has been somehow set up here years ago to help, but unfortunately some of the measures already designed have not been implemented. And this is certainly a challenge for this government, including this Parliament. On the other hand, we have recently witnessed certain claims, statements in the congregation pointing to a dramatic situation, and then were rejected in themselves by statements made by the same congregation, i.e. the mayor, that the situations are slightly different. I think that municipalities, such as Maribor, have been talking about Trbovje, we could also talk about other municipalities in Zasavje or elsewhere in Slovenia, need this specific study. As I said, the government will work, it will go to the regions themselves, it will go into contact with the municipalities, we will, after all, respond to the problem in individual municipalities by individual ministries. I think we've already taken our first steps here. And also at the legislative level, these steps will be followed confidently.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u11	Dr. Franc Trček has a proposal to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u12	Yeah, thanks for the extra explanation. I will, of course, propose, pursuant to Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, that the reply of the President of the Government be discussed at the next meeting, in particular in the light of the law you have already mentioned and possibly in the light of the amendment of this law, so that a more complex index system is actually determined by law when such measures are initiated. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u13	The second question will be raised by the mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u14	Honourable President of the Government, the National Assembly, ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome! It is the duty of each Prime Minister to defend the sovereignty of the State. The sovereignty of Slovenia is in one way or another threatened by excessive spending. Our public debt is still flying into the sky, and nothing seems to stop this trend. I hope that the current good news of positive economic growth has not blinded you and that this is not just some kind of calm before the storm when those famous financial speculators strike again. The debate on the balance of the Slovenian budget, I think, is completely over, because everything simply concentrates on the completely banal question of whether you are in favour of saving or against. But things are much more complicated, much more complex. Of course, it is popular today to be against saving. However, those who are against saving never say how the borrowed money will be returned. In some ways, they act very irresponsiblely because they place all the weight of this burden on young generations who are not thinking anymore about what they will do in the country, but are thinking more and more about how they will leave this country as quickly as possible. Talking about passwords, that's easy for all the wrong market, is simply not true. If the market were to operate in Slovenia, then we would not have this crisis. I think the reason for this crisis is because the market has not worked and because certain agreements have happened. The balance of the budget is therefore the basis of our sovereignty. In view of the 2014 and 2015 budget, we can say that we are still far from a balanced budget. There is still a deep hole between income and expenditure, and the difference can be filled in two ways – either to reduce expenditure or to increase income. However, according to the last trade union response between the government and the unions, your government has decided that the budget will primarily be balanced with new taxes. There is talk of additional taxation of the energy-intensive industry, which is expected to account for 10 000 jobs in the Chamber of Economic Affairs. There's talk of a VAT hike. You still insist on high excise duties, despite the record low oil prices. You're also predicting a new real estate tax. I ask you, Mr President of the Government, because you promised that the budget deficit would be below 3% of GDP, you are talking about a fiscal rule to introduce: Do you think it is appropriate, given that Slovenia is very low on all the competitiveness scales, that you continue to try to balance the budget by raising taxes?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u15	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I answer to my colleague, Mr Tonin, as follows. The Government has certainly identified the preparation and adoption of measures to balance public finances as its priority. I would like to reiterate here, not because we have committed ourselves to it in the framework of the European Union as well, and even less because we would be forced to do so by the European Union or anyone, but because of ourselves. We need to consolidate, balance, bring our finances to some normal framework in order to enable the country to function normally and consequently the economy. The government plans for 2015, as you know, to achieve a deficit in the state sector of 2.8% of GDP and, in the coming years, of course, to fall in line with the fiscal rule. At the same time, the government has adopted a set of measures so that a smaller part of these measures, one week on the revenue side, in particular more efficient collection of public benefits, is said to be taxes, and to fight against the grey economy, where we have already started upgrading in this direction. We are predicting even more intensive measures against the grey economy and black work. Most of the measures, and here in some ways I am already reflecting on the question, which six weeks from seven is foreseen on the expenditure side, which is the continuation of a restrictive wage policy in the public sector, the rationalisation of the wider sector of the country and the better targeted expenditure on investment, which I have mentioned in some way in the previous reply. We have done and are making considerable efforts in dialogue with trade unions, representatives of municipalities and also of the economy. This is a social dialogue, which takes place in part also in the form of negotiations on the 2015 budget. I think we are actually successful here, because we are succeeding in this dialogue in a fairly balanced manner. We have already reached an agreement with union representatives and we have already taken the most successful steps on the negotiating side, including with the economy and also with the municipalities. It is clear that there are criticisms of rising sometimes, that someone is dissatisfied with it, but it is a process of social dialogue through which we maintain social peace, raise the level of some political negotiating culture, seek solutions and we are confident that we will reach them. In doing so, I would just like to mention that I hope that the Economic Chamber, as a representative of the economy, will also return to the negotiations with which it recently left. The aim of the government is to set up such a tax policy that will support economic measures for growth and employment. If I respond a little further, these measures, which will be in force since 2015, are carefully chosen in a way that would not lead to a deterioration of the economic situation and have as many long-term positive effects as possible. Also in terms of CO2 emissions, the government is still looking for an optimal solution. This debate has not yet been concluded. There was never a talk about VAT raising. It's some kind of journalistic duck that showed up, I don't know where. We keep a level on excise duties because it makes sense. And the real estate tax will be introduced because we committed ourselves to it in a coalition contract, especially because comparative data show that Slovenia has one of the largest reserves in this area. The government intends to achieve fiscal consolidation mainly through smart restructuring of expenditure, with the aim of getting the best effects on every euro of public money invested. We therefore intend to continue to rationalise the public sector, and you can also expect such a relationship to continue with the main measures at the level of expenditure and, above all, with their restructuring on the revenue side. For example, through increased taxation of assets and more competitive labour taxation. Let me also mention that the government has taken a very serious approach to adopting a fiscal rule, where dialogue with all political parties is already under way, because we believe that the adoption of this law is now already under way. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u17	Mag. Matthew Tonin has a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u18	That's right. When facing the crisis, it is crucial and important that the burden of the crisis be shared fairly between all target groups and the whole country. On the one hand, when we talk about reducing expenditure and increasing revenue, I would point out one thing in reducing expenditure, because there is a lot of talk about reducing public sector wages. I would like to point out that there are major imbalances in this public sector and that the Government still regards the entire public sector as one large organisation, which is very uniform, although it is in fact very different. I think that's the fundamental thing that's wrong. The problem that we see at least in New Slovenia is that everything is pushed into one box, although individuals within the public sector are very different. And the burden of the public sector crisis is not fairly shared. If you look at the case of police officers, you can see that since the beginning of the crisis, the number of police officers has steadily decreased. On the other hand, if you look at the number of teachers, the number of teachers increased during the crisis. From 2008 to 2014, the number of teachers increased by a thousand 500, while the number of children decreased by 2 thousand 500. These are data that speak in favour of public sector relations being unfair at the moment. That's why I'm interested, Mr. President of the Government: When you also negotiate with the public sector on reducing expenditure, will you recognise and address these differences in the public sector and thus create greater equity in the public sector?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u19	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you. As far as the public sector is concerned, I personally agree, and so the Government's view is that relations are not well defined here or that there is too much levelling on the one hand, and on the other hand there are some differences that are, as you say, unfair or structurally unjustifiable. Thus, for example, I personally very much agree that the police, I even hope to say, have largely lost their independence to this day, mainly because of policies that did not appreciate this area sufficiently, this sphere and its importance to society. One of the goals of this government is, when you just mentioned police officers, to certainly restore the reputation of police officers, of this service, of this activity, of this profession. We're primarily up against the balance sheet. And here it will be necessary to introduce gradually and in the right way reward after effort and success, that it will also be perfectly clear in the public administration that those who do well can get more that those who work poorly or who do not want to work must get less or must leave the public administration. These are the challenges and tasks we have set ourselves. I hope that you will help us all Members and the entire National Assembly. But if I could just come back for a moment to take advantage of this piece available to me, I would just mention the fiscal rule mentioned earlier. This is also part of the Government's efforts to ensure that what the Constitution stipulates is now done by law and then in practice, to introduce a countercyclical model of fiscal rule that will allow for the sustainability of public finances and which will bind us to the extent that it is most appropriate for Slovenia to remain within the rules, because we have committed ourselves not to overdo it by jeopardising our competitiveness, development and, as you said, in some way also autonomy arising from this economic sphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u21	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin for a proposal to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u22	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. It seems extremely important to me that this National Assembly, as the highest legislative body, is talking about how we will balance our public finances. First, in some way, and secondly, with some dynamics. President of the Government, I don't mean to be rude, but I would like to say that it's not enough to be against, and actions and measures are also needed. In your answers, you have said many things about what you are pursuing or what your position is, but we must now come from these points of view to concrete action. From your point of view to your legal proposals. You certainly know the Laffer curve in the economy, which says that when you increase the tax rate to a certain limit, the revenue in the budget increases, but at some point it is reversed. I think that something similar can happen in the case of additional taxation of the energy intensive industry, which is already very much on the verge of profitability and further tax increases would simply mean job losses, which again means a loss to the state budget. You yourself mentioned the non-competitive state of labour taxation. I very unusually see certain socialists in this national council agreeing that in Slovenia profit is less taxed than work. I think it's one of the things we should change immediately. It's a excise policy. Wherever we come from, motorists warn us if Slovenia is really so stupid that it throws money out the window because of its overexpenditure that our fuel has become uncompetitive. However, the key to increasing revenue in the state budget seems to me to improve the business environment. Here I am referring to de-de-barcation, to simplifying procedures, where it is particularly important to simplify the placement in space and to make the labour market more flexible. All the debates that I have just brought down seem crucial to us to discuss them. I recently read a magnetogram where even you were before, I think a year or two, said that it was unheard of, that all things in the National Assembly were taken by emergency procedure. Your government is also continuing its current practice. In this you are absolutely no different than other governments, so it would be good to give your government coalition instructions that, however, we are discussing this in depth on such important matters as the balance of the state budget. I therefore hope that the coalition Members will also support such a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u23	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly as well as by the previous proposal tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. Third, he's asking the mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Almost a hundred days have passed since your government's performance, and I believe that you will agree with me that you have not actually had a hundred days of peace or time to prepare the necessary measures to carefully reflect on what needs to be done in the next steps for our people, our country. We live in times when we need to act quickly, where decisions need to be made every day. That's what your government does. That's what this coalition does. Almost every law we get on the table by the government has to be adopted by emergency procedure and so on overnight. All right, if you think this is necessary to further strengthen economic activity. Okay, if you think it's necessary for the well-being of the people. You know, in our Group of Members, we have supported quite a few of these proposals from the government, the coalition. And we will continue to work in such a way as to assess that this is good for the country and for the welfare of citizens. However, I do not understand why it is so difficult for the government coalition to support each of our proposals. A proposal coming from the opposition. We all need strategic reflection and a search for systemic solutions. Let it be a rescue of human life, an example of a Somali girl, or a rescue of state property, the example of Petrol. The Energy Law was prepared and adopted under our government. The law was required, there was great coordination, there was a lot of change. It was necessary to enforce it in order to comply with European rules. We didn't have much time. And, yes, we made one mistake. We missed the part about the so-called silent takeover of Petrol from the marriage. Petrol is an important strategic company for our country. Infrastructure, gas pipelines are owned indirectly by Petrol and is therefore a strategically important company. In the last month, we were able to see that Petrol is doing something similar to what happened to Mercury, Istrabenz, Mercator years ago. Selling under the table. Why is it so difficult, Mr Cerar, to support our proposal and to prevent these things? Why is it so difficult to support something that is certainly in the interests of the state and people?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u25	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Ambassador Alenka Bratusek, for the question. Let me first briefly answer that part that is now being repeated here, why we are making laws under urgent procedure. Simply because this government has assumed its role, it plays its role at the moment when some urgent measures need to be taken. Even when I myself, as mentioned years ago, Mr Tonin mentioned it, wrote about it critically, I did not write it as he said, but there was an addition that it was understandable that the government must sometimes make laws by emergency procedure and that Parliament should also accept them in this way if it is in a hurry, if this is of exceptional importance for the country, etc. At that time, it was important at some point that it should not be exaggerated. And I assure you that this government will not continue this practice in the coming year, because these deadlines will expire. Then we are faced with challenges that require regular procedures, where we will be able to accept normal things within normal timeframes. So don't worry about it. Now the situation is really a little urgent, because we were out of the government for six months and then we took the government at a time when the necessary measures should be taken if we are to get out of the crisis. I must say that Petrol is a personal investment for me, in my opinion a very important investment for the country, so we do not deal with this issue superficially or carefreely. And the fact that the government gave a negative opinion on the proposal you tabled was not meant in this direction to ignore this problem. On the contrary. The government and the competent ministries, especially for finance and for the economy, are very closely monitoring this issue, and I also hope that SDH will accompany it, and, of course, the reasons for our opinion are in fact on the reasons you have said. This is that the proposal is neither comprehensive nor systematic, so we need to adopt a negative opinion here. You come from the assumption that the proposed law that Petrol is a country's investment is of strategic importance. The place for what is truly strategically important is in the strategy, i.e. in an act called the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy. You know that this strategy is just before the final draft will be addressed by the government and will be addressed in this well-respected assembly at the beginning of next year. Just now that we are witnessing the privatisation of these 15 companies, we see how important it is that such processes are not done without a well-thought-out strategy. Therefore, we now want to place the entire management of state property on some solid foundations together with you, honourable Members and Members. That is why, after we have discussed this with the government, and previously with the social partners, we will start an intensive debate on this strategy for managing state investment in the National Assembly. That's the situation in Petrol. Today, the country has 24,87% of its shares in Petrol, and thus has no influence on the acquisition or sale of other owners. Petrol works in the field of retailing petroleum derivatives, i.e. completely marketed activities, and the country regulates the price because of its dominant position. Under the SDH Act, this investment is difficult to define as strategic. The same applies to shares held by Petrol in Gen-I, d. o.o., and Geoplin. Given the ownership of the infrastructure and the position of the independent transmission network operator, the current 100 % share of Geoplin in Plinovod is particularly important. This is the case for infrastructure of strategic importance for the country and, in accordance with that law, the State must maintain ownership control of at least 51 %. And in such cases, in accordance with the strategy that we will define, we will define how to deal with companies of such importance. Until then, we will closely monitor the information on transactions with Petrol's shares and expect the same from SDH. As we say, there is a challenge that I have repeatedly foretold, and this is a strategy that we are working very quickly now to present to the National Assembly as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u27	Mag. Alenka Bratušek has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you very much. With the novelty of the energy law we wish or we wanted, without your support unfortunately this is not possible, to prevent the silent takeover of Petrol, to prevent someone from reaching the so-called control stake, Mr Cerar. That's all. And according to all the media reports, we are in a hurry, so we wanted to get signatures from your party's MPs, the Mir Cerar Party, from members of the coalition. We don't have time to think, wait, prepare a strategy. As I said, we've been walking around for more than 14 days now and asking you to help us adopt a law that would allow the government to prevent, I'll just say, according to past practice, the Taiwanation of Petrol. The government would have made it possible by law. If you think this is the right thing to do, then the government will give their consent. I don't know if anyone can understand why you're not helping us with this, why your client won't help us if we can't convince any of your other coalition partners. It is true that, with regard to state property, sales of this property and management, you and your client have changed their position on several occasions. But it's not too late now. We can do this, we can do this together. If we think too long or if you think too long and look for systemic solutions, you know what the Slovenian proverb says: It is too late to ring the bell. But it will be your responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u29	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you. I'll be very brief. As far as we've been changing our mind, I'd say that's not true. If you've measured the relationship to privatisation, we've had the same relationship all along. We said that we are against the privatisation of strategically important state-owned enterprises, but that if any of the privatisation processes were to be brought to a stage, when it could no longer be stopped without express and extraordinary and serious damage to the state, for the reputation of the state, for credibility without compensation or other legal proceedings, then we would not do so. In fact, the position here has not changed. Circumstances have changed. We respond in accordance with our position, given the circumstances. I've pointed out that the country has 25% of the shares around here if I round it up. Here is the Act on takeovers that protects shareholders, and I have stressed that the state is monitoring developments through its ministries, through professional services. I also believe that SDH – Slovenian State Holding is a vigilantly blue situation. Thus, the assessment we have made is accepted and the government will insist on doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u31	Mag. Alenka Bratušek has a proposal to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we discuss this in this National Assembly, because Mr Cerar, I apologize, but I think you do not really understand what this is about. With energy law, the government would be given the right to decide whether or not the concentration of one owner could be so high in Petrol. If you think it's right that these things happen this way, you'll just as well give your consent as a government. That's all. On the one hand, you say that strategically important companies need a thorough reflection on how and what, on the other hand, you are not prepared to help and act. It could be too late. As far as other privatisation and exchange of views are concerned. I think it is clear to all who read certain things that these have changed several times without changing circumstances. But for Petrol, at this point, the situation is such that by adopting this law we can prevent this matter. If it is true for you to cooperate between the coalition and the opposition, if it is true for you to do something good for this country together, I really do not know why it is such a problem to support things that are in good faith, for the good of the countries, for the good of the people in the opposition. It is true, as my colleague Tonin said, that we must move from words to actions. Unfortunately, we're still just talking. You still have a chance, whether it's the government or the coalition, to change your mind and help us in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u33	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. Mr Franc Jurša asks fourthly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, the ministerial team, colleagues and others who are in the Chamber. The Democratic Party of the Pensioners' Democratic Group and the party have already made efforts to sustain the pension fund in the long term. At this point, I will not repeat how many pensioners have contributed to the sustainability of public finances all these years, as we are aware of this information. Our achievements are reflected, inter alia, in the adoption of the pension reform and the commitment under the Slovenian State Holding Act, where it is explicitly stated that 10% of the purchase is made from the sale of the country's capital investments for the purposes of the demographic reserve fund created by the conversion of Kad. In this mandate, we have also reached the unanimous support and commitment of the coalition partners in DeSUS to seek long-term sustainable and demographic changes in the adapted resources to provide decent pensions. The coalition agreement below includes a concrete commitment to the establishment of a demographic reserve fund. Let me quote: "The coalition partners agree that, in accordance with the provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, by 30 June 2015, we will adopt the Act establishing and operating the demographic reserve fund, which will ensure the long-term stability of the pension system. In addition to the initial resources already laid down in the current legislation, the Demographic Reserve Act will also identify possible additional funds and specify the operation and management of the Fund in more detail." In view of the clearly defined deadline for the establishment of the demographic reserve fund, we Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and all pensioners are of particular interest: When exactly are we to receive this law? Let me just mention that, according to the former Prime Minister's assurances, the former government has been dealing with this issue, looking for possible sources of funding, and that text should at least exist in the grave. At the same time, I want to know: Are there, or what activities are taking place in this regard, and is the pool of possible funding sources known?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u35	Answers the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Jurša, for the question. Certainly, we all agree that the long-term strengthening of the capital base of our pension system is necessary and necessary. It is also the foundation of our intergenerational solidarity, for we all pay our contributions together not only to have our parents' pensions, but also to ourselves. In particular, we must give young people a firm commitment to receive decent and secure pensions after retirement. That is why we are thinking about this coalition commitment, which you have already mentioned, already intensely in the government, despite the fact that we are currently dealing with some other issues as a matter of priority. We will open this debate very intensively in the coming months and try to reach legal solutions in this time book. If, for a month or so, the matter might move back, this will make sense if, at the end of the day, there are solutions that will last, which will be of long-term importance, and we also need to know that, due to other obligations that we also have more broadly, in the light of the Council's recommendations, we need to ensure this long-term sustainability of the pension system. The government approaches this problem on the basis of some studies and simulations that have already been carried out. You know that, say, an assessment of the financial potential of the demographic reserve fund of the Centre for Business Excellence of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana has already been adopted. We also have an assessment of the long-term needs of the Institute's pension system for economic research and so on. In short, these are some quality studies that show how this problem could be tackled. I now guarantee that this problem will be addressed in a broad dialogue. This will not only be a topic within some parties, perhaps in a coalition, but a broader dialogue will also have to be established here in Parliament. The key challenge of this demographic reserve fund is, as you mentioned, its funding, so how to gradually create a capital base, is to create some assets from which we can ensure that the needs of the pension system are financed. The next key challenge is, as you know, how, when and under what conditions we will then draw funds from this fund. This could be so that, after some simulations and studies, including those I mentioned, every year, some large budget funding from the Fund would be provided and thus, over a period of, say, 10 years, indicatively, some sufficient assets would be created to cover at least part of the commitments that we make from the budget for the financing of rights each year. During the pool of financial resources, tax resources are mentioned primarily as options, with the current assets of Kad and investments in ZPIZ in the Insurance Company Triglav. Of course, we come up with a key problem, which we keep mentioning today or these days and these months, which is a challenge to public financial sustainability, as all these measures are acceptable only within the framework of public financial sustainability. Both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour have already assessed that it is virtually very difficult to believe that, during the period when we are in charge of the current financing of the budget, we would still be additionally in charge of this purpose, and it is not certain that the level of profitability from such created assets would reach or exceed the cost of financing, i.e. the interest on debt. Notwithstanding these dilemmas, which will need to be resolved – and here I really expect a broad debate and support from the profession – it is clear that solutions will also have to be sought in relation to the greater role of the second pillar, i.e. in combination with both compulsory and voluntary supplementary pension benefits. I can tell you that the Government still thinks about this and that this is one of the first tasks to be undertaken next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u37	Mr Franc Jurša has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u38	Yeah, I'll put it a little differently. Mr President, if we do not feel sufficient activity in this area in the parliamentary group as well as in the party of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, I assure you that we will be asking this same question in three to four months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u39	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u40	As Prime Minister of the Government and a member of the Desus coalition, of course, I expect this activity of yours. I also expect the activity of the other two parties in the coalition to remind us if we're going to be too slow. However, we will work on this, and I hope that special warnings will not be necessary. But there will be a need for substantive discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u41	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, will first answer the question of mag. Branca Grims on excise policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u42	Your Honor! The question was about the policy of creating excise duties. When designing a fuel excise policy in Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes into account both the economic policy objectives, the commitment to achieve environmental objectives and the economic situation and the budgetary aspect, as excise revenue on energy is an important and stable budgetary resource. The level of excise duty is the result of considering the appropriate balance between these factors. However, I would point out that excise duty is only one of the elements that generate the retail price of energy. Retail energy prices in Slovenia are also affected by changes in other duties, which are subject to policies of other sources. Currently, average retail fuel prices in Slovenia are indeed higher than in neighbouring countries only in Italy. In Slovenia, however, the quantity of fuel generated by excise duty remains unchanged this year compared to the same period last year. I emphasize - unchanged. The stable revenue of excise duties on motor fuels is also maintained, with the revenue from excise duties increased for diesel this year compared to the same period last year and the revenue from excise duties lower for petrol. The amount of excise duty via retail price in Slovenia only has a limited impact on the automotive sector. For the transport of goods and passengers, beneficiaries established in the EU Member States or in the EFTA States may apply the refund of excise duty in the amount of the difference between the applicable excise duty and the minimum excise duty provided for in the European Directive. In addition, reimbursements of excise duties are provided in Slovenia for certain sectors, namely agriculture, forestry, construction, machinery and motor vehicles. In the use of energy, but now for heating, the current excise policy is not intended to promote the use of environmentally less receptive energy, which is extra light combustion oil, CO-EL, as we call it. In line with environmental objectives, the transition to natural gas and renewable energy is encouraged. The competitiveness of retail prices with neighbouring countries does not affect the demand for this fuel, as in accordance with excise legislation, the purchase and transport of this fuel oil to Slovenia is considered an energy intake, which means that excise duty should be charged and paid in Slovenia. In light fuel oil, quantities have been steadily falling in recent years, at the expense of increasing the use of other sources, milder winters and more cost-effective use of energy. According to the data of this energy balance of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014, the final consumption of fuel oil is estimated to be 26.4% lower than in 2013. The final consumption of renewable energy will be 8 % higher in 2014 than in 2013. The maximum share, 81.4%, of renewable energy sources and non-renewable industrial waste will be wood and other wood biomass in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u43	Mag. Branko Grimes has a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you. This was a perfect bureaucratic answer, but in no way answered the dilemma that I asked in my question. In fact, any tax policy, including excise policy, should be a function of some positive promotion, developmental promotion of the behaviour of individuals. The current situation is quite the opposite. And even saying the same thing about last year is of course irrelevant, because exactly the same thing I warned you about last year. What's the problem? With us excise duties are so disproportionately high that motorists are under threat of sanctions in their own company that if they go out, they have to tank outside. Same thing happens to everyone else. All ordinary citizens and citizens, when they go abroad, if anyone forgets to tank, then you listen, to her, I forget to tank what a mistake I've made. In short, we have a condition that encourages people to act wrongly. What is wrong with such conduct? You know, those rides that take place in our home or abroad are done in any case. Only if you tank exclusively abroad, does that mean that you've left all taxes, excise duties and everything to someone else, someone abroad, you've made a fortune in a foreign country. Pork stays in Slovenia. This is really the result of the current policy. Like, say, talking about the question of how each amount of excise duty affects people's behavior, and, say, nice winter, it's very nice, but it doesn't have much to do with what we're talking about today. What's the key problem? 47 million euros, we have read, is officially acknowledged that the loss of excise revenue was, according to planned, for a simple reason, because excise duties are disproportionately excessive, unreasonablely excessive. And all I want to know is, will anyone be in charge of this? Will you take responsibility? What are you gonna do to make these things? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u45	Dr. Dushan Maramor answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u46	Yes, I'm very sorry that you consider numbers a bureaucratic answer. The numbers are just given. If excise duties were too high, that would mean reducing the amount. However, the quantities for diesel increased according to the previous year. We were crucial in this determination of excise duties, what happens to quantities in Slovenia compared to quantities in Austria, Hungary, Croatia and Italy. The model for determining these excise duties from a budgetary point of view – this is only from a budgetary point of view – on motor fuels, the key is this thought, or in Slovenia, at a certain amount of excise duty, the quantity starts to drop more than the quantity falling in neighbouring countries, where motorists can pour full tanks. Since this was not the case, excise duties were followed by policies such as these, and there certainly was no such failure here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u47	Mag. Branko Grimes has a proposal to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u48	It is very interesting that the official findings, also published in the media, can be verified by the individual institutions of this country now the Minister denies. It made it very clear that there had been a large drop in terms of the planned level of excise revenue. We could read the number 47 million and the explanation in the media was that the assessment of these institutions was precisely that excise duties were disproportionately excessive and even in this area Slovenia was not competitive with neighbouring countries. Because of the specific shape that Italy has around the sea, it is very difficult to compare with that. But they know certain other measures, and they knew them even more in the past, with which they not only compensated, but turned to their heads in a certain 50km band there at the borders, and that's what we're talking about Italy. Well, for us the key Croatia, Hungary, Austria, and here the situation is quite clear. This burden is a relatively large intervention in quality or, if you want, the well-being of people in an area that cannot be avoided. Today, transportation or smoking is simply no luxury. It's something you need to have today or you just can't function in a modern world. As a result, all those aspects must be taken into account in these matters as in any other form of tax policy. Above all, to direct people in a more rational manner, on the one hand, and on the other hand to have as much of that country, taking into account the first condition as possible. In excise policy, obviously things aren't right, they're not right. Enough about the figures, the findings of Umar, all the other institutions involved, we can read a lot about this, and it is obvious that he does not want to speak openly in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. But this is a question of responsibility for something that is important in the income of the budget and, on the other hand, a relatively high burden for ordinary people and, last but not least, for entrepreneurs, including the economy. I therefore propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discuss this at one of the future meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u49	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor will answer the question of mag. Mark Pogačnik concerning the implementing law on fiscal rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This question was raised about a month ago and was relevant at the time. At its 12th regular meeting on 4 December, the Government now adopted the text of the fiscal rule bill and sent it to the National Assembly. I have also presented its content in all the parliamentary groups. But if I take advantage of this time, I am going through certain elements of this content to explain what this law contains. We know that the basis for the fiscal rule law is actually a change in the constitution. In order to amend the Constitution, the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in Economic and Monetary Policy or the so-called fiscal act adopted by the European Union is the basis for coordinating the fiscal policies of its members mainly within the euro area. Here are very strict rules on what fiscal policy and fiscal results must look like. These rules were followed by the government when it drafted this new fiscal law. In doing so, it had to take into account, not only this treaty, this fiscal act, but also the provisions of constitutions that are stricter than the provisions of the Treaties themselves, since the budget must be balanced on the medium term without being indebted. That's supposed to be a deficit equal to 0. While the contract makes it possible to have a structural deficit minus 0.5%. Thus, this restriction is additional, which means that we have been stricter than the strict European Union. Within this there is a number of specific points relating first to fiscal rules. This is said to enable this fiscal pact to set a medium-term fiscal target within a range that is not limited up and down by a structural deficit of 0.5 %. As I said before, our fiscal rule has a limit of 0% because it's written in the constitution. Another such element, which is crucial, is the establishment of a minimum value for the medium-term objective. We know that this medium-term target of 0 can move structural deficits from minus 0.5, up is not limited, and at the same time the actual budget deficit is minus 3%. These are the limits where it can move, but in the entire area, it is true that the medium-term period must be levelled. The fiscal pact provides that there may be exceptions where there are special exceptional circumstances. This proposal for a law adopted by the Government allows for a derogation from the principle of medium-term balance during a period of serious economic decline or in the event of natural and other accidents or other unforeseen events which cannot be affected if these events have significant consequences on the financial situation of the State sector. Here we followed directly this fiscal pact. In addition, it is determined when derogations occur, including the correction mechanism. This international treaty, this fiscal pact provides for the triggering of the correction mechanism if there is a derogation that is not due to exceptional circumstances. In the event of exceptional circumstances, therefore, it is not necessary for the correction mechanism to be initiated within the time at which these exceptional circumstances persist and to be triggered after these exceptional circumstances have been completed. Perhaps you would like to highlight the way in which surpluses can be used. The law provides that when we have surplus income over expenditure, these surpluses shall be stored in a special account and then used to cover deficits in times of exceptional circumstances or principal debt repayment. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u51	The Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusham Maramor, will answer the question of mag. Andrej Shirtzl concerning measures relating to aggressive tax planning.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you so much for asking. This is a very hot topic, as we know, even at European level, and it has been for some time now, although it is, I would say, now the public is more familiar with the case of Juncker. In our view, tax policy cannot and must not be a key indicator of the attractiveness of the business environment of a given country. It can be one of the indicators of the appropriateness of the business or support environment. However, in our opinion, in the context of the 2006 tax reform, we have also set tax rates and the narrowing of the tax base, which has made Slovenia extremely competitive in the area of corporate tax. At the tax rate, we are the fifth country with the lowest tax rate, 17%, the first and second are Bulgaria and Ireland with 10% and 12.5%. In addition, we have also established the narrowing of the tax base mainly by facilitating general investment and investment in R & D and so on. However, in accordance with the principle of legality, the tax authority shall decide in tax matters separately within the framework and on the basis of international contracts which oblige Slovenia under the law and the general acts. Therefore, as we have had the case in Luxembourg, it is not possible to conclude agreements on a different tax treatment. A different treatment would constitute a harmful tax practice and a violation of the principle of equal tax treatment of taxpayers. There is no way for me to go in this direction because Slovenia, as a member of the EU and the OECD, is very active in these bodies in drafting legislation, and like some other countries, we strongly support activities at EU and OECD level, where countries should harmonise their actions and activities in order to essentially limit such aggressive tax policies to individual countries. We have a whole range of activities here. First of all, this base erosion and profit shifting – BEPS, this is a reduction of the tax base and a redirection of profits. This is a project where the OECD is extremely active and changes international tax rules with a view to adapting them to the global and digital economy, the integration of tax systems and so on. Slovenia is very cooperative here. Ecofin. On 9 December, the European Union adopted two directives on the last ECOFIN, the amendment of the Directive on parent and subsidiary companies, so that they do not have the possibility of tax optimisation or that this option is significantly more limited for those companies that have their subsidiaries around the world and for the Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, which in fact provides for the cooperation of individual tax authorities. In addition, the European Commission has made an action plan to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, which we are following, and we have a specific action plan that is prepared for this BEPS, which I have already mentioned, in a range of areas that should limit such a tax aggressive policy. Slovenia has been very cooperative, especially Germany has been very visible in this area over the past two years and we are signing and acceding to all conventions. Of course, Slovenia does not support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u53	Mag. Andrej Shircelj has a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable ministers, Minister! I would like to raise additional questions in this regard. We all know that we are members of the European Union. The fact that we're members of the OECD, we all know. Luxembourg, including Ireland, including Cyprus, the United Kingdom, including France, also Germany, are members of the European Union, are members of the OECD and have different tax solutions, a respected minister. Probably a lot of people are surprised by this news about you agreeing on a tax rate, so if you come to Luxembourg to the finance ministry, to the tax administration, and you say, look, I'm transferring headquarters to Luxembourg, I'm transferring so much and so much activity, so give me a tax rate of 1%. This is, of course, possible, and this is possible on the basis of a legal provision in Luxembourg. This is in line with the EU. If you look at some responses here, then we can say it's not an offshore matter. The Minister of Finance of Luxembourg said that this is perfectly normal, that it is in accordance with the legislation. It is then necessary to harmonise taxly and that there is an absolute need for coordination and approximation of tax policies in Europe. That's what we know, Your Honor. But I would like an answer: What will Slovenia do to make it tax-competitive on the basis of new results and what will it do in the area of natural persons? In particular, for natural persons I also have information, probably you should also have it, that some country may give a person residence and say, "Look, you are the most famous opera singer, so we give you residence, you are the most famous racing formula one, so we give you residence and give you a lower tax rate." And that's the deal. And here I'm wondering: What will Slovenia do about it?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u55	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u56	There is no basis for dealing differently with different persons or businesses, as was the case in Luxembourg. I don't think we support that either. We join those countries that do not support this and are led at the OECD and EU level by actions that are expected to reduce and prevent such activities. From this point of view, Slovenia does not intend to be tax-competitive in such a way that it treats practically equal taxpayers differently. The other thing is that we are trying to compete with lower tax rates and higher tax incentives. As I said before, especially in the area of taxation of property and income, Slovenia may have gone too far. The corporate income tax is another thing, we are among those countries that are the most tax-competitive in Europe. While we are probably among the first in the taxation of property returns. I don't have this information on me right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u57	Mag. Andrej Shercelj has a proposal to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the response of the Minister of Finance and given the reality of the situation in Europe today, I propose that the National Assembly should hold a debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. For the first time because we have such tax practices, but as the Luxembourg Minister for Finance has said, they have such advanced tax decisions as are called promotion tax ruling, and they are also used in Germany, France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. This is what your fellow Minister of Finance in Luxembourg wrote. And everything is in line with the European directives and everything is in line with the OECD directives. They're all members of these organizations, all of these countries. You also sit together at meetings when you talk about it. And if we're talking about tax competition here, you said it would represent, you mentioned the word earlier, harmful tax competition. This coin is very well known. We also actually know what it means — that that would mean. Does this mean, in fact, harmful tax competition in these countries? I think that, on the basis of this information, something needs to be done in the tax system and tax policy to make Slovenia more competitive in this area. Luxembourg is a country that is second in the world after national income. We do not have Luxembourg for a country that does not respect the rules of the European Union, the European Commission and so on. We also have a hard time saying this about the United Kingdom, and we also have a hard time speaking about France, Germany. And here we now have some new information about how they have some different rules. I agree that we have adopted a directive, an interest rate directive, that we have adopted a so-called directive on where the company is established. However, Minister, I think all the capital will actually go away or have already moved to other countries. And I am interested, and I would like to have a general debate here on what Slovenia will do to keep capital, in addition to keeping people, especially those who are highly educated, and to attract additional capital. You, too, I think you were talking about Slovenia's lack of capital. And, as the examples of these countries show, tax policy is still very important. Still, it's very important if you have so many and so many businesses there. Of course, they're companies that have a mailbox, anyway. But these are highly developed Member States of the European Commission, the OECD, where these tax rules are also actually adopted and validated. For this reason, I propose once again that the general debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u59	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. The Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, will answer Mr Andrej Couch's question about the double taxation of migrant workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. With regard to the double taxation of day-to-day migrants, I would like to say that it is misleading to understand that the incomes of cross-border labour migrants have been achieved abroad in double taxation, as the double taxation of such income is eliminated by the double taxation method laid down in the relevant Convention on the avoidance of double taxation of income or by the method for the elimination of double taxation laid down in the Income Act. The possibility of double taxation arises from the taxation of the income of natural persons according to the principle of residence and the principle of the source of income generally established in most developed countries and since 2005 in Slovenia. Since residents are taxed on the basis of the principle of world income, i.e. income achieved in and outside the country of residence, they are also taxed in the country where these incomes are made, situations arise where the right to tax a certain income is owned by both countries. In accordance with the OECD international standards, the country of residence is obliged to abolish double taxation. To this end, the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation of income or the Income Act incorporates a method to eliminate double taxation of such income. In addition, residents, cross-border migrant workers who leave abroad for work and return to Slovenia daily or at least once a week, and who earn income from their employer abroad, are not double-taxed on that income, since the possibility of double taxation arising in general from the obligation to pay taxes in the country in which the income has been achieved, as well as in the country of residence, is prevented by the tax to be paid by the resident of Slovenia from this income in Slovenia, being reduced by a tax already paid to a foreign country. In Slovenia, therefore, such a resident pays only the difference between the tax levied in Slovenia and the tax paid to the country in which the income is achieved. In view of the above, the double taxation of the income of cross-border migrant workers has therefore already been abolished. And to explain the specific situation. In the case of cross-border labour migrants, in particular those working in Austria, due to the different levels of income and also to the tax, there is a proper increase in the tax in Slovenia, which the debtors are obliged to settle when this income is declared between year and year. As a result of these high payments, a special personal allowance was introduced in 2009, but in 2013 the Constitutional Court found that it was not justified on the basis of the same tax treatment of taxable persons with income achieved in Slovenia and the revenues made abroad, and therefore this personal allowance was 1. 1. 2014 cancelled. In view of the above, it is from 1. 1. 2014 Taxation of income of residents of cross-border labour migrants is comparable to taxation of income of residents who achieve income from employment in Slovenia alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u61	Mr. Andrej Chuš has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you for answering my oral question raised at the last meeting of the National Assembly. However, I would like to say that I am dissatisfied with the answer. I think it is too concrete, and it also shows that the Mira Cerar government will have to deal with daily migrants who prefer to work abroad, rather than being at home in Slovenia on social support, an ignorant attitude. I have also accompanied in detail the activities of the civil initiative Apache, which represents, we can say, almost all day migrants from the area of Styria, Koroška, Prekmurje. These are about 20,000 and have also published one announcement that today is the last day for your response, i.e. you, as minister and government, on a new proposal for the Income Act. Because I've read that too, I'm curious: Are there any activities in this direction? Are you meeting with representatives of the Apache Civil Initiative? Are you really preparing any changes or amendment to the Income Law? In the final stage, I would like to point out that it is wrong to hit people who prefer to go abroad with a belly for bread, but we all know that all the money they deserve is spent in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u63	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u64	I really haven't told you what we've done lately. Even before I arrived at the Ministry of Finance, there was an extremely intense search for solutions. What I said about the Constitutional Court is just a fact. We then sought solutions in amending the Income Act by increasing the recognised amount of food costs during work as a permanent measure and reducing the annual tax base from foreign labour income as a temporary measure for 2014 and 2015. We have prepared a legislative amendment and submitted it to the Government. The Office of the Government of Law considered that such a proposal was unconstitutional and that is why we did not continue to do so. We continue to seek solutions. For once, I have to say that we failed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u65	Mr. Andrej Chus has a proposal to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you for supplementing your answer. I would like to say that on this website of the Civil Initiative of Apache, I myself have read or found an announcement that the Government does not agree with the amendment of the Income Act, as you yourself have said. This means, of course, that coalition parties, the Mir Cerar Party, the Social Democrats and the Democratic Party of Pensioners know that this is a problem, but they do not want anything to move forward. Whether the real solution is the amendment of the Income Act or the new signing of the Interstate Agreement with the Republic of Austria. I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we discuss the Minister's response to the debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly, because unfortunately this is a very big problem. In truth, more and more young people and others are also going abroad, and it is not right to add them, I can say, tax or hit our pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u67	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, should today answer Mrs Ludmila Novak's questions regarding the resolution of the problem of reform of local municipal administrations in the country of Furlania - the country of July and Mr Mark Ferluga in relation to economic diplomacy, but he is absent today due to his participation in the Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels. I ask the Member and the Member of Parliament whether they insist on oral or perhaps they want a written reply from the Minister. It's a written answer. So the Minister will answer the question in writing. Thank you. Minister of Defence, Mr Janko Weber will answer Mrs Erika Deklava's question regarding the longstanding problems with the use of the Poček exercise.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. First of all, thank you for understanding that today I can orally answer your question, which has already been raised at the previous meeting, but it concerns regulating the situation at the Central Training Centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Poček, which is to regulate the situation between the municipalities which are directly at this exercise. The most important part, however, is that of the Postojna Congregation. And in this interim period, I can say that we have approached this issue as a matter of priority. We've been waiting for the results of the local elections. In view of the new composition of the municipal council and in view of the mayors' election, we have also taken the initiative to organise a coordination group that will continue its work as soon as possible. It is a coordination group appointed by the Municipality of Postojna or Mayor of Postojna and I as Minister by the Ministry of Defence. Each page proposes three members. And I can tell you that we've already made suggestions to both of you. The Ministry of Defence will participate in the coordination group of the State Secretary, then the Deputy General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Chief of the Civil-military Cooperation Sector of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We have also received a notice on the composition of their group from the Municipality of Postojna, so an agreement on the operation is also signed. Last week, we had our first working meeting, where we met the mayor and some of the members of this working group. The agreement is for the coordination group to meet this month. The first such meeting will take place on 22 December to review all open issues and issues that need to be agreed so that we can carry out activities at the Slovenian Armed Forces Central Training Centre. However, I would like to point out that this is a real exercise that is crucial for the further development of the Slovenian Army. If we did not have such an exercise in Slovenia, we should, of course, carry out a number of activities abroad, which is linked to very high costs. So we are interested that this exercise actually gets its role both in the local community and, of course, in the Slovenian Army system, because it is the most rational and effective training system. At this moment, I can say that we have also agreed at the previous government meeting to sign a contract for the regulation of the postojna barracks. It's the army of Baron Andre Chekovin. The agreement is submitted to a contract signed at €2.6 million and in 2015 it is envisaged to be realised at €350,000 and in 2016 at the remaining amount. So it's a two-year project. And this war machine is designed to take over part of the burden, if I may say so, which would otherwise be carried out in the Poček exercise. Part of logistics will be carried out in Postojna, so that the investment part of the exercise, which is intended for, say, members of the Slovenian Army or other armies, will be accommodated in the exercise. This will be organised after the signing of this Treaty in Postojna, and I would also like to say that we are taking a very concrete approach to things being regulated. However, we would certainly like to see a decision taken as soon as possible to regulate the land register or to accede by the Municipality of Postojna, however, to the signing of a contract to harmonise the land register. This would, of course, enable the Ministry of Defence to build within the local road, the electrical connection that we need to use in one of our logistics centres, not the aggregate, but electricity. So much for this job. But if the question continues, I will complete the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u69	We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. First he asks Dr. Vinko Gorenak, and this is Minister of the Interior Mag. Vesno Györkös Žnidar and Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Minister! My parliamentary question actually concerns what the police and the justice system as a whole are likely to do as a matter of priority for the past two years. In 2012, we sent both the police and the Attorney General Fischer confidential reports of the Bank of Slovenia concerning the suspicions of criminal services from the then government. Especially on so-called, public-known – bad loans. You know very well that it was later that the banking system was recapitalised last year or, according to the local word, the citizens had already thrown nearly EUR 5 billion into Slovenian banks for the second time. And that's the second time. The justice system, or the justice system, whatever we call it, I mean, of course, the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, two years after these reports have been received, I have to say that I have little concern about the results. But I'm concerned simply because if the police came to me at least then – and I think about the National Investigation Office – and they said they needed new people to need some of the things we provided at the time, at least at the beginning of 2013, of course nothing happened at the prosecution. Mr. Fisher played the role of postman at the prosecution's office. He wrote a letter, and he said, "In addition, I'm sending you these two reports." And he gave it up to the specialized prosecutor's office. In short, he didn't do anything. Absolutely nothing. In fact, I have already addressed a written question to you there once a month in October, and I have both asked what the result is now after two years on the police side and what the result is on the prosecution's side. And if there's anything on the court's side. Of course, this may still be true today for a fundamental reason, because I did not expect anything to happen in the judiciary, because our judiciary does not work, we cannot say otherwise. However, what surprised me was that I received extremely different information from you. The police claim one thing about the number of complaints and the suspects and the amount of damage, and the prosecution has answered something else entirely. So my question today is actually meant to unify or to tell the Slovenian public what the result of the case is now, so that the numbers will be the same and they will not be different.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u71	The Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar and Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you for your word. Mr Gorenak, also thank you for the question. As you have already found out, this question has already been addressed to me in October. The answer was ten. 11. Therefore, in the vast majority, I will only be able to confirm my reply on the basis of further verification of this data by the police. As far as these confidential reports of the Bank of Slovenia are concerned. The police confirmed to me that they had received both reports, first of 10. 7, second of 24. Seven. In 2012, however, they referred to the findings of a careful review of a certain bank or to the business outcomes of the banking sector in Slovenia. In view of the fact that it was also found at that time that these reports did not contain a specific basis for suspicion of certain crimes, however, the police, on the basis of certain further reports from certain entities and on the basis of their own activities and as part of the direction of the specialized state prosecutor's office, approached their legal powers and, therefore, within the period from 1. 1. 2013 to 29. Ten. 2014 completed the examination of 48 offences committed in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Of these, 38 criminal offences have been concluded with a criminal charge and 10 criminal offences have been reported to the prosecution after the 10th paragraph of Article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is sent in the event that there is no basis for a criminal complaint on the basis of the reports collected. Of these 38 offences, 31 criminal charges have been filed, of which 18 criminal charges have been filed with the specialized prosecutor's office and the rest have been filed with the District Attorney's Office. As regards the amount of property damage found for these 38 crimes for which the police have filed criminal charges, EUR 126 million 611 000 450 has been reported; here I explain that in the first response we gave you an approximate estimate of alleged damage around that time, the figure of EUR 112.4 million has been recorded. As far as the current hearing is concerned, the police are still dealing with 99 other crimes related to the operation of banks. All of these have already been notified to the competent prosecutions, most of which are directed by the specialized prosecutors, 33 cases, and in other cases, the prosecutions are directed by the district prosecutors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u73	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Dr. Gorenak, that's all I'd add, the Special Prosecutor's Office is currently leading – and that's probably bothering you – 13 procedures, which is the difference between the 18 criminal charges referred to by a colleague of the Minister of the Interior and otherwise the numbers are similar. There's no mystery in that. When we checked with the specialised state prosecutor's office, we were told, as we both know, that prosecutors are combining certain cases, reclassifying certain crimes. These complaints relate only to Article 240 KZ, which is an abuse of position or confidence in economic activities. I'd like to add something else. Your question, both in writing and orally today, was only about that confidential Bank of Slovenia and was followed by an answer. Both the question and the answer are incomplete as such. A slightly more comprehensive question, at least at the beginning of this month, came to me from your fellow Member and the chairman of the parliamentary group, Mr Tank, who asked what had been done with regard to the audits made by NKBM, NLB, Bank of Slovenia reports, as well as certain complaints made separately by the Bank of Slovenia. We will also answer him within the time limit set for business. I think that these data will be able to show a much more comprehensive picture of the situation in the area of investigation of this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u74	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u75	The more chance the minister ran out of time, the more I think he wanted to say something else. But you haven't answered anything, Minister. Look, the police say they filed 38 criminal charges, and here I'm told they received 13 indictments from the D.A.'s office. It's not about the same time period. I believe they're bringing them together, but I asked how many they got. However, they were received by 38 on the basis of the Ministry of the Interior's reply. Okay, there's 18 of them, but it says 13. I don't think the numbers are still going together. This is a more time-consuming opportunity for the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u76	Complementary response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you. No, the police gave the information and the secretary gave the information about 18. 13 of them currently have a specialised state prosecutor's office. That's because something overqualified them and put them on the state's district attorney's office. I would like to point out, see, that there is not really any of these cases in court. I would not agree with your little cynical remark that there is nothing to be expected in court. He can't be in court because there are no charges. Then we'll be able to identify ourselves to the work of the courts in this case. But right now, where there's no prosecutor, there's no judge. As far as numbers are concerned, we both know that numbers, only the number of criminal charges, or the number of criminal suspects, can be a statistically questionable category. Simply because you can have one or 200 suspects in one complaint. Under one crime you can have one million or 200 million. And here, in fact, we're going to have to look at a comprehensive answer. As we say, we are preparing it for your colleague, Mr Tank, because we do not have this information ourselves. And here we are, as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, unfortunately only the postmen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u78	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u79	Yes, thank you very much. Not so much now because of a severely flawed response, although I do not think that the numbers have been fully cleared yet, more because of the importance of this topic. This topic is of great importance. I think it is extremely important for all of us and that it is extremely important for all citizens. Look, they put a few more than 2,000 euros in these banks last year. And that money went somewhere. For this reason, it seems to me, above all, that I have to propose a discussion on the subject by the Rules of Procedure, that the Minister responsible for this area, the Minister of the Interior, and the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, maintain a condition, I will say, in subordinate services, that these services should be investigated, disclosed, and that these suspicions of criminal offences could also be found in court. My comment wasn't very cynical. It is true that there is nothing yet, as you say, of any incriminating proposal, but also of other matters, we see how far justice is away from some reality in this area. President, I propose that, despite everything, we hold a debate on this subject, because it seems to me that it will be useful for all of us, that it will say something to the citizens on the subject where this money went and, last but not least, that I will say to the investigating and prosecutor's services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u80	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. The following is asked by Mr Zdravka Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, and Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u81	Mr President, the House of Honor, thank you for your word! In fact, my question concerns the Minister of Environment first. In recent days, the Slovenian public has essentially been shaken by the news from Cinkarna Celje, because a survey was carried out by the Polish company Environ Poland, which found when they went to test the land in Mozir, Za Travnik and Bukovžlak, that there were 22 heavy, potentially carcinogen metals in these places, some up to 5 meters deep. For example, they discovered antimony, arsenic, cadmium, barium, lead, nickel, cobalt, and so on. At least three questions are now being asked here. The first question is: How is it possible that the Slovenian public has not been aware of this so far? Second question, which relates to the first. The procedure against Slovenia is already under way for Cinkarna Celje because it was launched by the European Commission at the beginning of the year. At that time, the Ministry of the Environment commissioned a study with the Grand Undertaking, Erica. This company has surprisingly discovered, however, that there are no hazardous substances in these places, which, of course, is now a new investigation by the Polish company into a lie. And in fact, I'm interested in: How is this possible, or are you already looking at the Ministry for potentially responsible ones, and how will you act against them? The following question is for Minister Restoration. Zincarna Celje is currently in the privatisation process and as we have seen in certain cases in Slovenia, for example, in Trubovlje Lafarge, privatisation also worsens the environmental picture because the private owner is even more in the interest of short-term profits, which is why I am interested: What will you do in the light of the privatisation process in this regard? The first problem is that the price of businesses is likely to decrease after this disclosure, and the second problem is, how can we avoid an ecological disaster or continue the disaster after the privatisation of this company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u82	Mrs Irena Majcen and Mr Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members of the Republic of the Moon! In response to your questions, I would like to begin by identifying the pollution of the Heavy Metal Cauldron with a number of studies. On the basis of the results of sampling analyses carried out in the last 10 years in the Celje area of more than five hundred years, with regard to the Regulation on maximum alert and critical emission levels of hazardous substances in the soil, a good six-fifty hectares of the narrow Celje area are over-polluted with heavy metals, cadmium, lead, zinc, arsenic. Pollution and these facts are, of course, the result of past industrial activities, as well as current ones, not only in Celje but also in its surroundings. The factory itself, so the Zincarna Celje has operated for more than a hundred and thirty years. It is true that Slovenia's entry into the European Union has also started with the implementation of legislation, including soil pollution and so-called old burdens. It is true that the Regulation for the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley was in some way prepared early this year, but it has been pointed out that before this procedure a new implementation of the Regulation on soil and several other documents have to be annexed to this Regulation. The Ministry will therefore proceed without delay to an expert study which will allow for the preparation of this Regulation on soil. That's why I don't agree with you that this data is so shaky, so new, something like that that the Slovenians have never been introduced to before. It is true that when we talk about procedures against Zincarna Celje, there are more locations to name or use this name. One is today's production of Cinkarna Celje, one is a landfill of hazardous solid waste Bukovzlak, one is a plant landfill Za Travnik, then is a plant landfill Bukovzlak, then an area of production in the old zinc plant and the area of Tehnopolis is the production of today's Cinkarna Celje and the area where the Municipality of Celje has built a Regional Waste Management Centre. For the purpose of inspection itself, which is primarily linked to the granting of an IPPS authorisation in Cinkarna Celje, on the basis of which limits were established for the individual parameters and the factory itself is obliged to report on the monitoring carried out for both soil and groundwater and air in accordance with the decision. Where these thresholds are exceeded, ARSO shall inform the inspection companies which then act. In this context, the inspection carried out regular and extraordinary controls in Cinkar Celje. A regulatory decision was also issued this year imposing that by the end of the year, due to the repeated abandonment of the pipeline by which it transports the cadre to the landfill, it should replace the first seven hundred metres of the pipeline. Furthermore, this year a regulatory decision was issued to Nivo. In the search for those responsible, it is certainly very important to indicate if there are any indications, if there are any behaviours, that is to say the object at which the level of this procedure is actually addressed to the Ministry, i.e. against whom to act. Only work on this project covers so many people that it is essential. It is true, however, that under the Environmental Protection Act, those who own or cause pay and also conduct inspection procedures when determining who caused the waste in these areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Does the Member of the month wish to supplement the question or answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister: How do you explain this discrimination during the study of the great company Erica and the Polish company Environ? Are there any investigative proceedings against those responsible in this regard? However, for the Minister, I keep the same question as before.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you. We propose that we give the Minister time to respond first.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u87	Madam President, Members, Members of Parliament, Mr Mesec. I must say that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is not responsible for the sale of companies in part state-owned, that it is as a project holder of the Ministry of Finance and not for the implementation of environmental policy. However, I must say that I am nevertheless very concerned that the environmental aspect of the operation of Cinkarna Celje is beginning to be problematic in the sales process. I must say that within the government we will strive to see these environmental problems, as far as I know, come from the past. This is about us assessing that it is most likely not a coincidence that these things have now emerged in the sales process. I also expect that the Slovenian State Holding will do whatever is necessary to ensure that the matters that have now come to the public do not affect the sales process and the price. This is because Zincarna Celje is a company with thousands of employees, 150 million euro of annual transport, exporting more than 80% of its production to global markets. The sale process started in October 2014 with an invitation to public selection of non-binding offers 12. 12. The selection of candidates to make binding offers was also published a few days ago, and I believe that the Slovenian State Holding will carry out this sales process with emphasis on this business's economic work. However, matters that have historically burdened the environment in Celje will have to be resolved. However, I believe that current business, what we have heard, is also taking place within the framework of regulatory environmental standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you. I also give the floor to Minister Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you. I would like to say that the analysis we have received from this company, which was the last to conduct an investigation, is extensive. First, it is necessary to check whether the depth of sampling matches for both companies, whether the set of all necessary research [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I think it's too soon to talk about any action today. [[…]] The first task is to check only the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you. Member of Mr. Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you. I would, however, be on the basis of paragraph 2 of 264. He proposed to the Rules of Procedure that the National Assembly should hold a debate on this issue. I don't think I've received satisfactory answers to either of the three questions. This does not mean what the health risks of the population are and what measures are envisaged to improve the situation in the Celje Cauldron, not what can be done in the privatisation process, and not how we will find those responsible for the situation or, above all, those responsible for the long-term public deception in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 December, in the framework of the votes. Next, Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At the end of 2013, we adopted an energy law. At first reading, I drew attention to a problem that can arise by establishing so-called energy cards. I have warned that the diction is in law, a simplification is arranged to produce the cards of existing buildings, thus ensuring an appropriate low cost of production." [[…]] And then a few sentences to have problems with this 333rd article of the law, especially with the fourth paragraph on multi-housing buildings, about who can issue a card, because it says: "authorized legal or natural person", and of course what bothers me most about individual laws, then this is the sentence when officials get their wings and do everything in their own way and they destroy such good content with their form. [[…]] This is because the details of the content, form and methodology for the issue of the energy card and the content of the data are prescribed by the Minister responsible for energy. And to conclude. In Article 540, we have: "... owners must ensure the implementation of paragraph 5 of this Act by 31 December 2014 at the latest." A few more days, we'll be separated by 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day Not only can the owners not do their job, but the problem is that the state didn't do it. Officials first amended the regulation when we launched the shouting and shouting about the high cost of energy cards. Then, almost six months later, they found that they had referred to the previous law and that the regulation was invalid. Now, Minister, it is your job to either change the law in these last breaths this year or make a new rule. Minister, I ask you: Who is to blame that the project of so-called energy cards is not yet in force? How will you solve the problem — whether by law or by law? I think we could change the law. Despite the EU Directive, we might extend the non-implementation of this for another year, perhaps in some other way avoiding fines. I'm interested in a timeline by 31. 12. In 2014, as we know, the Government must accept, it must be published in the Official Journal and with 1. 1. 2015 The owners are already subject to fines if they do not have energy cards on the issue or sale of housing or real estate. And to the end: How much lobbying was involved in the introduction of energy cards? Who's going to take responsibility for the stunt? I want the names and names of the officers. What do you think, did you reduce or increase bureaucracy in our country through this project?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you. The Minister of Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec! Thank you for the very current question to which I will try to give the most up-to-date answer. If I just go to the rules myself on the methodology for the production and issuance of energy cards. That's true. That's what we've been trying to change. We are introducing changes that will make it easier to produce energy cards for multi-housing buildings, so that they can also be issued separately for individual housing. And I intend to sign this Regulation tomorrow and the publication is scheduled for Friday in the Official Journal. So, Friday this week. If I could just explain a few things. The Regulation had to be adopted because of the new energy law adopted in March this year, namely the new content according to the old regulation: the way in which advertising in print media is regulated differently, then the control of issued energy cards and the possibility of producing an energy card for individual parts in multi-housing buildings. What I said was a key change. The latter is designed to enable the production of an energy card for a particular part of the building, i.e. for an apartment for a relative cost. This problem will therefore be solved due to the higher cost of the cost of an energy card for individual housing in multi-housing buildings with a common heating system. However, it is not true that so far these energy cards for individual apartments could not be produced or produced. In this regard, I would explain that energy cards are being issued and can be obtained in Slovenia from 4 July last year, that is, in 2013, more than a year and a half, so to speak, for multi-resident buildings and their individual parts. The problem was, however, that the construction of energy cards for individual parts in a multi-housing building with a common heating system had to take into account the characteristics of the building as a whole. This has resulted in a disproportionate cost for the production of such energy cards, as it made sense to produce an energy card for the entire building, as energy efficiency measures also relate to the entire building, which is also a practice in most other European countries. With the energy law in spring, however, we have made it possible for the production of energy cards to be financed from the reserve fund as a cost of regular building management, but for this purpose it is necessary to have a 50% consent of the roommates. Now, in most cases, no such agreement has been reached and this problem has arisen by the individual owner of the apartment. The price of such cards, if agreed by the tenants in the apartment building, is then the best for each apartment. In the adoption of the energy law, we have also sought more technical and legal solutions to the problem of energy cards in multi-housing buildings. We have decided that the burden of the solution will now be taken over by means of a technical solution, so that the rules provide for a special procedure that will allow the drawing up of a card for a particular part only, without the need to seek the consent of the roommates. That's it. There are also indications in the media why it is not possible to measure the energy card for each apartment. The key reason is that there is no comparability between the cards in this case, and in these cases it is not possible to obtain recommendations for energy recovery, and these measured quantities of heat energy on individual apartments are not entirely merciless, since they also include various factors, shares of shared spaces, etc. I'd like to say a few more things here. The time limit for having a card in advertising shall be one. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since 24. 2. However, 2015 must also provide a card at the time of sale. This is in all cases when it comes to selling or renting for a period longer than one year. I'm gonna say, based on my short time at the Ministry, I wouldn't want to say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Lisec is asking for a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you, Minister. I hope that you have read Article 333 of the Law and paragraph 4, "When the owner of a particular part of the building in a multi-housing building for which an energy card can only be issued for the entire building, order the issue of an energy card, the issued energy card is valid for the entire building." And today you say you're going to make a rule that will also regulate individual units inside a multi-housing building. In my opinion, Mr. Secretary, this will violate section 333 of the law. In my opinion, this kind of responsibility, if you break the law, will not only be on your officers, but also on you. Your Honor, I'd like to know - because you didn't answer, you said, tomorrow he's going to sign: What was the public's involvement in this project in the drafting of the rules of procedure? Your answer to my responsibility makes me very sad. I think I have to be responsible. That's why I want to know: How many people worked on this project? Who led this project? What is the cost of producing this project? Dear Minister, on the question of what will be the price of the cards, you said it would be the most favourable. In the first reading of the previous law, I received a text that said: "The highest price for the issue of an energy card will not be fixed, but the price of €200 to €500 for a one-bedroom house and €2 to €3,000 for a multi-bedroom building. And you say she'll be the nicest. I don't think any price is fair, but the answer to "the most pleasant" doesn't satisfy me at all. In short, I think, Mr. Secretary, that your officials had one year to do it. I don't blame you exclusively. I only blame you for the last month when you had to deal with this more specifically. But the fact is, officials haven't done their job in almost a year, and now you expect people to be from 1. 1. 2015 had an energy card and otherwise, according to the law, paid fines. Unserious from country to population, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Minister has the opportunity to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you. See, as stated, the cards may have been made all the time since July 2013, in multi-housing buildings as a card for the entire building, which is more expensive because the whole building has to be processed, but if the tenants manage to agree to pay from the reserve fund, in this case the unit of the apartment is thus the most advantageous for the individual apartment. Of course, if the tenant himself goes to make a card for his own apartment, this option is still cheaper than to make a card for the whole apartment, but not as favourable as if this cost for the entire building was shared by the tenants. That's what I wanted to explain. I hope it's clear enough. As to how much the project cost, I can't give you the numbers right now, but I can give you this information later.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u101	Very briefly. I propose a debate because the Minister has not answered more than half of the questions, nor has he answered the key question whether the rulebook is in breach of the law; in short, in breach of the Energy Act. I propose a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister and Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! This year we were in an environment from which I come, i.e. in Notranjska, faced with major natural disasters, first in February with an acorn, and then in autumn months with three abundant floods. The floods affected the Municipality of Loška dolina, as well as many other municipalities, Logatec, Cerknico, Postojno and Ilirsko Bistrica. Even the most urgent damage from the September floods has not been remedied, since our area was covered by two new flood waves in November. The damage is huge, both on the facilities and on the infrastructure as well as on the equipment. Most of the damage to the insurance companies will not be recovered as the facilities and equipment are either uninsured or do not have any flood insurance as a special insurance risk. Many residents, including entire families, who have withdrawn from flooded homes, now have no place to return, for the water has destroyed all their equipment in them. At least the most essential equipment, furniture and household machinery would be needed to stay. Many affected people do not have the means to buy new equipment, nor do they have any possibility of hiring a loan. While the Commission is described as damage to the facilities, these resources by the State will arrive at a delay of at least half a year, and these will only be earmarked for the rehabilitation of the facilities. However, the State should also provide the affected citizens with certain funds intended for the most urgent conditions of residence. Madam Minister, I ask you: In what way will you provide the necessary means to provide the people with the most essential housing equipment and thus provide the most basic conditions for the affected population? I am talking about a region that is economically one of the weakest in Slovenia. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you. Ms Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you, Madam President-in-Office, Mrs Iva Dimic. Slovenia has been hit several times by natural disasters this year, and this is a larger one. These accidents have also caused great material damage. In February, part of the territory of Slovenia was affected by the stomach, followed by the south and caused extensive floods in overriding karst lakes, and also by a large number of earth’s beaches. In August, storms and floods affected the region of Polhove Grad and Koroška, but unfortunately the estimated damage did not reach the threshold for the use of state budget funds to address the consequences of natural disasters. In the autumn months, floods took place each month; that is, between September 12th and 16, between October 21st and 24th, and between November 6th and 14th. So far, there has been a process of assessing direct material damage due to these natural disasters, damage to the stomach, now we will talk about approximate figures, 430 million, damage after the floods in September 154 million. The damage assessment process following the floods in October and November is still under way. The use of State budget resources to remedy the consequences of natural disasters is defined by the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents and in accordance with the provisions of the Law and, on the basis of the acts adopted by law, State budget resources may be used to partially restore damaged facilities intended to stay or to carry out activities. The Ministry of the Environment and Space, in accordance with the provisions of the law, is responsible for the renovation of buildings owned by the Ministry, local communities, owned by persons governed by public law, whose founder is a local community, as well as for the restoration of property owned by private persons. In doing so, it should be noted that the law expressly prohibits the allocation of State budget resources provided under this Act in order to ensure the basic conditions for life, intervention and other measures in accordance with the rules governing the protection against natural and other disasters. Thus, the Ministry of the Environment and Space does not have a legal basis for allocating funds to the State budget, except in the manner laid down by the law. It should be said that, in accordance with the applicable rules, socially disadvantaged persons may receive one-off financial assistance in the event of a natural disaster on the basis of regulations governing the social field and decided by the competent social work centres. Notwithstanding what has been said so far, it is necessary to establish that the implementation of the measures for the protection and resolution of natural disasters, as well as the removal of the consequences of natural disasters between the original competences of the local community and the mayor, as provided for by the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, for which a reserve of the budget of the municipality is also established. Thus, the municipalities are obliged to provide temporary accommodation for the most endangered population within their means. Finally, we have often also witnessed the collection of funds, the humanitarian collection of funds for such damages, because it is known that the possibility that objects or if we are looking at agriculture now, namely that agricultural land, agricultural land production can be protected from damage after floods, is in some way appropriate for citizens to ensure security by means of this instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you. Mrs. Dimic would like a complete reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. This is why I mentioned once again that I am talking about a region that is among the most economically weak in Slovenia. This means that, in fact, there is very low employment or high unemployment among the population and that wages are guaranteed or at the lowest possible level in the region. Therefore, I say that many citizens do not have the financial resources to be able to provide some kind of insurance. At the same time, I would add that most of those congregations affected by the November floods in September were affected by the month of February and that the municipalities from their reserve intervention funds had already exhausted all funds for immediate relief. However, as far as I know, I do not know if the Government has, or if the country also has, this reserve fund, from which it can draw funds immediately, not one month or two months after the accident. I am talking about this, and at the same time I ask you again, Madam Secretary-General: Will you take the initiative to amend the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Accidents, which will also provide the affected with funds for the purchase of replacement equipment damaged in natural disasters, not least firefighting and economic equipment? I think we're talking about things that are actually essential for these people to go back to their homes. They've been trying to recover themselves twice this year, and there's nowhere to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you. Madam Minister, please allow me to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u109	The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will explore the possibility of providing part of the funds to humanitarian organisations in order for the most affected citizens to receive the necessary money and equipment. However, it should be stressed that the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters is not a legal social correction, although it also contains a strong social note. Therefore, in the first place, as a good master, each owner must take care of his own property, in particular with appropriate insurance in insurance companies. We also know that we have often found a different response to the EU's flood warning measures. So, some citizens took these warnings very seriously and made sure that in residential buildings or, I would say, in production plants, much had been done, that water was not being watered, while other citizens did not pay so much attention and there was, of course, much more damage. In the first place, as a good master, everyone has to take care of himself, and I stress this mainly because similar events can happen to us again next year or in the future many times. The socialisation of risks due to natural disasters, represented by the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, must not and cannot replace the ownership responsibility of the owner. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Environment and Space has been preparing for a long time to amend this law, especially because we are aware of the importance of the rapid allocation of necessary and appropriate resources. It is true, however, that by amending the rules on disaster management, with which we want to achieve greater efficiency in particular and reduce the time that is now needed to prepare programmes to remedy consequences and disasters, it can change at the time of coordination, there can be conversions, so that this is the work that awaits us in the following year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr Primož Hainz will ask the Minister for Defence Mr Janko Webr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, ministerial assembly! I'm asking Mr. Jank Weber: What do you intend to do with former military facilities that are empty and decaying? A specific case I am interested in is the area in which the former Vojašnica stood and operated on 26 October – the renamed Vojašnica Ivan Cankar at Vrhnika. This area has been empty for several years now, objects are falling, bushes are growing. The municipality of Vrhnika is the Ministry of Defence with a letter, as well as at joint meetings, has repeatedly suggested that it would make sense for certain facilities in that area to be allocated to the use of the municipality, but to date it has not. There are many reasons for the usefulness of such an assignment. Let me just say the most important. In the municipality of Vrhnika, a higher number of admissions to primary school is envisaged in the coming years, and the municipality should therefore provide additional facilities for the school activities of Anton Martin Slomška Primary School. Restoring a barracks or classroom facility in addition to a newly built kindergarten would allow this requirement to be met. The municipality also needs premises for the enterprise incubator, as unemployment has increased after the closure of larger companies and young people need to be allowed room for the development and operation of entrepreneurship. A solution is also sought to reduce the traffic burden. At the site of the former military station, the municipality could arrange for an appropriate northern bypass. Although some sports companies have rooms in free rent, they are in very poor condition, it is necessary to connect to sewerage and to the water network. The needs for premises for the operation of societies and associations also show in the field of culture, and for many years there has been a need to regulate the youth centre. Rather than allowing the former Vojášnica to fail on 26 October, it would make sense that, at least in the pursuit of economic management of its assets, the State would assign Vrhnika to the municipality for permanent use or rent for a longer period of time, allowing the municipality to decide on the increased investment needed for the purpose of the possibility of using and changing its activities. I want to know: Will you address these problems, and in what way will you do so? For the further deterioration of the facilities in the face of clearly expressed needs and commitment of the local community is not only useless, but also unacceptable. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber, Minister for Defence, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to my colleague Hainz. In the introduction, I must say that at the Ministry of Defence, we are working to try to sell all the unsuspecting properties for a reason, because then we are earmarking these funds for regulation, modernisation or new construction within those barracks that we need to operate the Slovenian Army. In short, it is a resource that we want to create ourselves so that we can solve all the needs or part of the needs that we have within our own troops. In particular, this part of which you ask me, Vojašnica, on 26 October in Vrhnika, is defined in one part as non-predictive and is therefore already included in the decree of the National Assembly on the management of the real property of the State for a given year for the purpose of divestment. Despite the fact that this is a very attractive location, it is noted that investors do not choose to buy because there is a need to invest very much money in infrastructure, so that each military station or facility can then live at all, or that the entire complex can function with a regulated infrastructure. So one of the problems is how to provide infrastructure that will then be the basis for us to properly integrate this complex into the development needs of the municipality or other private investors. In addition, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Defence has cooperated very closely with the municipality at all times and is also part of these facilities already dedicated to activities which have been shown or for which interest has been shown in the area of Vrhnika. Thus, part of these facilities is already intended for the purposes of the Institute for Sport, Culture and Tourism and also for Strelska društvo Vrhnika and Sportno Lokóstrská društvo has also spaces in the former military. At the same time, in the event of a kindergarten fire in Vrhnika, we came to help with the way that some of the facilities were intended for kindergarten. It is also a part of these lands owned by the municipality of Vrhnika, so that it can also expand the kindergarten that already works there and this also follows those needs that you have highlighted in your question. At the same time, I must say that this complex is also interesting for individual ministries. For example, the Ministry of Transport has already arranged one of these facilities for its needs, the Ministry of Public Administration wants to arrange part of this complex for the needs of the administrative unit in Vrhnika, and the Ministry of Defence has also defined part of this complex as a perspective because we want to arrange an archive in one of these parts because we simply lack space in the existing premises. That is how the interest in regulating this work, represented by Vojšnica 26. In October, it intertwines a number of stakeholders. At this point, perhaps the problem is that the existing complex is not maintained and is likely to give a visual bad image. Although we have concluded contracts both with the Ivan Cankar Institute for Culture, Sport and Tourism and with the Strelski društvo Vrhnika and with the Society for Sports Shooting, we agree to also take care of the basket of this complex, all the way to the sidewalks. Some things will probably also need to be looked at in order to make the entire complex look better and, I would say, less burdensome for the environment in which it is located. In short, it is of interest that the complex is intended for the needs of the congregation, and further arrangements will have to be made for the congregation to reach these lands. And if we go into this form, as you said in your question that it can be used or similar, this process will have to be carried through the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, because it is a form of regional development [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thanks for the answer. Mr Primož Hainz wishes to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Then I have – if this is the will, I will say, on both sides – then I have a request on behalf of the congregation, if I may say so, the territory on which I was elected to decide as soon as possible what I would like with this facility and then, of course, also tell the congregation where its share could be, so that the congregation can behave rationally in view of the problems that are being pointed out in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you. We will certainly approach these issues by the Ministry of Defence. I have already told the framework that because it is possible to sell off some part of the land or facility in order to obtain funds. Otherwise, we will speed up all of these procedures, which are necessary for us to agree with the municipality, which part is promising for them, and that the municipality can then establish contacts, for example, with the Ministry of Economy, which also defines the procedure for these properties, which would also be suitable for the needs of the economy, including infrastructure. Some of these needs, as I said, will also be addressed within individual ministries. It would probably not be too much if we also tried to form one coordination group, where we could coordinate the interests of individual ministries as well as the municipalities, so that this complex could be brought to life as soon as possible. So this initiative that you have given, I will take very seriously and also continue these procedures to bring about the regulation of this complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask a question to the Minister without a department responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mr Gorazd Žmavc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, a nice greeting to all ministers and ministers and colleagues and colleagues! I ask the following questions to the Minister without a department responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world. The Commission for Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide is at its 2nd urgent session 5. 11. 2014 addressed the issue of reform of local administrations in the country of Furlania-Julian landscape in the light of the reduction of the power of decision-making of Slovenian mayors, the lower impact of bilingual municipalities in the planning of so-called Medo-Chinese territorial unions and the consequent reduction of the protection of the Slovenian minority in these provinces. At that meeting, the Commission also adopted conclusions and called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue, taking into account the position of the Slovenian minority in Italy, its efforts to protect its rights and also to propose to the Office of the President of the Republic to support efforts by both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and minorities to ensure the protection of the rights of the Slovenian minority. During the interim period, some events took place and we can see in the media, in particular in the media, that the Furlania-Julia Regional Council approved the reform of local administrations on 26 November with the votes of both the centre and the centre of the centre. At this meeting at the time, which was closed to the public, we have adopted quite a few conclusions and guidelines, in particular in the direction that we need to unify our views if we are to achieve that reform avoiding the deprivation of rights to our minority. According to the information we can read in the Italian media, the minority has to some extent been uncoordinated in this case, and there have also been problems on our part to implement certain proposals. I do not think any of the proposals of minorities and our representatives have been adopted, so I ask, given that the Land Council has approved the reform of local self-government, the Minister: How will the commission, or how will the Minister for Slovenians take action in the future, both in place and around the world? For it is necessary to realize that the abolition of the autonomy of individual municipalities in which the Slovenian minority is in the dominant majority can be fatal for minority rights in Italy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you. Minister, Mr. Gorazd Žmavc, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u121	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member Daniel Krivec, given the question you have asked me, I must say that I share my concerns with you and that this is a matter that is extremely sensitive not only now in this process of coordination and adoption of this law, but also further and in implementation. However, I have to say that in the Italian Republic, too, in the Furlania-Julia region this year, this process was intensive in particular with regard to the reorganisation of the public administration due to the reduction of the costs, and consequently the gradual abolition of municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants. Most of our municipalities and Slovene population also belong in the municipality, where it has a major part also with Slovenes. I must say that this has been a very alarming process for us, and in this way we have begun to engage intensively in coordination, particularly in the political part of coordination with our organisations on this common position, how to proceed. However, I must say that this reform of local autonomy in the Furlania-Julia landscape did not at first define, in fact did not mention the Slovenian national minority at all, nor did it mention the protection legislation or all that follows the protection legislation in order to protect these municipalities. However, I must say below that we are also at the initiative of Foreign Minister 4. 11. We called on the consultative body and, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, invited representatives of minorities and certain legal experts. We have agreed that we will also try to take a concerted view in the process of adopting the legislation itself. On this basis, an expert group was also formed, which then worked in Trieste and was mainly involved in the formulation of two amendments, which were then mostly adopted and included in the adoption of the law itself, by extending or extending the text in such a way as to ensure the implementation of protection standards in accordance with Articles 8, 9, 10 and 21 of Law 38/2001 in the territory of the municipalities provided for in Article 4 of the Law on Protection. In this way, the Slovenian national minority is guaranteed the same level of rights as it has already belonged to it in the cited territory. However, we estimate that the amendments to the Land Act adopted by these amendments are, in fact, a positive acquisition that this has been taken into account mainly by the position of the majority of representatives of the Slovenian national minority in Italy. In the following activities, we believe that, in particular at the time of adoption of the sub-laws, procedures should be carefully adopted to ensure that the guarantees for the Slovenian national minority are also actually made alive in practice. In addition to appointing this so-called expert group, which continues to monitor all activities, we have also taken the initiative to set up a so-called legal office that will closely monitor these legislative changes, which will also be open and that we have received 12. 12. also a letter to the note also sent by the Foreign Ministry, the Prime Minister of the Land with assurances – 12. 12. — to take into account, in the light of the adoption of the law and of these amendments, all the obligations which Italy and the Italian State have with regard to the protection laws, conventions and the Paris Convention of 1954. That's one thing now. Secondly, I must say that during this time I also actively conducted interviews with representatives of minorities in Trieste; I was on an official visit to Venice last week, this week, and at the end of the week I also think that these regular contacts will actually continue to work together for the future. [[turn off the microphone]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Daniel Krivec requires a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you for your answers, Your Honor. But there were some strange dilemmas in the answers, so I'll be very brief on the question. You have estimated that, given that legislation has been adopted at the country level, that it was somehow a majority position in minorities, that this must be supported in some way and that it will be possible later to apply all these exceptions, which were also agreed at this closed meeting. I'm just interested in your opinion on this point: Are you really assessing, given that we have failed in this first legislative work, that it will be possible to influence sub-legislative acts in view of the fact that a possibility has been taken away from both the Office and the Foreign Ministry, and not least in the legislative process? But I don't think anyone will even be asked about this when it comes to law-abiding acts, so I doubt it. That's why I'm interested in your position: Do you think that it was precisely this view that this reform should still be carried out and that certain things can later be remedied, that it also took away the possibility of greater pressure from both the Office, the Foreign Ministry and our country in order to properly comply with all these international rules, all those laws that apply to minority rights? Because I think it's a big mistake that's going to be very difficult to fix. I'm interested in your opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u125	Dear Member, I share your view that very much work needs to be regulated at the time of the adoption of the law, but this law has been passed by a majority and the procedure has run out in Parliament or in the country world as it has. I think we've secured the manoeuvre with these amendments. However, there will be a need for manoeuvre so that we can further coordinate and try to enforce at this second level of self-government, in particular, full protection legislation as it has been implemented so far. However, this will also require great political will, and will also require the activities and relations of the highest representatives, including the President of the Government and, as you stated in point 4 of the conclusion, also to recommend to the President of the Republic that he engages in this issue, that the protection of the minority should be exercised above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ma'am mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will ask questions to Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanislavi Setnikar Cankar and Minister of Culture Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Modern information and communication technologies pose great risks and unfortunately also a number of potential abuses as they allow everyone to record anyone and the latter on the Internet, irrespective of whether the recorded person agrees. Unfortunately, young people are not aware of the potential consequences or of the question of the right to privacy and thus of the signs of crime in such cases. Why am I stressing this? We have recently witnessed a flood of information about the recording of alleged sexual relations between two educators at one of the high schools in Maribor. The video was supposed to be published by one of the students who was supposed to record it on his cell phone. Shortly thereafter, one of those teachers, unfortunately, committed suicide. I must say that this tragic act gave me reason, and I have had many questions about the appropriateness of the conduct of all involved in this story. Above all, I am disappointed that this tragedy has not shaken us enough to force us to consider and take appropriate measures and to guide us in such cases in the future. Since students are also involved in the story, I ask the competent minister: Will this tragic story encourage the ministry and the competent school institutions to deal with the issue of the safe and appropriate use of the world’s Internet, borders on privacy and online harassment, with full respect for the late teacher? These teachers suffered unlawful interference with their privacy, and their dignity was also affected. Normally, such an event would only take place within the school, perhaps even wider in the local space and in the nearest ones, if it were not used by some media outlets to make a media story out of it. Those who did not report it were later severely condemned for this type of media coverage. Some housing associations also believe that an important part of Slovenian media has violated basic professional and ethical standards and has infringed on the right to privacy of two previously anonymous individuals and their families. According to renowned media expert Dr. Marko Milosavljevic, these media outlets, which have published or offered links to the video, have violated the Media Act or the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which travels to the protection of children and adolescents also through the broadcast of inappropriate content for them and the publication of links to sexual content. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Culture: In the present case, how did the Cultural and Media Inspectorate and the Communications Network Agency act as a result of these violations? I also ask: Will it launch a broad public debate on this case and the conduct of the media and on their social role? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u128	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We thought it would be the other way around, so the Minister of Education, but that's fine. Nice greeting, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member of the Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšek! The question relating to our ministry essentially relates to the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture and Media, which is an independent body in the composition of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. Following this event, the Slovenian Cultural and Media Inspectorate received five applications relating to alleged violations of Article 84(8) of the Media Act, on online electronic publications, that is, the protection of children and minors. He reacted immediately and launched an inspection procedure against the issuers of online electronic publications. With regard to the supervision of the provisions of Article 84 of the Media Act, it should be clarified that the Inspectorate is not competent to protect children and minors relating to television programmes, as the provision has been cited, with the exception of Article 84, paragraph 8, of the Media Act relating to online electronic publications, by the introduction of the Audiovisual Media Services Act. In order to monitor the provisions of the Audiovisual Media Services Act, including the regulation of the protection of children and minors in television programmes, it is indeed the responsibility of an independent body of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, so-called AKOS. The inspector responsible for the media shall be 26. 11. 20114 On the basis of its official duty on the basis of applications, a review of the electronic publication Moškisvet.com was carried out as it was possible to access erotic and pornographic content completely without technical protection or restrictions on the website mentioned. There was also a direct link in the news to PornHub’s foreign pornographic site. Therefore, the Inspector concluded that, due to the nature of the infringement, this is due to access to content on the Internet, action must be taken immediately and the electronic publication publisher must be informed or alerted without delay and at the same time require the immediate withdrawal of the software content in the online electronic publication. The Inspectorate shall be immediately following receipt of the applications and following a visit to the website referred to above, which shall also consist of a record of the content referred to above, on 26. 11. 2014 made a phone call with the responsible editor of the online electronic publication Malesvet.com, in which she warned the responsible editor of non-compliance with the provisions of Article 84(8) of the Media Act and called on her to remove immediately the link to the pornographic website and the controversial video and photographs with pornographic content on the media's website. At the time of the telephone conversation with the inspector, the responsible editor removed all controversial pornographic content and thus prevented minors from accessing those contents. She is also an inspector immediately after receiving her application and after visiting the website www.slovenskenovice.si with allegedly controversial content on 27. 11. 2014 made a telephone call with the deputy editor responsible, in which she warned her of non-compliance with the provisions of Article 84(8) of the Media Act, and urged her to remove immediately the controversial photograph with pornographic content on the media's online link. Maybe I'll let the secretary have a few more words, and then I'll be together. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u130	Here you go, Minister of Education, Science and Sports.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u131	Dear Member! In fact, I thank you for this question, which has really raised a number of additional questions. First of all, how it reacts, say, the Ministry under such conditions, we have put ourselves in the position because procedures have been initiated, so that until we have the results of these procedures, we do not actually take any official position. But I have to share with you that at least in some media this position was even problematic, because it was the topic that was supposed to be the most interesting one that day, that week, the whole country. So there's a real problem reaction that's [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u132	Mrs Klanjšček may make a request to complete the reply. Just a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u133	I'd like to ask you to give us some more time so our secretary can answer all the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u134	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u135	What this case has shown is, on the one hand, some terrible aggression, at least some – most of the media, without regard for the possible and, unfortunately, later really realized consequences. Here we responded by inviting the late director to a meeting before this unfortunate event, discussing how to deal with students, how to organize the teaching process, and, above all, offering him all the help, including professional help. Sadly, things ended most tragically, as some have warned from the beginning at a time when they might still have an impact on the course of events. Well, certainly when the procedure is concluded – so I have information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs that the police procedure is not finished, so it is not clear whether it is a juvenile or a full-time offender. When this information is known, or when the findings are clear, it would certainly be along with the Ministry of Culture and perhaps other ministries and other bodies — we immediately attracted the Ombudsman — but perhaps in the wider circle we could think about what we could do to avoid similar events, especially in the media. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Internet, on the one hand, offers enormous opportunities within the broader social frameworks and is not realistic enough to turn the young generation away from the use of the Internet. On the contrary, we need to educate her; we need to ensure that they are aware of the possible consequences. There are projects at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and I will list only some. Since 2011 it has been funded by European funding program Safe on the Internet, then Safe.si, Tom, Web Eye, Center for Safer Internet. But also as a result of this event, we note that more will have to be done, especially in the educational, educational field, to present the potential for negative interventions also in the privacy of the internet.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Maria Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers! My parliamentary question will concern the construction of regional emergency centres. My question will focus on the Gori region or the North Sea health region. As you have been able to monitor in recent weeks and days, there has been a whole series of problems in terms of construction, in a way, I must say, with a happy ending. 3. 12. I have addressed the Government with a public call that I have warned about certain, I will say, shortcomings in the direction of implementation of the promised. I have to say, in a way, we did it together. First of all, I would like to point out here three ministers, Mrs Alenka Smercolj, Dušan Maramor and Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, so that we together in some pragmatic way have found a solution to this. I know that it is not the usual place to find a kind word or to commend it, but under the circumstances it is my duty to do it, and I thank you all and thank you for finding a way. All we know is that the Ministry of Health has been in recent months, I'll say, without a master. I believe that it was very difficult for Minister Kolar Celarc to find a solution. And I'm gonna take this opportunity to ask her: What are the follow-up procedures, hands? We know that we are tied to the final construction in 2015 and again: let me thank you. Thank you very much, very good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u138	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Dear Members! Dear Mr. German! On this occasion, I am glad that a person hears not only a question but also a commendation for the effort we are making in our work. I'll be pretty specific. On 25 November, at the Ministry of Health, we received a decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European cohesion policy on the allocation of funds for the Nova Gorica Emergency Centre project. This Decision was adopted on 24 November. Regrettably, however, the decision stated that the project exceeds the envisaged funding in the 2015 budget, which is why the beneficiary should in essence ensure that the 2015 budget is increased to a total of EUR 4.4 million on its budget lines. Well, when we connect our heads and look for possible solutions at the Ministry of Health, we found a solution mainly because of the reason not to miss the construction season, because we know that in Primorska we can also build in winter, and given that by using European funds, we have a limited deadline for these centres to be built, then we found a solution to the government on Friday, December 12th, we adopted a decision on the basis of which this project, the Emergency Centre of Nova Gorica, was a joint development programme plan for the period 2014-2017. On the same day, I also signed a contract this afternoon because the tendering and all other documentation was prepared. That day we also informed the contractor as well as the General Hospital Nova Gorica. I assume that construction or all activities for the construction of this centre will begin today. Finally, let me answer the Member's question on deadlines. This is said to be completed by the end of October 2015 and the supply and installation of equipment one month later, until 30 November 2015, which is also due. For this reason, we estimate that the Emergency Centre will be built in accordance with the required deadlines and will begin to serve its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ms Eva Irgl will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the distinguished Minister for the Environment and Space! In recent times, heavy rains and floods have caused more and more problems in our country, as well as creeping reptiles. In particular, the troubled reptiles are of greater scope, for which the National Assembly has also adopted a special law. Since I come from the Vipav Valley and I've been following this story all along, which I think should have been solved a long time ago, it's not, and I'm particularly interested: How's the rescue of the beach Slano mud in Ajdovščina? According to the known data so far, some €10 million have been allocated to the rehabilitation of this beach, and this beach is still causing major problems and problems. In the last two years, recovery is expected to be halted due to lack of funds. We do know, however, that we have recently received a total amount of approximately €90 000 for the rehabilitation of the larger beaches in the 2014 budget. But that's the total amount for practically all the reptiles in this larger range. I would also like to mention that all these years landowners, and not only in this beach – said Slano mud in the municipality of Ajdovščina – but also elsewhere in this influential area of the beach, should not approach their lands, should not manage them, should not carry out any traffic with them, and therefore, of course, the damage caused by the failure of this beach is also caused by this wage. Many delegations, both at the state level and at the municipal, local level, have repeatedly looked at this beach, have repeatedly proposed some new studies, they have been wise, but in the end it has turned out to be an investment that has a rather poor performance, despite the fact that some 10 million euros have already been allocated to the rehabilitation of this beach. As an investor in the rehabilitation of the beach, I am interested in: When do you intend to end your investment in rehabilitating this beach? You may not be able to give me an accurate answer now, but then at least you would expect me to get a written answer, for, after all, this is also about the protection or safety of citizens and citizens of the Ajdovščina Congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you. The answer will be given by Minister Irena Majcen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thank you, Madam President, honourable Member Eva Irgle! We have already discussed the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, but the appearance of the Earth's beach is defined as a natural disaster and is being resolved as such in accordance with the provisions of this Act. In Slovenia we have seven areas of large beaches; in addition to that mentioned by you, there is a beach Stolže in the Municipality of Bovec, the beach Strug nad velje Kosec in the municipality of Kobarid, the beach Podmrak in the municipality of Šempeter-Vrtojba, the beach Gradište nad Prvačino in the municipality of Nova Gorica, and the beach Šmihel nad Ozeljan and the beach Macesnik in the municipality of Solčava. Why am I mentioning all these reptiles? Since all these beaches in the area of Slovenia are defined as large reptiles and in fact threaten many; not only citizens and citizens or citizens in these areas, they also threaten potential visitors, they endanger infrastructure. In 2006 a specific budget item was created to address the problem of individual terrestrial beaches in this large area, which financed emergency remedial measures on individual beaches dedicated to holding the beach or not moving and controlled its catastrophic consequences. But they're not blocked, they're controlled. Why aren't they blocked? Because of the fact that in these large reptiles, of course, there is no control or control over the activity of such a beach, either in nature or now in the case of rainfall or in the event of earthquakes. The rehabilitation of all these beaches would necessarily require more than €37 million, which is a large item in the times in which we make up our budgets. It is true that for the influential areas of Macesnik beach in the municipality of Solčava and for this beach Slano mud in the municipality of Ajdovščina, the state-owned site plans are not yet made. Professional grounds must first be provided. As you yourself have mentioned, professional bases are not usually designed in a way that we all agree with them, because the expertise of making such foundations is difficult and on the other hand requires great responsibility. Regardless of the forecast that you will ask me another question and let me also answer you in writing – as far as I am concerned, of course, written answers will be provided to you. However, at the time I give you this oral answer, I can tell you that I can assure you when this plasma will be cured, when the funds will be provided – not only now, but also for a while. It is also true that this is seven large beaches, but in Slovenia we still have many medium- and small-scale beaches based on events related to natural disasters. There are also no funds available for the rehabilitation of these beaches from 2012 onwards, so that these measures or those rehabilitations are still at large. It is true, however, that in some cases, the rehabilitation of such a beach is also financially large, depending on what we achieve by recovery or by recovery alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I am quite disappointed with this answer, the distinguished Minister of Environment and Space. However, I expected, if not for a precise date, when the matter will be recuperated, because I understand that this cannot be said, that you will at least tell when this recovery plan will begin to begin to take place around here. For you said that no recovery plan was ever made at this time – specifically for the beach I was talking about, i.e. Slano mud in the municipality of Ajdovščina – which is the problem, respected minister. While we can say here that there is no money and so on, there are threats to the lives of people, including those who come to these areas, you yourself have said this in your opening address. Well, we both agree that's the problem. But you're in this position where you're expected to get rid of it as soon as possible. This case has been going on for too long. I hope that you will continue to think and give me a more precise written answer, so that people living in this area can also know what they expect, at least in what appropriate time and in what way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u147	Your Honour, I thank you kindly for your comment. However, when responding, I would like to reiterate that the Law on Measures to Eliminate the Effects of Certain Ground-Ballasts has reached a greater extent in 2000, 2001. That there has been a lot of time between then and now and so surely taken on the promise that now we will do something, is not in my nature, is not in my way of working. Once again, I stress that the professional basis or opinions of experts to draw up such a recovery plan must be harmonised and designed to such an extent that such a plan can then be taken as a basis for planning further measures and that the preparation of such a plan is also a major challenge for experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of the Interior, Ms Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Minister! We have talked a lot about the situation in the Slovenian police in the past days and have also adopted a concrete decision on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the home committee to improve the situation. There's a government on the move that you're sitting in. I believe that it will follow these needs, especially the needs of citizens, because, lastly, we are talking about constitutional matter, the country's priority, that is security. These days we have also talked more than anything about human rights and violence against women, so somehow in sign 25. 11th International Day against Violence against Women, and 10. 12th World Human Rights Day. Although personally, as you know, I have not put my trust in myself because I believe that in this house we can do much more against violence. And my question is just a step in this direction. It is known that violence in the home environment and in partnership is often hidden and remains behind the four walls. It is often a case of violence, where social distress and poor family conditions are also followed by violence. In preventing domestic violence, the police have the same important role to play, since they can prevent the worst. Thus, I am informed, or cruel, that a woman who has been subjected to violence does not hope to call the police for help, worryingly. First of all, I was shocked by the reason they cited him. They literally cannot afford to call or mediate the police. In practice, when police officers arrive at the scene of the infringement, the charges against each other often continue, as well as contradictory statements. A police officer writes a bill to both of them involved. So the payment of the statutory fine falls on both; and here is the original problem. That's why I'm asking you, and at the same time I'm calling: What do you intend to do to prevent citizens from calling for help from financial distress, which is only escalating?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you. Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u151	Madam President, I thank you for the floor. I also thank the Members for the question. I must say that I am very pleased that on this issue Members actually subliminate one very worrying fact about the police, namely the poor financial situation in the police. In this context, I would like to point out, in my opening remarks, that since the assumption of the office of Minister of the Interior, I am actively committed to ensuring that the police are provided with the best possible working conditions, which means that the police will have the opportunity to carry out their legal tasks without question the prevention of domestic violence in a very important place or one of the most important tasks. The powers of the police as part of the prevention of domestic violence are clear and enshrined in the Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family of 2008 and also in the sub-laws, as well as in the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police and also in the Law on Criminal Procedure. It is clear from all these rules that the level of tolerance to violence in society or in the family must be null and void. Police annually deal with 80,000 crimes, among which domestic violence plays an important statistical role. Any violence reported to the police must be responded to, whether it is a crime or an offence, including the investigation, the collection of notices and evidence of each individual case and the further cooperation of the police with other institutions in the so-called professional assistance network. We know that domestic violence is a complex social phenomenon requiring inter-resortmental treatment, which means that the police are actively involved in social, health, education, judiciary and also non-governmental organisations because of strong action in the field of prevention. Statistics show that the police are very active in preventing domestic violence. In 2013, a total of 927 measures for the prohibition of approximation were adopted and this year, up to 2 December, 955 for comparison only, 841 of these measures were adopted last year. The implementation of these measures is increasing in line with the increasing trend or the crime of domestic violence itself. Last year, a total of a thousand 372 such acts were recorded throughout the year, and this year only in the first half of the year, 811 crimes have been reported. The police are also involved in the establishment or implementation of safety plans for victims, including the control of the measures already imposed to prohibit approximation, irrespective of the regulation on the basis of which it was issued. Information on the measures available to the victims is also provided on the police website, which has also been summarized by NGOs, which is also very positive by the Ombudsman. The police, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, have also joined the Vesna project – to live a life without violence. The aim of this project was to deepen the expertise of those professions that are most actively involved in various forms of assistance to victims of crime. Once again, in this context, there is also a very important environmental response, which can greatly help to make the police's response even more timely and even more effective in view of the fact that it can also prevent the worst, that is, the tragic consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you. The Member State shall request a supplement to the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Maybe we didn't get along so well. This isn't about police work. Undoubtedly, they do their work properly. The fact is, when they arrive at the scene, it's actually difficult to decide who the cause is or whether it's one or both. In these cases, a police officer has to act as a judge, and then they both get deep down. And that's the problem. I'm talking about a systemic problem, because once the fine is written, it has to be paid, and because women are afraid of financial consequences, they don't hope to call the police anymore. That's the problem I'm talking about, and that's what we need to do systemically. The fact is, such stories will begin to come to a more tragic conclusion than they already have. That's what I was personally warned about. Strikes must not be the reason that financial distress on the other hand means that we have to endure them. This is also a problem in this country right now. That's what I want your answer to.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Given that your question concerns determining the actual situation on the ground and just sanctioning the offences on the ground, in this particular case or at this point, I cannot give you concrete answers, because I do not know what you are talking about, which case, who issued the offence, how the actual situation is. I can't answer that. As I have already mentioned, the implementation of police tasks in the field of domestic violence is one of the priorities. In view of the fact that you initially referred to the poor financial situation in the police, I can only say this: despite the fact that the financial situation in the police is bad, as we have also discussed on the committee, interventions on perceived domestic violence will always be one of the police's priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you. Madam Ambassador would like to have a word with you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I think it is precisely an additional response from the Minister that it is right to hold a broader debate on this. On the other hand, look, I'm actually talking about what financial distress means on the other hand, pressing your teeth in front of the punches. I'm not talking about a specific case, there are more concrete cases, I'm talking about getting a fine usually for both persons involved, and that's the problem. I therefore propose that we hold a broader debate on this, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Until then, I'm calling on the National Assembly to put the pin in the drawers, because that's a systemic problem. We need to settle this so that no one in this country will be afraid to call the police to help. That's what I'm talking about. I ask for support so that we can have a good debate, a quality debate, and perhaps come together to concrete solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. Mr Marko Ferruga now has the floor to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the representatives of the government! My question relates directly to Palestine, but it is that we are 28. 11. In 2014, the Foreign Policy Committee decided that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should keep us informed and regularly monitor all developments relating to the question of Palestinian status. That is why I would like to refer the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would like his comment on what is happening in the UN Security Council, which is what this is all about. Foreign ministers of the Arab League Member States also at the end of November supported the draft Security Council resolution on Palestine and launched an initiative for the immediate recognition of Palestine as full-fledged members of the UN. That is why I am interested in the fact that this draft was again referred to by Western diplomats as unbalanced. This is supposed to be a group of European countries, composed of France, Great Britain, Germany, and the latter are supposed to start with preparations for a new one, it is said to be a more balanced proposal on Palestine, which would contain a two-year timeline to determine the final status, and should be determined by reviving multilateral Middle East peace processes and talks. The main Palestinian negotiator in the UN, Mr Erekat, said last week that Palestine expects a strong UN Security Council resolution before the end of 2014, otherwise Palestine will take the necessary steps with regard to membership in the International Criminal Court. In this regard, I am interested in the comment on this situation in the Security Council. Besides, I'm wondering: Are the efforts of France, the United Kingdom and Germany coordinated at European Union level? If the answer to the following question is yes, I am further interested: What role does the Republic of Slovenia play or intend to play in this process? So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Anti-flooding measures have been taking place on the Savinja River for many years. These measures are carried out in such a way on the whole of the river from source to outflow, but the fact that these measures are implemented slowly or too slowly, as many sections have already been regulated and obtained basic spatial documentation, is to say, with regard to accommodation in space, and also technical implementation documentation for implementation already produced. Of course, it all begins and ends with money that we know is lacking for the remediation of flood measures. Thus, in this segment, I would point out all the documentation already produced at the section of Latkova village-Letus, which is waiting for this, I would say, even only an anti-flood recovery. In parallel, at the section of the Lower Savinja Valley such as the Upper Savinja Valley, I would say that with the accelerated pace of reconstruction of the existing regional road. This is largely reconstructed, only a few reconstructions or implementation sections are missing in the Upper Savini Valley itself. One such example is in the Lights themselves. There is also an operational construction of flood control measures on the Savani River itself at this point in Light. At the same time, very large activities are being carried out at this very moment in the reconstruction of the regional road itself, that is to say, by obtaining the spatial part of the installation of the Luča Oblast itself with a connection then, of course, to the regional road mentioned. I'm asking you: Are these measures, which are now being implemented in the Upper Savina Valley in the Lights themselves, in line with the Slovenian Directorate for Roads with the reconstruction procedures of the regional road or the Luča bypass itself?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you. Madam Minister for Environment and Space, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member Ljubo Žnidar, thank you for the question. In Savinja, it is true that counter-flooding measures are carried out at several locations. If I focus on the Luč area, flood measures have been confirmed and part of the adopted State Spatial Plan for the regulation of the Radmirje-Luče regional road. Therefore, the planning and implementation of these interventions in this part of the Savinja basin was planned taking into account the profession and the general public. The Republic of Slovenia is implementing measures to ensure flood security under the Cohesion Project 2007-2013 and these measures are in the final phase of the Luč area. Somehow they are expected to be implemented and completed by the end of this year. The flood action plan also includes the rehabilitation of the left bank in the village of Struga, which is, of course, a deadline for implementation by the middle of next year. It is true, however, that a hydrological-hydraulic study has to be carried out for the entire basin of Savinja, which has not yet been developed, and the profession will then confirm the eligibility or adequacy of the procedures carried out in Savinja. If I now focus on the Lights, somehow I imagine that for this part of the flood, at least in my humble opinion, there should be no problem, I am sure that experts with the acceptance of the DPN have set things right. However, a hydrological-hydraulic study may contribute to changes or some new findings below and then in these parts of the Savinja river stream management, financial resources will have to be provided in the implementation of the 2014-2020 operational programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar wishes to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u165	Yes, Your Honor, thank you very much. I must say, however, that I have somehow been encouraged by the initiative from the local environment itself, because they are not the most excited about the approach and the construction of these anti-floating measures. I would expect myself to be a professional institution, such as Arso, which we know usually takes a lot more time than their legal deadline for consenting to other interventions – in this case also the planning of the road – to say that the issue is harmonised and that there are no more open questions. But in this case, it's the opposite here. Personally, I am surprised that all over Slovenia, we are looking forward to some anti-flooding measures starting to build up, that funds are earmarked and so on, and, on the other hand, these cases surprise me, where something is being done, where something is being tried and then there is dissatisfaction. It does not seem good to me that, in fact, there are also such resources that should work hand in hand, that they are not harmonised among themselves and that, in the end, there is some economic damage. This is not good for the country, we are not acting on the principle of a good master, and in the future we do not all want to do the same. I want these approaches to be professional and to have the ministries in line with each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you. Madam Minister, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you. I agree with you that with the parts to which we regulate either watercourses or infrastructure, it is necessary to act as a good host and to be inter-resortically coordinated. But I admit that I can't understand these statements of yours in a way that makes it clear to me who isn't satisfied. In fact, in my work, I often encounter myself because of work in the environment, that there is rarely any satisfaction on both sides. In your statements, I do not understand whether they have comments because the VAT is one, talking about the regulation of the regional road Radmirje-Luce and the regulation of the watercourse; therefore, whether it is not satisfied, I do not know, the Directorate for Roads or are not satisfied with the country. I agree, however, that in the area that I am covering, everyone is never satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr Matthew T. Vatovec will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mrs Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u169	Thank you, Madam President! Representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly defines the importance of human rights, irrespective of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, material situation, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal situation. And since Slovenia should be a legal and social state, as Article 2 of the Constitution commands, the Government should do everything in its power to eliminate social and social exclusion and to ensure that all citizens are effectively equal. The government has, I quote, committed itself in a coalition agreement "to fully respect diversity and to allow equal opportunities for all vulnerable groups and to eliminate systemic discrimination between same-sex partners and same-sex people". Despite these commitments, the promised solutions are not yet available, and in Slovenia we are still witnessing unconstitutional equality before the law and systematic discrimination, which is allowed by distinction between diversified and same-sex couples. In the legal order, the right to health insurance by partner, the right to absence from work due to illness of the partner or partner, the right to compensation for income for the care of the family member, the right to conclude a contract of employment and so on are openly and clearly denied to the same sex partners. Thus, this part of the population cannot enjoy full legal, social and economic rights, thereby violating the constitutional right to equality before the law. Even though the position of the Government is very cautious, it is expected to provide absolute support for the protection of the rights of modern partnerships and families and the elimination of all forms of discrimination. I therefore ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs: Why has the government not yet eliminated systemic inequalities and discrimination in the field of same-sex partnerships and families? Does the Government already have a timetable to eliminate all systemic inequalities and discrimination in the area of same-sex partnerships and families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you for the question, Dr. Vatovec. I'm happy to ask you these questions. Dear Vice-Presidents and Members of Parliament! As you probably know, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, for the second time, also in the mandate of Alenka Bratušek, has put into public debate the law on the partnership community, whose main objective is to eliminate the found unconstitutionality, as regards the situation of comparison between spouses and extramaritals and between the partner community and the non-conclusion partner community. In the previous mandate, the law was in public debate because there is a resolution on normative work, where at least a 30-day public hearing is envisaged. We are trying, if only possible, to respect this resolution. As in the previous year, this law was in a one - month public debate. 12. In these days, however, the Interdepartmental Treatment will also be concluded. After a public hearing, the laws go inter-resort and then to the government. I therefore believe that in January the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will adopt a law on the partnership community, which will actually equalize the position of the same-sex partners – the partners who will enter into a partnership with the spouses, and those two who will decide not to enter into a partnership and it will be a longer-term living community and there will be no reason for them not to enter into a partnership but will be equal to the non-legislative community. Therefore, the relationship between partners will in fact be levelled according to the proposal of the law. I believe we will not have a problem in the National Assembly with the adoption of such a dictatorship. It is also a matter of regulating the situation in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. We have two decisions of the Constitutional Court, 2009 and 2013. In doing so, those rights that you have stated will actually have partners with each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Vatovec requires a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you. When you mentioned the ZPS, I have some concerns right next to this marriage. The first is purely technical, the Law on the Partnership Community refers in eleven points to the reader’s reading of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. It says: Why not systematically solve the problem, but by partial law? On the other hand, this law, the Law on the Partnership Community, introduces another practice, says it does not solve the complicated legal order as such, but only mitigates certain negative consequences of violations of these human rights, for example by symbolically not equalising marriages and at the same time does not allow for any other rights arising from the marriage. In addition, the Government has promised to resolve systematically on the basis of a finding by the Constitutional Court, a systematic elimination of discrimination, is said to be by a roof law, not by a special partial law. As you may or may not know, today the United Left has tabled a amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which literally changes only one article of the law, in which the marriage is defined as a community of two. I think that this is a very elegant and purely technical solution to this constitutional mystery and also to the question of human rights as such. It is said to be an equation regardless of personal circumstances or sexual preferences. International legal practices also show that there is a trend in Europe to deal with these things in this way is said to be systematic, with a law that actually allows for full equality between the two forms of marriage. My question is: Will the Government support the United Left proposal? If not: Where is there a reason for the distinction between these two relationships? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u174	Thank you. Madam Minister, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u175	Dr. Vatovec, I personally agree with you. The family code, which was 25. 3. In 2012 he was rejected at the referendum, in his original version he had such a dictatorship, because you also took the dictatorship and then from the Law on the Partnership Community, which is currently in public debate, you summarised the transitional provisions in the law tabled today. The fact is that there was then no will in the National Assembly and a compromise solution has been proposed, which is in fact the same as in today's Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which allows the adoption of same-sex partners when it comes to a biological child partner. This was also a compromise solution to the family code. Unfortunately, the family code was rejected by 55% of voters that day, and we must be aware that it is always a matter of seeking political compromise and a sufficient will to conclude the proposed definition. With regard to the Government's position, the Government will discuss your proposal for a law and I believe that we will also define ourselves to it within the time limit envisaged. Otherwise, the partnership law needs to be corrected, it regulates the relationship between the partners and there will be no more differences as to the relationship between the partners, as you mentioned – the right to a hospital. All these rights will be settled and levelled. As for the relationship between third parties and children, this will be regulated by the Family Law. I will have the next question of a fellow Member on this subject, and I will also say a little more about it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you. Dr. Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thanks for the answer. I also hope that these views of the government will be positive. Let me just mention that those 55% were based on 15% of the electoral beneficiaries. In view of the nature of this issue and of this subject, I propose that the debate on this subject be held in spite of everything at the next meeting, so that I put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 December in the framework of the votes. Now she has the word "ma'am mag." Tanya Zink. She will also ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities for Mrs Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! If I continue the subject, however, it is slightly different from Vatovac's colleague. In fact, it will soon be three years from when the family code fell at the referendum, although in my personal opinion it was very good and would have saved a number of professional hardships, and in particular would have benefited children and families. However, we know that citizens and citizens have made a different decision and have not supported the law because it would allow the right to adopt children also to same-sex communities. If I am well aware, then the possibility was also mentioned that issues of same-sex couples in the area of family policy could be settled in a separate law. In view of the benefits that the law would otherwise bring, I ask: Is it possible at the Ministry to consider that it would be reasonable, however, to exclude the provisions that have proved to be unacceptable so far and to wait in this part for the consensus of the opposing parties and to begin the procedure for the adoption of that law? For I believe that marriage is good in many ways and must be accepted as soon as possible. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u180	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you for asking. Mrs Tanja Cink, however, perhaps because we have answered something before, she would recall that 30% of the people participated in the family referendum, of which 45% voted in favour of the family code and 55% of the voters. Perhaps I would warn, though, because it is important that the family code fell to the referendum mostly because people believed that the family code allowed adoption. But I told my colleague earlier that the family code did not allow for any different adoptions than they were now. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations then made it clear, according to the decisions of the courts in the instance, that same-sex orientation cannot be a reason for the inability to adopt. In fact, we simply wrote down what is being done today in the family code. This means that it is possible for the same-sex partner to adopt his partner's biological child. It should be stressed that adoptions are always a matter of child interest and are always considered professionally by the same procedure to determine whether this family is the best cell for the development of the child. These guards were, at the time we had a two-year discussion about it, but most people believed that the family code allowed it, so the family code fell at the referendum. Today we have such adoptions 12 in this country. So, he didn't do anything new, and today it's already an existing practice. Because these are sensitive relationships, sensitive issues mainly ideologically, my position is always that human rights – otherwise I do not know how much room for ideology in these matters, because there is room enough for expertise. The Family Code and Solutions, as we recall, were supported by the Chamber of Clinical Psychologists, the Department of Social Pedagogy, the Department of Psychology of the Faculty of Education in Ljubljana and the Society of Psychologists – but no matter. The decision of the people at the referendum, 30% of them participating, was as it was. Because we have talked a lot about this between the political parties, who form a coalition, what kind of solution would be needed, in a sense possible. I am aware, on the one hand, that it is necessary to regulate the situation of same-sex partnerships in the light of the Constitutional Court decision and the principle that we are a legal and social country, as the colleague said. On the other hand, we urgently need to amend the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in terms of measures to protect the benefit of children. Because this is necessary and because such an agreement was in the coalition with Alenka Bratušek and now with our coalition, we have decided together, under numerous arrangements, to go into two separate marriages. The second year is in the plan, a normative plan for the work of the government, for the Family Act. We will not call the law a family code, we have decided that it will be renamed, that working groups will be formed, and of course it will be made on the basis of a family code. However, family law is changing rapidly and it is therefore necessary to check whether any decision that was made at the time can now be formulated differently, better, and in particular the focus on protecting children and also these measures from fostering, adoption, guardianship – i.e. these fundamental measures to protect the benefit of the child. In the context of the Family Law, there will also be a debate on how to regulate the area of adoption and on how to do so, and I believe that we will talk next year, and we will find a solution for which we can also get a majority in the National Assembly. There is no place for my personal opinion here, but I would like, of course, to see and act as a society without prejudice for the benefit of these children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Minister for Finance Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! In the world and even in Slovenia, tax administrations exchange information most often on the basis of an agreement to avoid double taxation, after all in these agreements, which are in some ways quite uniform. The OECD method or the OECD Agreement shall be taken into account, normally Article 25 also states that the Parties exchange information on tax matters. If we are talking about double taxation agreements, today, especially in the OECD and at the OECD in general, the view is adopted that these agreements do not actually make it possible for two countries to avoid double taxation, but that these agreements, which are around 3,000 in the world, actually mean that profits or that income are double non-taxable. It is said in the country that pays the profits and in the recipient country of that profit. This is a broader issue and, ultimately, the OECD is also preparing a change to these agreements mainly because today it is easy to send profits from Slovenian society, for example, to an island, and even if Slovenia does not have an agreement with this island, you will choose about one of the 80 countries with which Slovenia has adopted this agreement. Normally, very often, the Netherlands has used dividends and you will pay this profit through the Netherlands, and then this profit in a third country with which the Netherlands has this agreement will simply not be taxed. In view of the fact that, in Article 25, a Chapter or this Article also deals with the exchange of information, I am interested in: How many requests has the Ministry of Finance made, since the Ministry of Finance is in charge of implementing this Agreement, and how much information has it received for individual taxpayers from how many different countries? I want to know: How is the actual Ministry of Finance acting on this basis? Of course, through the Tax Administration, we know that profits are paid over, if you like, tax havens or through countries that have a more favourable tax climate or tax regulations. What are the effects of this information that the Tax Administration or the Ministry actually received on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you so much for asking. If so started by exchanging information with the competent authorities of the countries with which an international information exchange mechanism is established, the tax authority shall exchange information in three ways: one is requested, one is spontaneous and automatic. This is a logical, automatic exchange of information based on a series of agreements that you have already mentioned or a model of the convention. For example, here will be important changes in this automatic exchange in 2015, when automatic exchange of information is launched for employment income, life insurance and real estate products and their resulting income, and in October 2014 I also signed the Agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts and the first exchange will be 2017. Then there is a spontaneous exchange of information, where information is transmitted to another country, which is estimated to come to that country. This other country provides feedback on the usefulness of the transmission of information, so that we know whether it has been useful what we have provided or not. Regarding your question; FURS exchanges data with EU countries on the basis of directives and on the basis of an agreement to avoid double taxation. Generally, both bases are in the application and are considered to be one event together, so it is impossible here to completely separate the data, when the exchange was based on agreements and when on the basis of the directive, but I can give you common data. Under the agreement on the avoidance of double taxation and directives in the case of the EU, countries are, for example, one and a half years from 1. 1. 2013 to 30. 6. 2014 The Financial Administration sent 281 requests for information exchange and received 62 requests alone. At the same time, during the same period, the Financial Administration spontaneously received and sent 58 information for tax purposes. In 2013 and in the first half of 2014, Slovenia was automatic, which is now these automatic ones, sending 30 000 63 information on the incomes of residents of other countries in Slovenia and receiving 9 000 628 information. Since we exchange information not only on the basis of double taxation agreements, but also on the basis of VAT and direct taxes directives and on the basis of a multilateral convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters and exchange agreements, then we have on these grounds – for example, on the basis of the interest directive, the Financial Administration sent 16 thousand 911 information automatically in 2013 and in the first half of 2014 and also received 34 thousand 3 information. Thus, at the same time, she automatically or spontaneously sent 5 thousand 145 VAT-related information at the same time. All this information, of course, is also the basis for taxation and this data, and how much of the euro has been taxed on the basis of this information, we currently do not have, but we can provide it in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mag. Spread out, please, supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u187	Yes, thank you very much. I'd like to add my question here to the Minister. If I may, of course, focus on the exchange of information on the basis of double taxation agreements or, if you wish, on the basis of other rules, but information relating to so-called direct taxes. I would not like to mix value added tax here, because we know that automatic exchange is taking place between all European countries, because this tax is also harmonised more or less in the European Union, but that information which refers only to individual countries to legal or natural persons, particularly those relating to income taxes in the broadest sense. If we take the OECD methodology, which includes both corporate income tax and income tax. That's what they say, natural persons are paid for. Can the minister say : How much is that, and what are the effects? In this respect, I know that this is about tax secrecy, I don't mean any particular ones here, but I would certainly focus on those countries that are more tax-friendly – let's say so, because in my previous question, of course, we have talked about this. Today, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom are more tax-friendly in terms of these revenues and the Netherlands in terms of dividend payments, probably Cyprus and so on. [[…]] In short, if we could focus on these issues. Now, if that's not possible today, then I'd like a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Minister Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u189	As I said, with regard to this information on the income of residents of other countries in Slovenia, we are more interested, of course, in the incomes of residents of Slovenia outside Slovenia. Here I said that this is 9 000 628 based on automatic – but accurate data on what you wanted for direct taxes and that from tax-friendly countries, we will provide you in writing. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Ms Ljudmila Novak will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanislavi Setnikar Cankar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u191	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Increasingly, there are rumours that at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport you are preparing a proposal for amendments to the way private music schools co-finance which operate under a generally applicable programme to reduce budget co-financing for these private music schools from 85 % to 50. Only salaries, the remaining salary and all other costs, such as maintenance, running costs, the acquisition of notional material and instruments, shall be partially co-financed by the Ministry. For this reason, tuition is already over 100 % higher than tuition in public music schools. Those employed at these music schools and the parents of the children they attend are concerned about these predictions, as they threaten their existence. I wonder why we would want to save 600 000 euros on cheaper private schools for the country and possibly destroy them. This is about a thousand and 500 children, and parents would no longer be able to cover tuition costs with such a large reduction in state funding. That's why I'm asking you: Does it hold information that the Government wants to save EUR 600,000 only in private music schools and reduce their co-financing rate from 85% to 50%, or are you preparing changes in funding for public music schools as well?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dr. Stanislava Setnikar Cankar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Mrs Novakova, Members and Members of Parliament! I believe that this issue arose on the basis of information based on the search for savings options. You know that the last month has actually run in the search for savings that would affect both the university and the university areas of education. We have met with representatives of the music schools, both public and private, and have found that some of the measures, including this reduction in the percentage of funding, are questionable in this regard in order to overly intervene on the access of children who have so far attended music schools. That is why the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport finally proposed 10. 12. Ministry of Finance measures which also affect the field of music education, but in a different way. The proposed measure in the 2015 budget, which is linked to music schools, provides for a restriction on entry places financed from public funds in private music schools. The implementation of the measure will require an amendment to Article 21 of the Music Schools Act. I will read this article, which sets out the number of places of entry: "The music school aligns the number of places of entry with staffing and spatial capacity, giving priority to enrolment for more talented students and to learning orchestral instruments and singing. In order to expand the activities, the music school must obtain prior consent." The State will therefore restrict private music school funding by means of a measure to finance a limited number of schools. This restriction on public music schools, as set out in Article 21 of the Act, is already in force. And there are no changes in the financing of public music schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u195	There is already not much choice in the field of public or private education in Slovenia. It is right that we also have a well-trained public education in the field of music education. We know that music education also helps to develop the intellectual skills of children, fills the free time, if we say so, and, finally, we can also boast with many important musicians who also play in international orchestras, and this can all be proud of us. Of course, we also need to have a choice, which private music schools certainly allow, either that they are closer or that they are part of another school where children are going. For this reason, I believe that they must have this choice. Last but not least, why would the state restrict admission to these private music schools to an excessive extent if these private music schools are cheaper for the country. If a private music school has to take care of its own material costs and only 85% of its salaries are provided by the state, then it should be in our public interest that we actually have a greater offer of private music schools, because such education is also cheaper on this account. Just to compare one data; for example, in Slovenia there are 2 000 addicts who are on methadone, this cost the country 2 000 euros per person per year – this is what I got from some study. Therefore, I think that prevention is certainly better and music education is certainly the one that can only be for the good of the child. I'm asking you: What is your attitude towards private education, and why hit private education so much when we know, on the other hand, that we give 45 million money for public education and 2.2 million money for private education?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, will you answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u197	It is true, Member, that music education is very widespread. The data show that in the school year 2014/2015 there are 54 public music schools in the Republic of Slovenia, 16 with branches, 99 with distributed units and 13 private music schools. I asked them to show me the network of these schools, and I got information that there was actually no environment where, let's say, there was just one or the other, there was always a public and private music school that was so widespread. So, there are 67 music schools in Slovenia, with 25 000 571 students enrolled, and this is about 16% of the primary population. What we did in the end, believe me, with great consideration, is that we have only levelled the conditions already applicable to public music schools that receive the approval of additional entry places, only if they meet material and staffing conditions. This provision has so far strictly applied only to public music schools, and we also extend it to private schools. So, for all those who meet material and human resources conditions, there will be interest, I see no reason not to be able to obtain this co-financing. However, I must admit – this is the data provided to us by the Ministry of Finance – music education, public and private, requires 44 million per year. That's quite a body, and that's why we needed this intervention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u199	I also propose or require further discussion on this subject, public and private education. Once again, it does not seem rational to me that the state does not allow for greater development of private education, which is ultimately cheaper for the country than public education, of course, while commending our public education also in the field of music, and at the same time that parents and children have a greater choice. Only 5% of all money is for private schools, everything else is for public education, so I see no reason why we should limit admission here, because after all, it is for children and it is for employees who are Slovenian citizens, and it is not important whether they are in private or in public school, that the school is of quality and that the country fulfils its task. I therefore propose that we hold a special debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ludmila Novak. The National Assembly will decide on your proposal tomorrow, 16 December 2014. Mag. Anže Logar will question the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u201	Thank you, Chairman! I have raised a question to the Minister of Finance regarding his public financial plans to ensure the sustainability of public finances. Given the fragility and poor negotiation of the government in negotiations with the public sector, it has become clear to every citizen that the Slovenian government will again resort to the simplest recipe, instead of making bold claims about the sustainable financing of public cash registers, by means of the least resistance method, to turn the costs and burden of the crisis back on those who pay – that is, to citizens and citizens and of course the economy. So I addressed to the Minister the question: What taxes does the Minister intend to introduce in the coming year 2015 or at what tax rates will he propose an increase in individual tax rates? Remember, at the beginning of the negotiations, when the initial recovery of the public sector negotiations was geared towards a savings of 130 million euros, the Minister of Finance was very determined. He said that if the unions didn't negotiate, there was a chance that there would be a linear reduction in wages, I think, at 7%. However, soon after the unions first married, the government removed their backs and literally accepted the ultimatum of trade unions. She got scared of the first threat with a warning phrase. However, the Minister or Prime Minister of the Government came to the press saying that in this case the economy would also have to bear its share of the crisis. In view of the bargaining proceeds, it is obvious that government negotiators have reached around €100 million in a large budget gap, so I ask the Minister of Finance: What measures, apparently on the revenue side, is it intended to balance the government deficit or meet its macroeconomic forecasts next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusham Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u203	Thank you for asking. In part, the President of the Government replied to the question because it was similar at least in certain parts. Perhaps I would like to provide an explanation first of all on this negotiation with the public sector unions. Our aim was to reach an agreement on measures to reduce the mass of public sector labour costs. It was crucial that if the Government had not taken action and agreed nothing in the process of negotiations with the trade union party, the measures in force in the area of salaries and other labour costs in 2014 with 1. 1. 2015 expired. If it were no longer in force, there would be an increase of about €313 million in wages. The government's objective, as well as the initial starting points adopted by the Government to negotiate with the unions, was to first extend the existing measures of EUR 313 million, representing approximately 7 % of the total labour costs and to agree on additional measures of EUR 3 % or around EUR 127 million, as was the case with the 2015 budget adopted in 2013. That said, we had a total target of about €440 million. The final impact, as you have already mentioned, all this extension of measures and additional measures now amounts to around €350 million, which is for the whole public sector, and this is indeed about 100 million less than the government's original starting points, but the financial target is around 80%. These financial impacts are estimated for the whole public sector, as I said, while for the state budget sector itself, it accounts for around 60%. It is important to know that of these 100 million, a significant part of it falls away from the health sector, which is closed, which has as much revenue as expenditure. It also refers to municipalities that also have a closed balance sheet, which is said to be about as much revenue as expenditure. It is said that what remains for the state budget and what goes on in the ESA 2010, the deficit, targeted at 2.8%, is a significantly lower sum, about some more than 30 million euros. Therefore, I cannot agree with the statement that the negotiations were unsuccessful. It should also be borne in mind that negotiations have been complex and difficult, especially since they have been repeated since 2009, always with the same promise that wage action is only necessary once more. So that's how many years of negotiation have unions behind them. On 23 October, we adopted a set of measures to achieve these objectives, which is 2.8% of the ESF deficit, and in all these measures are already all measures concerning income. The revenue is expected to be around 100 million and less than 600 million. And all of these 100 million are both an extension in essence of existing taxes and in fact an increase in the rate of certain replacement taxes for those we do not intend to extend. Improvement on the tax collection side and such as CO2 tax, some additional taxes. That's all 100 million dollars. From what the Government adopted on 23 October and sent to the European Commission, we will not give up any additional revenue or taxes, as you say. We just don't plan. Right now, we are preparing an indicative expenditure cut for the preparation of the 2015 budget rebalancing, which is expected to be prepared on Wednesday. As far as the systemic solution is possible in all areas, if the target of 2.8% is exceeded, we will focus on where and how to reduce expenditure. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mag. Ange Logar, supplemental. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you, President, for your word. The Minister listed what we've always listened to by government negotiators, so nothing new, nothing substantive. He said that if the government did not act, at the end of the year, or at the beginning of the new year, there would be spending public finances, but the government did not negotiate this, given that this was a package that had already been negotiated. The outgoing Prime Minister of the Government had already agreed on such a package of trade union measures, as agreed by this government, and this was not a success, since the main heart of the problem or the main work was done in 2012 by the government of Mr Janez Janša, who prepared this complex and complex set of measures to reduce public spending within 61 days. At that time, many who now praise the extension of these measures were threatening the social state with their payphones. Nor was the Minister absolutely nothing concrete about the announced measures to fill this gap, namely: Which taxes will he raise, which new taxes will he impose? That is why I would like to complement the response in this regard, especially in view of what the Coalition Treaty says, and in particular the words of the Minister at the hearing, where he spoke as steeply as at the beginning of the negotiating process, that the Government would have to cut or significantly cut into public financial expenditure at the level of [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u207	Thank you very much. According to my data, it was negotiated – then those negotiations ended because of, as we know, our political crisis – plus 78 million euros were negotiated. In these negotiations, however, there was a minus €35 million. It is very important, once again, what I also said in my statement before the committee to reduce spending by 600 million euros. That's what we're saying. We have a substantial reduction in expenditure. However, what is crucial at this time is that relatively fragile economic growth and the acceleration of economic activity must be extremely careful, in what way public consumption is in fact regulated, as public consumption can mainly be influenced by people's expectations, their consumption of expectations, their expectations of future employment opportunities, their consumption and thus the growth of gross domestic product and employment. So all of these measures needed to have an extraordinary measure of patience, to disperse measures. We know that there are 57 measures in these measures in very different areas, and we have tried with such a dispersion that relatively little pains, the most addressed ones, I would say, totally clear infunctionality or reckless use of public money in order to maintain good consumer expectations and expectations about future economic and employment developments. This is all weighted, and as we can see, the current impact of all of this on the growth of gross domestic product is quite favourable. The economy is growing relatively well, and for the next year we have positive economic growth, unemployment is decreasing and employment is increasing. So this is where it's supposed to be the right thing to do. But we know what happened at the ZUJF. With the ZUJF, the gross domestic product fell by more than 2% due to the very rapid impact and fear of people regarding forgiveness. It is said that it is important to be very careful about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mag. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Chairman. It is this additional response that prevents me from going into a very important debate, which will mark at least the beginning of 2015. Minister Marble, when he taught me about business finances at the Faculty of Economics, was very specific about business finances and today he was very inconclusive about public finances. He mentioned that we are reducing expenditure by 600 million euros. After the wildest thoughts on the measures the government has presented in the negotiations with the unions last month, I do not come up with such a number. Moreover, we receive on the table, day after day, new proposals for tax increases, not for measures on the expenditure side. Earlier, the only concrete tax forecast was announced by the Prime Minister of the Government when he said they would tax the property more. The Minister of Finance, who is the custodian of the public cash register, has not made any specific proposal indicating which taxes will be introduced. Previously, the president of the government once again gave a very interesting syntagma. He said that all measures would be carefully selected so as not to lead to a deterioration of the economic situation. And we're back there when the government is turning its position 180 degrees. Initially, at the time of the launch of the mandate and at the time of the signing of the coalition contract, there was a talk on how competitiveness is the objective for which the government will take the lead, and that it will not raise taxes just to promote competitiveness, because without improving competitiveness in Slovenia there will be no progress. Minister Marble put this particular emphasis at the hearing. So today it is syntagma that we will take such measures so that they do not make the economic situation worse, so that they will preserve the situation as it is now. You weren't elected to do that! And then the only concrete information not given by the Minister of Finance, but by the President of the Government when he said that six weeks of public deficits or these savings were on the spending side. Yeah, but that's what you meant when you were planning on saving $130 million. Now that you have 30 million, you'll probably fill this 100-million-dollar hole somewhere else. So once again, I want a public debate on this important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mag. Logar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, December 16th. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! This time, my focus will be on environment and space. I would like to ask Minister Majcen a question, given the fact that the competent committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly themselves held a number of discussions in 2014 on the issue of drawing on European funds in the financial perspective 2007-2013, i.e. old financial perspectives, and a large part of the discussions concerned in particular the implementation or non-implementation of environmental projects and the consequent drawdown or non-restriction of European funds under the Operational Programme for the Development of Environment and Transport Infrastructure for the period 2007-2013, an open question remains: What is the actual situation in the implementation and subsequent absorption of European funds in the field of environmental projects? On the basis of the discussions held, the National Assembly adopted several recommendations to improve the use of these funds, in particular in terms of reducing the risk of losing these European funds in the old financial perspective. As a result, I consider this to be relevant or very important information on the actual state of play of these funds in environmental projects carried out under the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for that period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u213	President, honourable Member Uroš Prikl! Under the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure for the period 2007-2013, the Ministry of Environment and Space shall carry out the tasks of the Mediation Body for the prioritisation of the management of municipal waste, waste water disposal and treatment and the provision of drinking water to the population where the beneficiaries of the municipality are. In the priority direction, the reduction of the adverse impact of water, i.e. on the implementation of flood safety, is the Ministry of Justice as a beneficiary. For environmental projects, approximately €548.5 million from the Cohesion Fund is available under this operational programme. The managing authority – today, of course, we are here with the Minister – has issued 50 decisions on the allocation of European funds to environmental projects under the above-mentioned priority guidelines. The total value of VAT projects amounts to a billion 322 million. Of this, approximately 787 million European funds are from the Cohesion Fund and 151 million are from the Republic of Slovenia. Activities – here I am talking about design for one project, in other cases it is already building – are carried out on 49 projects after 157 municipalities in Slovenia. Of these 49 projects, 11 have already been completed. At 37 construction works are carried out very intensively. On the CERO Nova Gorica project they withdrew from the project, while CERO Dolenjska is still in the design phase. It seems important to me that by the end of 2013, 180 million European funds had been paid and that up to 15 had been paid in this year. 11 already 177.5 million. It is still waiting and practically for approval, so another 20.5 million will be paid in December, which means that some 198 million euros will be paid in 2014. This means that in 2014 36 % of the total mass was or will now be paid in December. In view of what has been paid by 2013, we note that 70 % of European funds have been paid for these projects and that there are no reservations in the coming year that these projects would not have been completed and that all the funds would not have been spent, except in the event of extreme situations, which could mean any bankruptcy of operators, perhaps even the weather situation, but hopefully this will not happen. In these 157 municipalities, I would like to say that 92 municipalities are involved in municipal waste management projects, 63 municipalities are involved in waste water disposal and treatment projects, and 71 municipalities are involved in drinking water supply projects, so that the water fund for the water supply, namely that part of the water supply that is part of the transport pipeline, is also provided for what would otherwise be the participation of the municipalities, with 5.5 million funds being paid in 2013 and 2014. So together we have concerns at our ministry of 318 contracts, but if there is an interest, then I can list the 11 projects that have already been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Urosh Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u215	Thank you very much for this part of the answers or explanations. I can gladly conclude here that we are going towards the goal and that virtually all the resources will be spent. Above all, I see here as a positive note that the trend in particular is rising rapidly in 2014 and that there is no fear of remaining funds unused. I am even more pleased with the fact that activities are being carried out in a very wide area of 157 municipalities, and especially, as far as I know, the distinguished Minister will correct or correct me here, if I am mistaken, even in many municipalities which are in some way deprived. Of course, I will be very pleased that the Minister has run out of time, and I am in a hurry to gain some time here, for those 11 projects, which have also in the past been a lot of talk and fear that the matter will not be realized. And just as I speak, I have some time left: I will be satisfied with the written answer and will not use the business opportunity to discuss it in the National Assembly. Dear Minister, thank you very much for all the answers and explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, will you supplement something? [[No, no, ……]] Okay, thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will raise the question to the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smercol.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u217	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! I'm going to ask you a question about drawing on cohesion funds. The drawback of cohesion funds from the new financial perspective, which began in 2014, will be possible once the operational programme is approved by the European Union, a partnership agreement is signed, as soon as the investors of the projects prepared are given decisions and, of course, when the co-financing agreement is signed by the Ministry. We have 11 cohesion projects in the field of environmental protection, where the Government has decided that they will be considered as a priority for drawing from the new financial perspective. In fact, these projects were prepared as overcommitment 2 for drawing from the old financial perspective 2007-2013, but the implementation of these projects ran out of money. These 11 projects cover 34 Slovene municipalities, where almost a third of the population lives. These municipalities have already spent more than €7 million on the preparation of these 11 projects, and they also have selected contractors. That's why I want to know: When will investors be able to obtain Ministry decisions so that they can start implementing these 11 cohesion projects? I'm also curious: Given that these projects were ready for the old financial perspective, what else should investors do when they report these projects under the new rules? Since they were prepared for the old financial perspective, for the old rules, I wonder: Is there a lot of new stuff now? What else must investors do to ensure that this will not take too long to receive this decision as soon as possible and start with the parts when the construction season begins, since basically all these projects are linked mainly to time and construction season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u219	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Dear Member, Mr. Lah! I am really glad that, with your question, I also have the opportunity to share with the National Assembly some more information that we discussed on the European Affairs Committee last Friday. Before I go on a new perspective, let me start by stressing just a little bit of information for all those you may not yet have. In the old financial perspective, which is being concluded, we have €4.1 billion in three operational programmes, and in the same perspective we have signed for 4.2 billion co-financing contracts, which means we have more signed contracts than we can spend. What we will spend more goes directly to the state budget, which, of course, Minister Marble is very concerned. Payments from the state budget amounted to EUR 3.24 billion by 30 November, and it is true that the drawdown has actually improved this year. On 30 November we arrived at 78.9%, which was still very difficult to expect at the beginning of this year. In addition, we are in the traditionally very strong month of December, when we are practically expecting another 100 million Euros to draw on the old perspective. All of this can only give me optimism that even next year we will not only accelerate or maintain these levels in this existing perspective, which in fact will amount to about 30% of the full perspective this year, but we also want to add to our gas. I believe that the goal that we have set ourselves is the 100 per cent drawback of cohesion funds that is attainable. Let me conclude this first part of the figures by actually returning about 70% of the available resources to our budget by the European Union. But 2015 will definitely not be easy. The first task we have is to ensure the necessary spending rights in the 2015 budget balance. The second task is to literally keep an eye on all projects in the implementation or completion phase on a daily basis. In parallel with all this, of course, we have begun to work very intensively on the programming documents. As Mr Lah rightly said, the partnership agreement was confirmed by the European Commission, and just during this meeting of the National Assembly, we have also received a message that the European Commission has also approved an operational programme for a new financial perspective. This is the most beautiful Christmas news we've got at work with us, and I must say that I am very proud of it, because not only our work is involved, but all of our departments, and that is why I thank everyone. And the next step is the documents. The implementing documents are extremely important. We are currently finishing the regulation and believe that we will be able to present it to the resources next week. This is the basic document on which we will also build the whole system, and I hope that we can issue the first decisions before the start of the construction season. Of course, the resources will have to be, especially here. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] There is still a great deal to do with us so that we can issue these decisions because the system will be slightly different. But I believe we're working with some congregations too. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u221	I'll give you a chance to say it in the microphone. I'm very happy about the news, too. It was also felt on the committee itself after the debate, even though you are new to this position that the ministry is doing very well. However, I must say that these 11 projects have been confirmed by the intermediate body, and they say they have given things away, but not everything is so clear. Indeed, the government has given the investors a green light to the municipalities to start carrying out these projects with their own resources, and we know that this was not the best idea, and some municipalities have already gone into implementation. And if they start now with a new financial perspective on what will happen to these projects – something is likely to have to be finalized, the Ministry of the Environment is likely to reconfirm. So some complications are expected, and it would be wise to inform investors in time to prepare these projects according to the new regulations and new guidelines when this regulation and rules are being prepared so that the municipality does not need a few more months to prepare and approve these projects – namely, these projects have building permits, some of which are expected to expire in the spring of the following year – that the selected operators who pay dearly each month of the bank guarantee are also doing damage. So it would be right for the congregations to get involved as soon as possible, so that along with the intermediate body and you [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Complements of these projects, if necessary, and on applications as soon as the rules are adopted so that they can submit applications. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Minister Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. A few more words on the subject of these 11 projects. For three of these, we are faced with the fact that Jaspers demanded their judgment. These projects were translated into English at our expense and sent to JASPERS, where we received their opinion that, by mid-February at the latest, they would probably be able to issue an opinion for all three projects. These are essentially bigger projects, but for everyone else, of course. We will work in parallel to establish a system, but, believe me, this is not very easy because the logic of the new perspective is different. We have committed ourselves to trying to follow in this part – also indicators in the operational programme, which will be online by the end of this week, are already following these 11 projects. It is said that this was taken into account both in the field and in our country. Surely, however, the congregations will have to prepare new roles. And that is where we will try to provide as much information as possible, because, of course, I think that we are all in our interest, in the end, also in Europe itself, to finally put these projects under the roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u225	As it allows the Rules of Procedure to vote in the National Assembly on the debate, I think it would be appropriate to give you the opportunity to boast there too, to say specific things about the applications themselves. To achieve new goals, there is still a need for these congregations to do much. Since these are mainly projects where the main water is being built, secondary water needs to be made, including connections where water supply is concerned, where waste water is being extracted and cleaned. It's mostly about these projects. There is still much to be done by the municipalities to achieve these objectives, which they have set themselves in the projects. Therefore, it would be appropriate to clear all the conditions to be precise as soon as possible, to prepare the projects, to make sure that construction sites can be taken over before the construction season, and to start the season. We know that in 2015, more than 800 million old financial perspectives still need to be drawn up. It's not a small bite, it's gonna be a lot of work. However, if construction works were to begin soon, even a few hundred million could draw on the new financial perspective. This would be very welcome for our budget. At the same time, this also has a very favourable impact on economic growth. Since the real effect will only be when these municipalities have reached their goal, it is said when so many households are involved in this infrastructure when I look at these two basic public economic services carried out by the municipalities. It is therefore appropriate to hold a debate in Parliament to clarify the details, as these 34 municipalities are difficult to expect the start of these projects, as well as the population of about one third of Slovenia involved in these projects. And this will also be a basis for economic development, particularly in rural areas, where this infrastructure is very important and also essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, December 16th. Mrs Andreja Katič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u227	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister and distinguished minister! Dear Minister, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark! In March of this year, a new European Aid Fund was established for the most vulnerable for the period 2014-2020. Its key objective is to reduce the number of people affected or threatened by poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million by 2020, in line with the EU 2020 strategy. It is about offering non-financial assistance to the most deprived persons in the form of food and basic material assistance and other social inclusion activities. The European Commission shall approve the national programmes for the period 2014-2020 on the basis of which the national authorities then take individual decisions on aid and carry out specific measures by partner organisations. A similar approach already applies to cohesion funds. The EU countries themselves decide how the aid will then be provided. Dear Minister: What does the introduction of this Fund, the Fund for European Assistance to the Most Hazardous, mean for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? What amount of resources will the Republic of Slovenia receive in relation to the previous years when we provided food in Slovenia under an EU intervention measure, and how will these measures be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u229	Commissioner Andrej Katič, thank you for the question. Dear Vice-Presidents and Members of Parliament! As you mentioned in the question, we have moved on to a new system this year. Under the new financial perspective, the agricultural policy aid measure is no longer implemented, as was the case between 2006 and 2013, when food was distributed to Member States on the basis of intervention stocks. And, as anyone else may recall, in 2011, Germany launched a European Court of Justice procedure, and the European Court found that this measure was not in line with European legislation, so a very intensive campaign was launched, in which France and Slovenia played a leading role with the support of the Red Cross and similar organisations in Europe and Karitas, that we were able to maintain the form of food aid also in the next financial perspective. However, it has moved from agricultural policy, where food supplies were shared, to social policy. It should be said that we allocated 32 000 tonnes of food in the framework of agricultural policy between 2006 and 2013. So there were over 200,000 of these food recipients. And of course in Slovenia we have a good system of social transfers that halve the risk of poverty. You can see that even during the period of economic growth, when I am talking about the period 2006-2013, there has been no crisis between 2006 and 2008, and this food has been distributed. Unfortunately, the need for these forms is always, but of course we now have even greater needs with this crisis. It is therefore very important that we have done everything necessary this year to establish this fund with us, to adopt an operational programme to be endorsed by the European Commission and to be able to draw funds from the new financial perspective. You have previously heard from the Minister of Cohesion that the European Commission has now approved an operational programme, which is a complete one. But we had a separate one, and the Ministry of Labour provided all the necessary, i.e. the international call we had to make and the confirmation of the operational programme – all of this has actually been done, and the food is already being delivered to Red Cross and Karitas warehouses. From the new financial perspective, where we have picked up more money – in the period 2014-2020 we have 20.5 million European funds available for this, and with this 15% co-financing means another 3.6 million of our own participation. In fact, we are important together with the Red Cross and Karitas, where they share it, but on the basis of this international invitation to tender, 388 thousand kilograms of wheat flour, 455 thousand pounds of nutritious pasta, 293 thousand kilograms of milled rice and 148 thousand litres of refined sunflower oil will be brought into storage. At the same time, it must be said that in this year, when the crisis, when there was actually no more European resources available in that previous perspective, that is, stocks and at the same time the new system was not yet in operation, not to be in Slovenia, but in fact the whole of Europe is moving on to a new financial perspective and it is necessary to adopt all the necessary documents, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision in May where we first distributed food from food reserves, so that the Red Cross and Karitas get food, one shipment in July and one in August, to bridge this period, because we knew that, at the end of the year, food supplies would arrive in the new financial perspective. So we really tried because we are aware of the importance of this action for people. However, it may be necessary to provide further information that from this measure European food aid will be allocated even between 2006 and 2013 and now more resources than it was before that means two thirds of all the funds or all the food distributed to our two largest humanitarian organisations. So when we talk about humanitarianism, charity, it must be made clear that two-thirds of the food distributed comes from European resources. In some ways, then, the State ensures this division. Of course, this does not mean that other donors are not very important, but all the grains of this food, this assistance is provided by the State and the voluntary organisation of Karitas and the Red Cross share this, for which we are grateful.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počivalšku, and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. To Diane Jedhan, but he's gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Agricultural areas are important from a broader social point of view, as we increase the attractiveness of the area with the treated landscape. The cultural and orderly appearance of the landscape is also an extremely important indicator of every society. In Slovenia, the cultivation of agricultural land in remote areas reaches unwanted and, in particular, from the point of view of treatment and population of an alarming dimension. The process of cultivation of fertile land is reflected in many areas of Slovenia, let it be coastal and karst, Goriška, White landscape, and not least in the immediate vicinity of my home in the hills Haloza. Environmental protection is an extremely negative process, creating intransience, inaccessibility, reducing growth density, failing infrastructure and reducing the aesthetic value of the landscape, especially important for tourism. The causes of agricultural land cultivation are numerous and, in most cases, the main causes are the disadvantages of farming. It is very common that, when there is no more resources to support farming, the abandonment of agricultural areas and the displacement of people, especially young populations, occur. Unfortunately, development in Slovenia is also generally directed towards larger centres, larger cities, and all more remote areas in development are lagging behind. From this point of view, they are also more uninteresting for young people. The same is true of growing vineyards. And I'm gonna stop by the domestic Haloza for a while. Being a winegrower in Haloza means working extremely hard because vineyards are on very steep slopes, so much work with more modern agricultural machinery is not possible. If I say so, almost 60% of all Slovenian vineyards growing on the steepest slopes in Slovenia are in Haloza. It is important to point out that Haloses have extremely favourable climatic and geological conditions for wine growing. According to the data I found on Wikipedia, only 5% of the world’s vineyard areas should have such conditions. Can we appreciate this and take advantage of it in Slovenia? I ask the Minister of Agriculture: What are you planning to do to reduce the infestation of agricultural land and vineyards in Haloza and other areas facing similar problems? What concrete measures do you intend to take, and how do you see the further development of these areas? Dear Minister for Economic Development and Technology: How do you see the development of these areas? How do you see the development of Haloz mainly in terms of economy and tourism? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u233	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Susana Beautiful Šimenko! I have to say that this question somehow brings me back to my former profession, but anyway. Haloses are a cross-border rural area with great needs for local infrastructure and rural development programmes. In order to achieve a coherent development of all such problem areas, it is most crucial that this area remain populated. In order to stay settled, however, it is necessary to do a number of things, namely, the task of the State to take care, on the one hand, of maintaining and working infrastructure, transport, telecommunications, education, social. We've been doing this in some way over the past period, I think, even in Haloza. The question is whether we have made sufficient use of the potential of European funds in this period. On the other hand, at least as far as I am concerned, there are two matters to be taken care of in Haloza, agricultural work and economic activity. Only agricultural work will not solve the problem of moving or moving out of this area, and then, as a result, recovery, and then economic work. I estimate that before us, not just for Haloze, a very long period of time when it will be, but more will be discussed by our fellow Minister of Agriculture, it is necessary to fight for the next phase to develop, and this is the kind of and different processing industry that will allow the inhabitants in these areas to have some economic interest in their farming. It is up to us, at the Ministry of the Economy, to draw up a new European instrument for border problems in areas that will focus on the development of entrepreneurship and the creation of new jobs, which I believe that only in support of agriculture can they achieve what you have asked – that the area should stay populated and that not only people in this area, but also others, have some economic basis for life. We will make sure that we do the programmes in this direction, but, of course, parallel to the rural development programme to be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susanna Beautiful Chimenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u235	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. Nevertheless, perhaps we would like another explanation, namely, if we are going to neighbouring Austria, we have a kind of very similar landscape, and as far as tourism is concerned between vineyards, we could say that the situation there is completely different, more so florally oriented, very positive. More and more of our vineyards are growing in the forest. On the one hand we have vineyards, on the other hand we also have these hill farms Haloz. And a while ago, it was pointed out that they did one survey in 2012 with 480 hill farms in Haloza, and the results are very worrying. 80% of these farms do not have a younger generation willing to take over this farm. 80% of these farms do not see a future for the conservation of these farms, and 40% of the respondents have already left part of the agricultural area mainly because of the age and inability to process this land. The key problem they are exposing is the relief itself and the fact that most of the work actually needs to be done on hand. However, I fully agree with you that agricultural work is important on the one hand and economic work. And if there is any measure here in this direction from a new financial perspective that will focus primarily on these border areas, more critical areas, I will be extremely happy about this. Could you be more specific about: What measures, what programme will be within this? Maybe just a few indents. Will it be more in the direction of tourism or small entrepreneurship, independent entrepreneurship? Maybe a little more specific. Thanks for the update.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u237	In our ministry there will now not be so much funding for such and different infrastructure in view of the new perspective. The only thing we will have left will be the preparation of a programme to promote the development of entrepreneurship. At this point, I cannot predict precisely which direction, but I believe that for this area and for the rest of the areas, it is necessary to look for an exit in both directions – in pure entrepreneurship and also in tourism, not to look for new hot water, but we have a good example in the area you mentioned. However, it is important to note that in order to develop this tourism work we will have to do something else to not only have an internal market, but also for Haloze, so that with the promotion of Slovenia we will have a lot of people visit us in specific areas. We will definitely make an effort to develop this second, economic part of all problem areas and also Haloz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u238	Thank you very much. This was the response of Minister Zdravko Restovalska. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u239	Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The economic performance indicator in all countries is economic growth, job creation and the competitiveness of businesses. A country with a clear vision or a development strategy will not simply increase taxes that choke businesses and actually run into a grey economy to balance the state budget. A few months ago, just after the government began operating, before you, of course, became Minister, the government proposed a package of tax burdens, including a tax on sweet drinks, which you withdrew last week. The proposed package also brings benefits to carbon dioxide emission vouchers, a contribution to energy efficiency and a new increase in the contribution to renewable energy sources. This means additional burdens on at least 50 Slovenian companies, which are very export-oriented and are daily in contact with competitors from other Member States and non-members of the European Union, which significantly lower the burden on large consumers than Slovenia with taxes and contributions. Let me just remind you that, for example, Italy is even reducing these duties or paying these duties. It is therefore a matter of reducing the competitiveness of these companies, which in many cases are also in foreign ownership. The proposal for new burdens thus means the abolition of jobs in individual activities, even the existence of enterprises will be compromised. I wonder, at the same time, whether the government really wants to close down jobs in companies that employ more than 27,000 people together. Last but not least, these new duties could leave some 8 000 workers unoccupied, all in the fact that the number of employees in the economy has already decreased by 90 000 employees since 2008, while we have about 12 000 employees in the public sector according to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Businesses, which thus enable the public sector to survive, and who do not know at the end of the year what costs they should plan for next year, will thus again pay their tax, which is already already very high. The government does not have a prepared analysis on the burdens of an individual undertaking, not on the energy sector, nor on any other area. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Will you propose the withdrawal of the proposal for a selective burden on the Slovenian economy for carbon dioxide emissions and thus prevent companies from continuing to walk and move to other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u241	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Gardener! I must tell everyone once again that, as economic minister, I will strive not to burden the economy with new taxes. My motto at this function was Stop the new taxes on the economy. The second fact is that I got on a train that was already going 80 or 100 an hour and that some things had already been arranged. As you have already said, we have decided to withdraw the selective approach in the field of sweet drinks taxes. We are now in the final phase of the talks, at least as far as the existing arrangements are concerned, correction also in the area of CO2 benefits. I have to say with determination that we will strive to preserve and create new jobs, not to lock them up by our own actions. And if I say it in a graphic way, I expect we're not going to decide that we're going to kill a whole cow for one steak. In this case, 31 companies are involved. The Ministry has detailed analyses of the contributions of individual companies. Of the 30 million expected or planned, this should also be said, and the situation is equally difficult – about two-thirds fall into thermal power plants, one third, that is 10 million, and the energy intensive economy. We now have three systems – CO2 duties of 14.4 euros per tonne, then ETS debtors who have free coupons that pay extra pollution for 5 euros per tonne, and we have benefits from efficient energy consumption, where 1.5 million are expected to pay 36 companies in the period 2015-2017. We are working hard to ease this planned duty to a large extent if it has not fully withdrawn. At this point, I cannot give a definitive answer, but I can assure you that the matter will not be smaller but, in a significant way, it will be corrected in relation to energy-intensive companies or to those, I think, 31 companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerney Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u243	Dear Minister! Just because of your sentences Stop the new taxes!, you have received such strong support from our Christian Democrats in the past. I also supported you in the performances at the time. Then we were marked to be coming to that side, to you, to the government coalition. But no, let's support what's good, and throw away what's bad, and stop the new taxes! It's very good. And I want you, as Minister, to continue to defend such views and to infect the rest of the government's coalition as much as possible. Nevertheless, I would like another concrete answer. Last week, as well as now you have said – somehow you have softened this position regarding Stop New Taxes!, if we try and so on, it will not go completely. You just said that you got on this train that's driving, so I'm going to say, just 100 kilometers an hour, because they drive 300, 400 kilometers an hour on foreign trains. I wish our own vehicles could do the same, and the government would work so fast. I really want to know: Does the Government propose this additional burden on CO2 emissions in your opinion with a view to reducing emissions – says we are very environmentally friendly, even because of the crisis, as it shows – is it only a matter of charging the budget with the fact that we want to reduce the deficit below €1.2 billion in 2015? What's your position? Are you going to look at environmental matters in the future as far as taxes are concerned, otherwise very important things, but they have nothing to do with the deficit or [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u245	I have to say that I have not softened the rhetoric, but I have tried to do the best I can in the next matter. The fact is that the deficit needs to be reduced, as you said, below a billion 200 million, and that the chances are being sought for this deficit to be framed into existing figures. I am confident that we will not be burdening the economy further with new taxes. Moreover, I will make my own efforts to reduce by unit and by increasing the volume of business in several areas, if you want work burdens, excise duties, and where else, to create the same or more traffic than we have so far, while reducing the relative burdens. I know that this can now be said on a principled level, but it is also necessary to start somewhere. And we have to close next year at this billion 200 million, and there will have to be some solution to defend this part of the economic work as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will raise the question to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u247	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, dear colleague and colleague! Dear Minister, allow me to ask you the following brief question: Is the Government preparing a strategy to activate dead capital and development potential at the Nafta Lendava site, which would at least partially compensate for the loss of more than a thousand jobs? Oil Lendava is owned by the majority state. So far, management and control systems by the capital owner have been so unsuccessful and ineffective that, despite the latest state aid of €10 million, we have lost more than a thousand jobs, unfortunately the last 111 already under the custody of SDH by introducing bankruptcy proceedings over Nafta Petrochem's subsidiary. From an economic point of view, the oil business system is of strategic importance for the area of Lendava and the entire region, as it is also subject to a concession for the extraction of natural gas. The slow resolution of this problem would have an extremely negative impact on the possibility of re-eligible start-up of the entire industrial infrastructure due to the loss of technological equipment because it is out of use and the loss of critical mass of knowledge. I am convinced that only rapid action and wise solutions from the responsible owner can benefit the country, the region, the place that is struggling with very high, even more than 20, the level of registered unemployment and the marked negative demographic trends. Thank you in advance for your valuable response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u249	Thank you, Chairman. Messengers and Members! Mr. Ly! I must say that the situation is at least according to my estimates extremely difficult for the Oil Group to bring together the companies Nafta Lendava, d.o.o., Nafta Petrochem, Eco Nafta, Oil Protection and Fire Safety. This group also includes Geoenergo, which is owned by Nafte Lendava and 50 % owned by Petrol, d.d. All you've said is that I don't repeat it. According to the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Slovenian State Holding is responsible for managing capital investments in the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, including the Nafta Group. At our Ministry, we are monitoring developments in Nafta Petrochem, which are particularly related to the use of storage capacity for mandatory reserves of oil derivatives, especially with regard to industrial track issues. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia stores more than 150 million litres of mandatory stocks of oil derivatives at this location. This is about 24 million in Eko Nafte warehouses and the rest in Petrol warehouses. And here we have another problem: that access to storage is possible only through these surfaces, and we also need to solve this problem. I cannot give you a clear concrete answer in this context, in what way we will approach the problems of the jobs that have been lost there at this time. All I can say is that SDH is trying to revive the craftsmanship zone, that the bankruptcy manager is also looking for potential partners to restore economic activity. And I guarantee that at MGRT or at our ministry we will support all promising projects in terms of economics and new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary with her team! You will probably recall your hearing when you were asked several times on the Health Committee about the project to build ten emergency centres in the Republic of Slovenia. As it is said, the construction of ten emergency centres is under way in Slovenia – or I think that the construction of twelve, not just ten, should take place, and we have also received €40 million from cohesion funds from this title. Last month and a half, I was in contact with all municipalities, as well as hospital management, where the construction of emergency centres in the Republic of Slovenia is under way. I get the feeling that things aren't going as well or as they should. Most often, local authorities or hospital authorities point out that in Slovenia there are really too many bureaucratic obstacles, delays, unnecessary audits, problems with operators, and many at local level are also very concerned about the abolition of emergency medical units. To this day, unfortunately, only one emergency centre has been opened, in Brežice. For that, of course, congratulations, I am very happy, but I think there is still a lot of hard work ahead of you at the Ministry. That is why I am very specifically interested, Madam Minister: How far is the construction of the remaining nine emergency centres in the Republic of Slovenia, from Murska Sobota, Maribor, Slovenj Gradca, including Izole and Jesenic, since I have been given the feeling that we will not be able to draw on many of the European funds that we have received for the construction of emergency centres, as well as for many doctors and mayors alike, over the lack of consistency of legislation? They themselves point out that many people do not know what law the emergency centres should operate under. I would really like to hear, and probably also the Slovenian public: How is this project taking place and amending legislation in the field of operation of emergency centres? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u253	Thank you for the question, Mr Andrej Chuš. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The construction of ten emergency centres is carried out in accordance with the plan and will be completed as envisaged for the use of cohesion funds. If we look at each other at a particular emergency centre, at what stage it is. So, as you mentioned correctly, the Brežice Emergency Centre is complete, equipped, licensed and already active. Emergency centre Celje: construction works and installations have been completed and technical inspection and authorisation have been provided for today. Some of the necessary medical equipment will be available for the emergency centre. Emergency center Slovenj Gradec: all construction works and installations are also completed. A technical review was also carried out on 13 November. It is only necessary to provide equipment for which a common invitation to tender or joint purchase for equipment in these centres was also provided. The Maribor Emergency Centre: it is an adaptation of existing premises where the activity is already under way, and this project is carried out in two stages or in two parts. The first stage was already completed and a technical review was carried out on 11 November. Accommodation in adapted premises is scheduled immediately after New Year's holidays. The second stage has already begun, in which it is included, that all envisaged equipment for this centre will be delivered by the end of the summer. Murska Sobota Emergency Centre: Construction is also carried out on schedule and will be completed in March 2015. The whole project, together with the equipment delivered, is expected to be completed in the summer of 2015. Emergency centre Trbovlje: construction is under way. Installations are starting and construction works will be completed by the end of April 2015, when equipment will also be delivered. The Jesenice Emergency Centre: construction works began in September 2014 and are on schedule. The project will be completed in autumn 2015. Izola Emergency Centre: construction works began in November 2014. The project will also be completed in autumn 2015. The Novo Mesto Emergency Centre: construction began in early November 2014. Activities run according to schedule, the project will be completed in 2015. The emergency centre Nova Gorica, which we have already responded to today's question: on Friday, the project was included in the national development programme by appropriate allocation of funds. On the same day, the contract was signed by the Ministry, so we expect the construction to begin these days if it has not already happened today. The project will also be completed in autumn 2015. Therefore, it follows from the above that all ten emergency centres of projects implemented, European funds will be used in full and the project will be completed in accordance with the deadlines foreseen, this is the end of November 2015. At the same time, in the following year, we will approach, of course, if funds will be provided in the 2015 budget, including the adaptation or construction of two dispatch centres and one auxiliary centre, which will represent the completion of the entire emergency centre system in Slovenia, which will make a substantial contribution to both better, faster and better provision for insurers and to a certain amount of savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for your answer. Of course, I am pleased with this information that I read about the emergency centre in Šempetr near Novi Gorica, and I have a specific question: Do you have a closed financial structure at the Ministry, including within the Government, for the execution or construction of the emergency centre itself? Second of all, I would like to say that I am a citizen of the City Congregation of Ptuj, not only the oldest, but also in my opinion the most beautiful congregations. And you probably know that the city municipality of Ptuj was promised an emergency center in 2011. And as we're looking at numbers today, comparing where these emergency centers are, I'd like to say that the city municipality of Ptuj needs a modern emergency center as soon as possible. In the final phase, because you know when it comes to emergency medical care, they count seconds, not minutes and hours, and if we tell anyone from the municipalities of Ormož, Markovec or Gorišnica today that we will take him to Maribor, I don't know if we have any chance of saving this patient. And look at the census. The area of the Emergency Centre of Brežice covers 70 thousand inhabitants, the Emergency Centre of Jesenice 66 thousand, Nova Gorica 96 thousand, Novo mesto 114 thousand inhabitants, the Emergency Centre of Trbovlje 65 thousand, the Emergency Centre of Murska Sobota 120 thousand, and Ptuj as the centre of Lower Podravja, thus the centre of the region, covers 110 thousand inhabitants and residents. And, of course, I hope you make every effort to do so. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Within the budget for 2015 and 2016, we will acquire the necessary resources to build an emergency centre on Ptuj. [[...]] So I'm interested in: How far is the construction of the emergency center on Ptuj?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u257	Thank you for asking. Let me answer first. For all those emergency centres, these tens, financial resources are provided, otherwise they would not be able to obtain a positive opinion or a positive decision and sign contracts. With regard to Ptuj, the Ptuj Emergency Centre – no funds are currently available for this purpose. This will be taken into account in the negotiations or in the preparation of the 2015 budget rebalancing. I can agree that according to the population, Ptuj also deserves an emergency center. Maybe not in that form, maybe in a slightly different form. However, I am aware that this will require funding in the budget rebalancing because, as we know, this proposal for the Ptuj Emergency Centre has subsequently joined. And perhaps just an answer, where I did not have the Ministry of Health by the end of the year to draw up a regulation on emergency medical care in Slovenia, where working methods, rules and how emergency centres will operate in Slovenia will be defined. So that's going to be the answer to how this is going to be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Here you go, Andrei Chusch.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u259	Thank you very much for that answer. This latest data on the operation of the emergency centres is also a very important information, including the regulations, and of course I hope that they will be adopted as soon as possible. However, I have a feeling that in this public financial situation where Slovenia has been in need of something for several years now, I can say, pressure or encouragement to look for sufficient funding for the construction of emergency centres elsewhere, in particular in the City Municipality of Ptuj. I think there's enough degradation of the countryside, degradation of the Lower Podravje. At the end of this phase, we all know that the administrative units, tax offices everywhere are always being abolished, only to degrade the region, and, of course, I cannot agree with this policy at all. I therefore propose that we hold a discussion on your response at the next meeting of the National Assembly, not as a criticism, but primarily as a support for the City Municipality of Ptuj getting a modern emergency centre as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chuš, the National Assembly will vote on your proposal tomorrow, December 16th. Mrs Irena Kotnik will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanislavi Setnikar Cankar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u261	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I want to know: Are you planning a change in vocational education? Which way and when? For we see that young people do not have enough practical experience when they enter the labour market after they have completed their education, which is also a problem in the employment of young people. Lack of experience makes it difficult for them to get a job because employers want a staff that will immediately contribute to raising added value and increasing competitiveness, especially in the field of the economy, as well as education. However, it is also often apparent that some of the programmes in the curriculum have become obsolete, which also leads to a discrepancy between supply and demand in the labour market, in particular with regard to the competent equipment of young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Minister Stanislava Setnikar Cankar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u263	Dear Vice President! Your Honor, I thank you for the question. We are also experiencing problems ourselves, so we have been very actively involved in the search for appropriate solutions. Our thinking and, above all, the search for solutions went in a number of directions, with the ability of the economy on the one hand and the interest of young people in entering vocational and professional education in front of us. The introduction of a dual system that would allow young people more experience directly in the workplace and, above all, immediate employment is somewhat more difficult, as it is difficult to obtain, above all, learning places in the face of the crisis of quite exhausted small and medium-sized enterprises. Let me say that at the meeting organised by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and attended by a few hundred of its members, there was considerable support, on the one hand, for this issue to be done in the field of vocational education, and on the other hand a great deal of scepticism, that in the event that a labour relationship is regulated, that these young people become employees of employers, this in particular burdened employers, increased costs and that this might compromise their functioning. This is exactly what is being done by the countries that have achieved the best results with this dual system. According to our behaviour, this is Austria, Switzerland and, above all, Germany. That is why we are planning a meeting in December or in January at the Management Committee of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, where representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular would say whether, if the Ministry had drawn up a legal arrangement – namely, we are preparing the text of the Act on Vocational and Vocational Education – would be willing to adopt at least part of this burden. Indeed, their expectation that this would fully cover the budget has no real basis. Nevertheless, in 2015 we plan to start with some elements of the dual system, which would focus mainly on pre-qualification and re-qualification. For all secondary vocational education programmes newly deployed to secondary schools, an individual learning contract will be defined as a condition. In the event of restrictions on admission to secondary vocational education programmes, the tender will confer an advantage on candidates who have an individual learning contract. Training programmes for pre-qualifications, for do-qualifications, for completions allowing for a new title of vocational education will be carried out primarily for candidates who are in a working relationship and have an individual learning contract with the employer. We agree with the Chambers on the definition of deficient professions to be carried out using a specific model. The model was adopted by the competent expert board years ago, but has never been implemented. Finally, a considerable effort has been made to make proposals for an operational programme for the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 also relate to vocational education, so that funds are planned from the European Structural Funds to support new models of education and, in particular, to increase professional competences. There is now only one intermediate period because we expect these programmes to start in the second half of 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will raise a question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u265	Thank you for your word, chairman. What a lovely greeting to all those who are still here in the hall! There is no doubt that mountain tourism is one of the most important tourist activities in our country. However, geographical data often restrict the general accessibility of mountain tourist centres. The transport of visitors is therefore provided in some locations by means of cable infrastructure or by means of delivery cableways that bring a tourist to an area where there is an activity that creates new added value and new jobs. With regard to the provision of accessibility to mountain tourist centres by incorporating transport cableways into the public passenger transport system, an analysis of the minimum accessibility by means of delivery cableways to tourism generators and an assessment of the financial gap at the time of the introduction of public transport on selected cableways were also made. The financial assessment also represents a financial impact on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The total cost of ensuring accessibility to the eight cableway facilities included would amount to a good EUR 736 000 per year. These costs constitute the basis for determining the amount of compensation that would be eligible for supply cable operators to include them in the public passenger transport system and to ensure minimum accessibility standards. In view of the above, I am interested in: Do you support the introduction of the public transport of passengers by means of delivery cable devices, for which, as I have already said, it would also be necessary to provide approximately EUR 736 000 in the budget of the Slovenian Railway Association in the Republic of Slovenia? And if you support which direction or when do you think there will be necessary legislative changes? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u267	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, thank you for asking. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we are aware of the analysis of the multiple effects of consumption and employment resulting from the operation of delivery cable devices. The Ministry is also aware of the financial implications of the introduction of public passenger transport on delivery cables. Unfortunately, this estimated amount of EUR 736 000 for these purposes has not yet been provided in the budget. We also do not favour the Ministry of Economic Public Service for the Transport of Passengers by means of means of transport cableways, for two reasons in particular. We estimate that in this case it is not a type of transport that would justify the investment of public funds. Furthermore, we believe that the financing of such transports would be more appropriate to be provided by economic operators operating in the field of tourism and that they are inherently linked to the operation of such centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u269	Thank you very much. With effect from 1 January 2015, so-called white leaflets will be used in the public health system. With these, private doctors who are not included in the public health network, either through health homes or through concessions, will be able to send patients to the public health institution for examination and treatment. The patient will be able to refer the patient to the tertiary level in the public network if he does not provide these health services for which he is travelling. This will enable private doctors to decide on the work of public health institutions and to use compulsory health insurance and voluntary supplementary health insurance. White passports appear to remove administrative safeguards against the trans-shipment of species in the public health system, which is increasingly widespread. The biggest differences in access are in the first specialist reviews. Anyone who can afford a self-sustaining first-aid examination will be substantially sooner to complete a final diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Such an arrangement is contrary to the principle of equal access for all residents to adequate treatment. The only criteria for listing on waiting lists should be health status, and in practice it is more decisive who can afford self-payment services. On the one hand, the benefits are greater in money-buying patients, and on the other hand in private doctors, who have multiple clients and profits due to abuse of the public system. These phenomena would not occur if the public and private health systems were separated and access to health services was ensured in public health care at a reasonable time. That's why I'm asking you: How will you ensure separation between public and private health care? After all, you have written this down in a coalition agreement, and without it it is not possible to have equal access to health services. And secondly: What will you do to reduce waiting periods for first examinations and to ensure that personal doctors are able to treat patients as independently as possible instead of being just intermediaries between them and specialists? Madam Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u270	Answers Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Hanzek! Hello, Members and Members of Parliament! The White Notice, which will apply as from 1 January 2015, as the Member of Parliament correctly stated, is the result of a decision already adopted in 1998 by the Constitutional Court repealing Article 257 of the Compulsory Health Insurance Rules in the Work relating to the refusal of reimbursement of the costs of health services incurred on the basis of a travel order issued in the infirmary. The Constitutional Court has based its decision on the fact that an insured person, by choosing a personal physician outside a public network for which the service has paid the full price, cannot, despite the paid contributions of the compulsory health insurance, be penalized even if he has to pay in full the services of all other healthcare professionals he needs in his situation. Therefore, the institution, as an insurance company, is obliged in the view of the Constitutional Court to allow for the free choice of physicians and health institutions at all levels of health care, both at primary and secondary levels. Therefore, the Health Insurance Office, following the issuance of this Decision to the operators, has already explained several times that, pursuant to this Decision, an insured person who applies services to a private operator as a self-payer may be sent to a public service provider doctor and, on the basis of this referral, applies health services under the same conditions as if he were applying them on the basis of a travel authorisation. At the same time, it also explained to the operators what data were needed to deal with the insured person in the public operator. Therefore, the situation is not new, but it has not been regulated by the use of private operators in various ways of providing instructions or a guide for insured persons in the public network. For this reason, at the initiative of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia together in the Working Group of the Health Insurance Office, he prepared a model of this Charter, which is called a white guide, on which all the information required for the exercise of compulsory health insurance rights in operators at a secondary or tertiary level. With a view to equal treatment of all insured persons or the uniform conduct of operators, the Institute has also drawn up a circular on the application of health services under compulsory health insurance provided that a private operator has issued a notice in this case. The point is that all insured persons are in an equal position to be able to choose their own doctor or physician to perform this examination. In no way does it claim that when ordering people with a white passport in a privileged position, because public health providers in the public health network must treat all insured persons with a white passport in the same way as if they were applying services on the basis of a normally green passport. This means that the only criterion should be the condition of the patient or person in need of such a specialist examination. And how we can separate publicly and privately. You correctly concluded that the coalition had entered this into its contract. We know that the Health Act is already very old, 1992, and that it will therefore be necessary to clearly define the criteria and criteria in the new law, the call for who, when and for how long, will be able to obtain a concession, who will perform public and who will do private activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u272	The word is Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u273	Thank you very much. First of all, interesting conclusion, 16 years – of course it's not your fault, but it's government. 16 years to eliminate or try to eliminate one of the unconstitutionalities in Slovenia, which indicates a relation to the rule of law. The appearance of white passports is only the tip of an icy mountain mixing private with public, which is why most people have to wait longer for health services and the minority can wait before being justified. The problem is not yet in the first specialist reviews. Very long waiting periods are also for determining the type of diagnostics. In this area, too, we can talk about a two-tier system where the rate of treatment instead of the health condition depends on the property. Remember the KPK report on profit practices in the healthcare system. Among other things, the report found that some surgeons in public hospitals gave priority to operations to patients who had previously performed self-payment checks in private clinics where these doctors performed their afternoon activities. Such practices harm patients and everyone involved in the system. Obviously, we will have three categories of citizens in accessing health services. The first category will be those with high incomes that will buy priority treatment, the second will be those who will give up other things so that they can buy priority treatment, and the third will be those who will have to wait. The appearance of white travelers must not be underestimated. Even the Director-General of the Health Insurance Office has acknowledged that this system increases the risk that self-payers will have an unjustified advantage in waiting periods. I would therefore like to receive an even more concrete response on this: What measures will be introduced for the separation of public and private health?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u274	Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u275	Maybe two things to start with, because you mentioned waiting periods. Indeed, we can all agree that waiting periods, especially in orthopaedics, constitute some kind of violation of the right to respect the patient's time and the right to access, where necessary, or to provide health care. This is why we have recently managed to obtain €3.7 million of additional funding at the annual level for the 2014 general agreement just for the purposes of waiting periods, and then additionally for the expansion of diagnostics of €2.28 million at the annual level. There will also be an increase in the payment of prospective programmes from 5 to 10%, all for 2014, which will be paid to operators in February 2015. At the same time, it is increasing by 63.5 million the payment of programmes to all health service providers in 2015. And briefly, how will divorce – it is difficult to speak in detail now in advance, this will be defined by the Health Act, which will also be one of the priorities of drafting new legislation, in addition to the roof strategy in 2015 and 2016. In fact, it is a system or concept that the award of concessions will actually be granted, for the first time, in line with calls for time and a natural person, before the whole primary health care network, the whole secondary health network, will need to be established in Slovenia and where there is a shortage of needs, and in fact give the possibility to grant concessions or private practice. This is one basic concept or guide followed by the Ministry in the drafting of this law. However, at public hearing, it will be pre-debated with all stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u276	The word is Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I have been monitoring health and health, especially health, more than health care, as a sociologist for about 20 years, and I am also interested in at least 20 years in the ongoing reform of the health system in Slovenia, which we have been doing for 20 years. That's great, usually works in the world after 10 years, that's good, we have 20 years. But each government starts it on a new one, from its origins, and is mainly based on various individual measures. That's why I got stabbed by this white tip. And once again, one of the systems changes a little bit so that it doesn't change. This health reform has been done for more than 20 years in such a way that either something changes, which is irrelevant, or it changes so that a lobby is satisfied, so that there is no specific control of species transshipment, which is a little bit on the other side of corruption, which is large and similar in health care. Or because of the third goal, how to do as much as possible so that there is no need to do anything special. I would only warn the Minister that there is a Ljubljana Charter or the Ljubljana Charter on Health Care Reform, which was adopted by the World Health Organisation in Ljubljana in 1996. In all these reforms, we almost never use it, although we could be proud of it because it still has a Ljubljana name. And this charter says that health reforms must come from values: human dignity, equality, solidarity, professional ethics – I doubt that any of these – are directed to health, not to saving that we can pay banks, and above all must be focused on people, and above all must ensure universal accessibility and equal opportunities. Above all, which is essential, which I have not seen in 20 years since I have been monitoring this: it must be based on an integrated approach. And this white travel agent, which is why she's been particularly distracting, not based on it, and in 16 years, we could have arranged it. That is why I propose, not only because of the white passport, but because of our reflection on the health system and the attitude towards human health, which is broader than just a health system to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u278	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. The question will now be raised by Mrs Jelka Godec to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u279	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to the Minister and everyone else! At the end of November, the AMC published a report or the results of the security evaluation of Slovenian roads. You're probably familiar with this evaluation. In fact, it is a SENSOR project where highways, fast roads and two thirds of the main and regional roads were evaluated. The project itself includes 12 European countries. From this it was found that almost 60% of Slovenian main and regional roads are rated with one or two stars, the worst rating on the 5-stage scale, that almost 30 main and regional roads with only one star and that the most fatal victims are also on regional roads. At the same time, the AMC points out that there is no national road safety improvement programme. One of such regional roads, which is rated with one star, is the high risk of fatal accidents, is the Sele-Ponikva-Dolga Gora-Loca or R3-687. It is a road that was last reconstructed in the 1970s. This is also a road which was severely damaged at the time of the construction of the Maribor-Celje motorway and even when the railway tracks were being rebuilt on the Celje–Maribor route. Also from this point of view, this road was included in the budget in 2008 and an ideal design for the reconstruction of this road was also developed in 2009. To this day, despite several questions raised by Members of Parliament, the issues of state councillors have not been fully addressed on this road. The road is in a state where citizens or locals who drive there find that only suicides, pedestrians, or cyclists walk the road. Even two cars can't meet on this road anymore. I would also point out that this regional road is also important when the Celje–Slovenian Horseway is closed and that there is also traffic, so trucks with trailers are also driving along this road and so on. I have also asked you a written question about this road, but I am simply not satisfied with the answer. So I ask you again: When will this road be scheduled, or when will reconstruction begin on this road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u280	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u281	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mrs. Jelka Godec! Everything you said about this road is true. A number of questions have already been raised on this road, and the problem of this road is well-known. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads has an open investment project for the reconstruction of this regional road. There are no adequate elements of the road on this regional road due to the narrow road. The project is also included in the development programme plan with a certified identification document for the investment project. As already mentioned, in 2009 project documentation was developed for a shorter section, from the intersection of Sela to the newly built bridge. Evidence of land use was also obtained for this short section. The value of building this section was estimated at €140,000. However, an ideal design for the entire remaining section has been developed. However, the value of the investment was estimated at €21 million, together with all previous preparatory works and only construction. In the meantime, an order was also made to produce project documentation for the implementation of intermediate sections, but now the part of the response that I am not satisfied with is followed, and neither will you and you have not already been in writing. In short, at the time of the validation of this project task, the 2013 budget rebalancing was then adopted, followed by the 2014 budget rebalancies and the 2015 budget itself, in which the funds from that investment project were taken away, and therefore no such project documentation was commissioned. In view of the 2015 budget in force, which does not cover investment projects in the main and regional roads – with exceptional projects financed by European funds – the envisaged no funds – I also cannot give a forward-looking plan of action on this project. However, at the time of the adoption of the 2015 rebalancing, I will endeavour to ensure adequate financial resources for investment in road infrastructure, which is in such poor condition as this section. However, since the 2015 rebalancing cut is not yet known, I can no longer give you a more detailed answer at this time, or it will then be possible to provide some activities in this section in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u282	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u283	Once again, I stress that this road is not the only one marked with high risk; that there have already been fatal accidents on this road; that, as they say, you can choose a good car, a safe car, you can go to school safe driving, but on this road citizens have to drive every day and on one part of this road, see, it is even so that it will actually just close itself. The reptiles, not in one, but in three parts, threaten the road to that extent, that one car barely drives and that we now had in the last floods literally a geyser in the middle of the road, that the water vomited out and that then again, according to the local word, "flashed" that part. And a civil initiative has been set up, which is putting more pressure on me as well as the Member of Parliament, so that I can continue to initiate these matters. And I'm also interested in why the funds were seized in this rebalancing. Probably as a minister who is in the government, you know the resources that will be allocated to the new budget or for 2015, and you can probably give little or no indication whether these funds will be or will not be, given that the civil initiative has been set up and that people are very unhappy — a death victim among young people a year ago — and that people want to do something or want a new road, at least in the parts where it is really damaged. Today we are all driving along the middle of the road, it is drawn on the line, it is not possible to drive normally. So I would still ask you if you could say a little bit more specifically whether this money will be in 2015 or not. Directly moving, now 2008 and going to 2015, and then we know what this means, it means somewhere 2018, if these funds are ever meant to be. So please, more specifically for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u284	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u285	Thank you very much. In the 2014 rebalancing, it was not possible to provide funding for this section because already by redistributing resources from projects where dynamics for various reasons were slower from projects also financed by European funds, it is said to be an economic public service, which we know has not been provided with sufficient funds in 2014. In short, this is what we've been committed to for the most urgent purposes. However, in 2015, as it is said, this project does not have the resources foreseen. However, given that this section is in critical condition, as you are saying, we will be planning to give priority to such sections, which have been most poorly assessed under this evaluation methodology, as you have mentioned. But it all depends on how much money is actually available after the rebalancing. And I'm afraid I can't make that grade yet. We also know that the budget has not yet been fully closed, so that this cut by ministries is not yet known. If at least a few higher funds are provided in 2015 than are now available, we expect to be able to provide at least funding for the continuation of projects, project documentation in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u286	The Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, will ask Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u287	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Madam Minister, over the past period, Slovenia has been experiencing more and more natural disasters from beaches, acorns, droughts to massive floods. The areas affected by such floods have not been able to recover from the first disaster, for they have been affected by the next disaster within a few months or even weeks. This year we have had such massive floods for the fourth time, most of which are due to inadequate regulation or not to regulate watercourses at all. However, the consequences are so severe that they cause enormous damage to infrastructure, especially to the local population, even though they have secured property, they cannot afford such high costs. Therefore, since the state has not maintained watercourses for years and the responsible have not done their job, most of the damage this year occurred on municipal infrastructure. As we know, the government allocated 1.1 million euros this year with an action plan for intervention activities due to damage caused by autumn floods and 36.4 million euros in 2015. However, these funds will be intended exclusively for the rehabilitation and maintenance of watercourses. These funds will also be earmarked for the rehabilitation of state infrastructure. As we know, in the floods, most of the damage occurred directly on watercourses, water infrastructure and municipal roads. There is no spirit or hearing in the government's action plan for the rehabilitation of these people. Thus, the municipalities will be left to themselves, and let me only point out the fact that the principal or appropriate use of the congregation will be reduced, which means that they will receive less money from the municipalities and, on the other hand, that they will have to repair all the damage themselves, on municipal infrastructure. That's why I'm asking you as a competent minister: How do you plan to proceed with the rehabilitation of the area after the autumn floods? How much resources will you spend on rehabilitating the local infrastructure created by inadequate watercourses, which we know is the task of the country. When and how will you provide these funds? Above all, I am interested in where you see the role of the congregations. I therefore ask you how the municipalities themselves will manage this large proportion of rehabilitation, especially local infrastructure, given that the damage we are talking about knows that it exceeds one or even two municipal budgets per year. Madam Minister, please answer my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u288	The Minister for the Environment has the floor not Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u289	Dear President, honourable Member Jean Mahnic! Today, we have answered some of the questions already raised about procedures, that is, how to act, when the government is also addressing the consequences of natural disasters. In this question of yours, at least in my opinion, you have somehow put various things into the same set. I would like to say that this year the competent institutes have already carried out a finding of damage to the stomach, which was, we have already said today, some over 429 million, and damage after the floods on 12 and 16 September, 153 million and 895 thousand. The damage assessment process following the floods in October and November has not yet been completed, is still under way and, of course, a disaster relief programme needs to be prepared. This cannot be compared with the Action Programme against Flood Security for several reasons. It is certainly true that insufficient resources have been allocated to the regular maintenance of watercourses over the past years, but it is not true that this practice has continued this year, especially because some close to €18 million has been used to maintain watercourses in 2014. This means that the works were carried out immediately after the storms. So when there was a stomach, for example, in the Poljanska Valley all these watercourses were trained mainly to ensure the flow of water. Close to €200,000 has been invested and we cannot call it regular maintenance because this is not regular maintenance. It's about eliminating these consequences. Following the October storm, funds were also provided to prevent the flow of these watercourses at around EUR 300,000. After the storm in August, it was necessary to ensure the flow of Hrastnica, also Zabrežnik, and if I said that several more of these measures would still be produced in December and January, such as the removal of flood barriers and the removal of excessively delayed floods, I would say that these were actually intervention works after natural disasters. So if we take only the Polish Valley a little bit wider now, it's about a million euros. However, since we provide these intervention works throughout Slovenia, it is a large number of watercourses on all river basins, of course this value is then slightly over 11 million. And in the selection of these measures, when we are talking about infrastructure facilities, it is actually a set of measures where it is the very implementation of roadblocks or the actual implementation of watercourses that are approaching the road, so it is really just intervention works on these public roads. Local roads are certainly covered in the rehabilitation or in the intervention at work of these watercourses. How, under what conditions and later, how much resources will the State devote to recovery will, of course, be in the laboratories that will be prepared at the beginning of the following year after the resulting flood damage assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u290	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u291	Madam Minister, I'm not talking about the valley of Poland, but I'm glad you already know where I'm from and you know where the problem is. So I really thank you for this answer, even though you haven't answered any of the questions I've asked you, so I'm going to repeat myself, and maybe a little differently. You know, the problem is not only the Poljanska valley, they also gave up on the country in the Municipality of Loška valley, in the Municipality of Cerknica and so on. I expose the Polish Valley or the Municipality of Gorenje village - Poljane and the Municipality of Jury, because I come from there. I'm glad you already know that. And Madam Minister, when you were there, I spoke to our mayors, you promised to help. What kind of help is this? I guess you won't be able to help. I'm not saying, I'm glad you've managed to provide 25 million euros next year. Our mayor and I were also at your ministry, and we saw that a share is also intended to regulate watercourses in the Poljanska Valley or in the Pojlanska Sora basin. And yet, I think the damage caused by the local infrastructure you were saying was not part of the recovery plan. [[…]] Of course, it is part of the Action Plan because the Action Plan speaks about the rehabilitation of state infrastructure. But don't talk about local infrastructure. And if the road is local, where we have, say, a road and a dam and under this road a watercourse, where is it now, where is the country and where is the congregation? I think that if the watercourse rises up and that's why it takes the embankment, which then makes the road collapse, it's the task of the State to provide money for the rehabilitation of this watercourse, because, if we look at it, this damage to local infrastructure is caused by the failure of the State to provide the means that these watercourses are already adequately regulated. That's why, Madam Secretary, once again. How much money will you spend on rehabilitating local infrastructure? When and how will you provide these funds? Above all, where do you see the role of the congregation? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u292	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u293	Thank you. Not that I am convincing you, but I assure you that with its decision, the Government, with its action plan for flood intervention, has only reached the flow of watercourses, which is partly, that is to say, half a million euros, is also being implemented by some infrastructure facilities being adequately regulated. So the government has provided 37 million. Intervention works are worth about 12 million, and 25 million are intended not only for regular maintenance work on watercourses but also for additional work. And like you said, it's all about Slovenia. Now, I repeat – not that I am moving away from the occasion of the visit when I made sure that I will not forget them, and we have immediately approached the cleaning of the watercourses, so that there would not be any more tragedy in the event of future rainfall – that in order to prepare the measures, which are then reflected in the regulation of the infrastructure of the municipalities, in compensation for the necessary measures in private houses or in economic facilities, it is therefore necessary to determine first how much damage has been caused and then to develop a remedial programme to remedy the consequences of this damage. For floods in October and November this will be produced next year. We are producing in our own sector to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. It's a normal procedure. I don't know what the point of your question is for road rehabilitation to take place in an action programme that needed to be designed not only to maintain watercourses, but also intervention works. And, of course, this action plan then has sub-projects, including the preparation of a flood safety plan for all 61 areas where flood safety needs to be developed. So I think you're dragging me around with this question of yours. I assure you, there is no rehabilitation of state roads in the action programme, but it is only about ensuring the flow of water.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u294	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the debate be held, because what the Minister has now allowed herself to say to me that I am asking about the appropriateness of the issue, which is why you inform the people of the Polish Valley, Madam Minister, whether it is appropriate to ask them whether the country will come to their aid. Why didn't you tell the inhabitants of the Poljanska Valley on your visit? You'd rather take pictures with firefighters and make promises, but now you speak differently here in the National Assembly. I'd be very careful if I were you. It's also about people's lives when we talk about the rehabilitation of local infrastructure when we talk about the provision of watercourses. If you'll listen to me, Madam Minister, you'll have another time to comment. You know, I don't think it's fair for you to say something in the field, and then I'm listening to other things here. You haven't answered a single question. You said you didn't know what the damage was. Here, I'll tell you right now. In the municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane 860 000 euros on local infrastructure. Nothing will be guaranteed from the State. The budget is 9 million already, so it will be necessary to cut the budget in order to provide at least those intervention or emergency measures that will somehow make life easier for people after these floods. But from your response, I felt that you didn't care, that you were there in an office at the Ministry, and that doesn't even come to you. What, though, is a member of the Polish Valley who is a burden on me or who is concerned with people to finally get something? Yeah, water treatment. But I'm wondering, why hasn't this been settled so far? We have warned, even in the previous reference, Members and Members of Parliament, both coalitions and opposition, what will happen because you have not joined in regulating the consequences of the acorns. We know what it was like in the woods, how it was with these watercourses, because it didn't really approach because it was promised I didn't know what kind of money it was then. When the water comes, it'll take everything away. And that's exactly what happened. Not only in the Poljanska Valley, but also elsewhere where the floods took place in October. And, Madam Minister, instead of talking in such an arrogant way about Members or our questions, I strongly recommend or, I will say so, I ask you to finally address this issue. I propose, Mr President, that we hold a debate on the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u296	The answer of the Minister or the debate on this issue will be decided tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. At the same time, one would sometimes like at least to be part of this issue, which is addressed, also in the written part of the issue that is behind it. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is rightly absent, will now be asked by Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, whom I am asking to say whether he wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As much as there is left of the congregation today! I'd like a written answer because I want these things written down. At the meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly for Foreign Policy 14. 11. In 2014, when the budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 was on the agenda, Minister Erjavec said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would have to continue to seek compromise solutions in a tight public financial situation. In doing so, he highlighted and highlighted the issue of both potential expansion and maintenance of the existing DKP network – diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Slovenia around the world. With the fact that the current fiscal situation, including some restrictive budgetary measures, will continue in 2015, I ask Mr Karl Erjavac: How will austerity measures affect the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the coming year? In doing so, I would also ask Minister Erjavec to point out which regional and regional priorities of Slovenian foreign policy will be the most affected by austerity measures, as the network of diplomatic and consular representations is also important for the development and representation of Slovenia abroad. And I think it is extremely important that we extend this DKP network and not squander it and invest in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u298	Thank you very much. It will now be the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Mr Bojan Podkrajšek asked Dejan Židan a question. I also ask him to say whether he wants a written or oral reply because the Minister is rightly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u299	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Already in advance, I thank the Minister for his written answer to the question concerning agriculture in Slovenia, in particular the state of milk. We all know and have been listening for some time now that milk quotas will be abolished by 2015, which have limited milk production in both Slovenia and the European Community for a number of years. When these milk quotas are removed, the quantity of milk production will also increase significantly. In doing so, Slovenian farmers fear that milk prices will start to fall. We all know that we are 120% self-reliant in Slovenia, and Slovenian farmers have great problems here, especially on one side of the hill farm, which are difficult to produce, but also, of course, larger farms, which may have easier conditions for some sort, but of course, they have gone to more investment in the past and, of course, these investments are also linked to the purchase of this milk. Therefore, in order to take care of all Slovenian farmers, particularly those involved in milk production, I would ask, in view of the abolition of milk quotas in the future: What will be the agricultural policy in this area? Will new markets be sought outside the European Community to ensure this price? The question is whether the price will fall to replace this manca with subsidies. Of course, I sincerely thank the Minister for his reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u300	Thank you for asking. Now Dr. Dusan Maramor will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u301	The President, the Honourable Assembly and the Minister! My question is this. According to data from Banka Slovenije's last bulletin, the public debt was 30 June, the latest published data amounted to EUR 25.3 billion in Slovenia. I wonder how much, according to the Ministry of Finance, public debt is expected to be at the end of this year in 2014? The proportion of the total public debt is intended to cover the budget deficit and the proportion of these funds raised by public debt is then further placed in the economy and I am interested in the profitability of these assets, these various recapitalisations, placements, deposits and the like. And since this profitability is obviously relatively low, I also wonder what measures are being taken or at least is being considered to prepare them to increase the profitability of these funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u302	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u303	Yes, Your Honor, thank you very much for the question. First of all, as regards the country's projected debt in 2014, it is at the end of 2014. We have a projected consolidated country debt of EUR 30 billion 339 million or 82.2% of gross domestic product. How much of the total public debt is intended to cover the budget deficit? I must say that I know about this year's data, where it will be about 4.86%. I have also calculated since 2008 the increase in debt, the amount to be paid to the recapitalisation account and the amount to the public financial deficit and about one third to the recapitalisation ratio, two thirds to cover the public financial deficit. In terms of the return on funds, this is how it is. A return of 19.3 million euros was generated in the State budget from January to November 2014. Revenue from the administration of money at the EZR countries, however, is approximately planned for this year at €11.7 million, totalling €31 million. What measures are we planning? What did we do? We've expanded a group of domestic banks to deal with deposit transactions. We also expanded investment policy in US dollars to domestic business banks, and in September we carried out plasma deposits in US dollars to business banks. We have expanded the range of foreign euro area business banks with which the ministry could enter into deposit transactions and thus increase the volume of deposits in foreign business banks. In studying the coordination of the Agency's activities between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia and in the negotiation of cooperation with the EMF for the purpose of placement, this is the European mechanism for resolution, the surplus money of the state budget. And also in the amendment to the Public Finance Act, which we are preparing now, is the expansion of investment policy still envisaged in the temporary purchase of debt securities with a mandatory repurchase, the so-called "retail transaction", and the purchase and sale of treasury coins by the Member States of the European Monetary Union. These measures are intended to ensure higher profitability.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u304	Mr Jožef Horvat will now ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, who is rightly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor, distinguished colleague and colleague! The time of the economic crisis and the high unemployment rate in Slovenia resulted in increased cross-border mobility in the field of labour. According to informal data, close to 20,000 of our citizens, mostly from border regions – Pomurja, Styria and Koroška, you provide your survival by working in neighbouring Austria. Because they don't find work in Slovenia. These cross-border labour migrants are liable to pay income taxes in Austria, and in addition, income debtors are still in Slovenia. The European Union ensures free labour mobility between Member States, but has not established a mechanism for equal tax burdens for migrant workers. We have talked a lot about this issue, there have been many questions sent on this subject, today Dr. Marble, Minister of Finance, has already answered this subject, and I am putting the matter somewhat differently, so in the written announcement of my oral question, I have first addressed the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, who has an inside house within the Ministry of Internal Affairs, including the Directorate for European Affairs, and I think that the Republic of Slovenia has made little effort to find the right solutions within the European Union. The introduction of European citizenship, which only complements national citizenship, has built the internal market of the European Union by ensuring the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital, and has also begun to change the economic concept of free movement of people and to create a broader concept of citizenship. The implementation of the fundamental freedom of freedom of movement of workers can be drawn up by adopting the 1968 Regulation and the 1968 Directive. 360, also from 1968. Since then, labour flows have been increasing in the Member States, as has been shown by the increase in the number of atypical workers, border workers as day-to-day migrants. Border workers are placed in a different legal, social and legal position as domestic workers as they carry out their employment in a neighbouring Member State under the rules laid down by foreign law. I therefore ask both ministers, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance whether the Government will seek a definitive solution to the taxation of migrant workers by means of, in particular, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and, of course, in cooperation with the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u306	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u307	Thank you for asking. With regard to taxation within the European Union and harmonisation of this taxation, the process has been going on for a long time, but the process is extremely slow. However, it is extremely slow because, for example, it has in Ecofin, in the world of finance ministers in which I participate, every country is vetoed in tax legislation and harmonisation, so that this coordination is extremely slow, as I have already said. Various initiatives are being launched that are essentially trying to achieve a simplification of taxation in cases where we have cross-border not only migration but also other income flows and cash flows, but I must say that so far the result is relatively stings. You may be right that this should be initiated at a broader level than only at the level of tax legislation and harmonisation, and in fact I will also suggest to Minister Erjavac that they raise this issue on the Council of Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u308	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u309	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This is actually an encouraging prediction. I think she'll be happy with all the migrant workers, the day-to-day migrants, the weekly migrants, who, as we say, are looking for work mainly in Austria. As you know, it is also in contact with you Civil initiative Apache, who is working hard to solve this problem definitively. And it will certainly be the right solution for foreign ministers to make maximum efforts to address this issue, given that the number of migrants is increasing from year to year. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU does not contain provisions for the coordination of national policies in the field of direct taxation of border workers, so it is not possible to regulate the situation in a uniform manner, but is being assessed in accordance with the national legislation of each Member State. We all remember the Constitutional Court's decision on 29 May 2013, which found that there was no specific tax relief for a cross-border migrant, a resident of 7 000 euros a year, and a legislator, the National Assembly, therefore, abolished the opposition by abolishing this relief. We knew that it was only a matter of time before the Constitutional Court would actually come to a halt with regard to this relief. Such justification by the Court is true, but I believe that the situation of border workers should also be assessed from the point of view of transnational law, as border workers belong to the category of workers in the European Union who are free of movement under Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and thus to eliminate any discrimination based on nationality. I am also giving the Minister the opportunity to perhaps further clarify the concept of resolving this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u310	Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u311	As I answered the previous question, but I was absent, so I answered today, the Ministry of Finance has worked very hard to solve this problem. As you know, there has been a change to the Income Act, where he introduced this relief amounting to EUR 7 000 500. As you yourself mentioned, then the Constitutional Court ruled that such a law was unconstitutional and a solution was unconstitutional and therefore with 1. 1. 2014 this relief is no longer available. It is also true that the number of these border migrants, working migrants, is increasing very rapidly and again we have been looking for other solutions. Solutions that we compared the cost of eating in Slovenia with the cost of eating in Austria and so on and looked for solutions where we would try to reduce these differences in taxation. We have prepared the Income Act, which took account of, say, this difference between Austria and Slovenia, but the Government's Law Service also felt that this solution was constitutionally controversial and that the Government did not consider this attempt to regulate the situation. So for the time being, it is probably necessary to look for solutions in the direction that have been pointed. A wider European problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u312	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u313	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the Minister for his answers, and again I ask him to convey this issue to his colleague, Minister Erjavac. 246. Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly gives me the opportunity to propose or request a debate of the National Assembly on that issue and I think that all Members could contribute to a final solution at European level when making maximum efforts. Although citizens of the European Union have the right to equal treatment in relation, the principle of tax equality cannot prevail over the special provisions of fundamental freedom of freedom of movement in the internal market, which, in the Commission's view, cannot be weakened, as workers' mobility is one of the key potential for increasing growth and employment. And that's our common goal. This will also have to be borne in mind by the legislator, i.e. us, colleagues and colleagues, and, of course, by the Government that is preparing legislation, in regulating the situation of border workers, who may nevertheless pursue an objectively justified objective that is appropriate to ensure that this objective is achieved and does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve this objective. The current economic situation is not an argument allowing the state to regulate. Whatever the case, the legislator, the National Assembly, should also take into account the fact that mass evictions are carried out from the country. Today, we have several thousand data, perhaps 10,000 people have since the Constitutional Court passed that decision, moved out of our country. I'm sure that's not our goal. And we need to tackle this with new, better, more stimulating legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u314	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. As follows, he asks the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mramor, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u315	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, respectable Minister of Finance Dr. Marble! I ask you a question: Are you familiar with the financial and business plan of the Company for Bank Claims Management for 2015? How much budget income should be foreseen from the Bank's Claims Management Company?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u316	Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u317	Thank you so much for asking. Let me answer this question a little wider. I could have told him directly that I know the business finance plan and so on. But let me basically explain the logic of the DUTB. As we know, it's a stock company. The provisions of the Company Act shall apply unless otherwise specified by the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. According to this law, DUTB has obtained from the DUTB banks the assets it makes to maximize its value. The payment of the property was made by means of bonds which have the State guarantee. It has taken over assets of long-term economic value, which is the value that is reasonably expected in a stable financial system after the crisis conditions have ceased. This value for most assets exceeds the market value on the day of transfer. The 2013 revised DUTB annual report shows that the negative shifts in the transfer from NLB and NKBM amounted to only EUR 39 million, i.e. only 4% of the transfer prices, i.e. that the logic of these prices made sense. In addition, DUTB generated slightly less than €6 million in business losses in 2000. We must be aware that in 2013 serious business was practically impossible because the transfer was not carried out until the end of the year, the transfer of, say, individual claims of this material and so on in fact only in 2014. In 2014, DUTB also took over the assets of the Bank and at the end of December, the acquisition of assets from the Bank of Celje is planned, as is said in the following days, at a transfer value of 127 million. An internal valuation that will evaluate the market value of this asset has not yet been carried out. DUTB’s core capital is EUR 203 million. In 2013, the actual loss remained uncompensated. DUTB does not have established reserves. The capital serves as a buffer to cover risks and actually enables the effective management of the assets taken. The primary objective of the DUTB is to pay as much as possible from each individual claim. In order to improve the quality of assets and thus the ability to pay claims, the DUTB has to play a proactive role in restructuring companies, which is crucial to us. DUTB may restructure these companies with one or more activities – reduction of claims, deferral of maturity of claims, reduction of interest rate, conversion of claims of shares of companies and acquisition of other claims and shares, or increase of core capital with new cash or real deposits. These activities also require adequate capital. If we go to 2015, due in 2015 to pay the DUTB 1 bond, at the end of 2015 the DUTB payment, which exceeds EUR 500 million, must be paid to the principal at DUTB 1 and interest from other issued bonds. DUTB intends to refinance most of the payment, 340 million to refinance by issuing bonds, as the inflows from asset management will not be sufficient. In short, that's why she won't be able to pay the dividend. As provided for in the SGEI-1, the equity company may pay the shareholders either through dividends or in the event of a reduction in the share capital and in the event of liquidation or bankruptcy. The same applies to DUTB and its payments to the budget. According to the 2014 and 2015 figures, there is no possibility of payment of funds to the budget. Payments to the budget are planned for later years when DUTB repays most of the bonds issued. The objective of the DUTB in this plan, which is not only for 2015 but is longer, for the whole period of operation, 8 % of the return on capital on average per year. The Ministry of Finance is aware of this plan. The DUTB business plan is currently planned to be sent to the National Assembly, together with a proposal for a new Law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, which is foreseen in the first quarter of 2015. The adoption of the law and discussions on the business and financial plan will allow for a comprehensive discussion on the mission of the strategy and objectives of the DUTB, because here [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u318	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u319	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, you have answered my question in part. I've been very specific about the issue. I assume that every serious society, both in Slovenia and in the world, must have a business-financial plan for next year. Today we are 15 December, and I expect that the Bank Claims Management Company should have one business and financial plan for 2015. And from this title, I am interested in what will be the inflow to the budget of the funds. Is he going to be one or not? If I understood you correctly in your answer, this tide would not be. This means that the 2015 budget for the Bank Claims Management Company will have no inflow The law itself speaks of the purpose and purpose of establishing this company as one of the main purposes and objectives of the recovery of budgetary resources. And when can we now expect the Bank's Claims Management Company to reimburse me? Of course, one of the articles of this law also says that the company should sell at least 10% of the estimated assets annually. I would also like to know what is the plan for the disposal of this property in 2015? This should probably be evident from the business-financial plan. Once again, I ask you: Are you familiar with the business and financial plan of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims 2015? Is there a plan or not? And if you can answer my question: Why did you ban the bank's claims management company from cashing out guarantees? What will be the consequences of this title? We know there are creditors here. From this heading, will the Claims Management Company then be able to work economically further?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u320	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u321	Once again, I am directly answering the question. Of course, the inflows from the Company for the Management of Bank Claims to the State Budget 2015 are not foreseen and this is not foreseen in this business plan, as the DUTB must continue to settle its liabilities, the liabilities from the bonds it issued when the assets transferred from the banks to the DUTB which it issued to the banks and, of course, we guaranteed those bonds. Second question. Why did we ban the repayment of loan guarantees? The reason was very simple. In order to cash these DUTB guarantees to the Ministry, but to the State, the State should establish its claim to this company because the guarantee would have been cashed. In this case, however, the state can do very little; it is practically very limited in what it can do to help restructure the company. Since such an undertaking is in difficulty, DUTB has other options than the State and is established to restructure businesses. I have already mentioned what all the measures the DUTB can take. It is a whole series of these measures which the state cannot implement, but our objective is to restructure businesses, not only financially but also business. And if this guarantee had been cashed out in the country, the state would have a claim that could not even prolong it, nor could it have written it down and so on, which the DUTB can do. That is why this decision was also adopted at the time in the Government, and in that sense it was also enforced. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u322	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Ms Vesna Vervega, who is rightly absent, will ask, at this point, whether she wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u323	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! The 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme is substantively coordinated and will be endorsed by the European Commission by the end of this month. The representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food said this on Wednesday on the home committee and informed the members of the content of the field work programme and plans. For Slovenian agriculture and rural development, the financial support provided by the programme is crucial. I am pleased that, in the new version of the programme, they have increased the share of the allocated funds for organic agriculture and will also promote organic agriculture in the future, as this form has a good perspective in the Slovenian area. Indeed, the demand for organic food is increasing and we must import three quarters of this food. It has a minor impact on climate change, contributes to reducing pollution and sustainable development. In the framework of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, LEADER measures will also be implemented, where promoters of the development of a local action group called LAGs play a major role. In this case, it is the initiatives of the population in their own local community to introduce new activities such as domestic trade, entrepreneurship, knowledge transfer, cultural and natural heritage. In the previous financial period, some smaller local communities, such as the Municipality of Pesnica and Šentilj, have failed to implement within the LAG local development strategy those measures that are most important to this local community. For the new financial period, changes are also envisaged in the way LAG is organised and operated. I ask the Minister: What are these key changes and will they contribute to greater autonomy and autonomy in the functioning of individual smaller local communities or communities? Please let the Minister answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u324	Thank you. This brings us to a second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. First, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anjo Kopač Dark, will ask Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u325	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, Minister, welcome to the rest of the SMC in the hall! It is more than obvious that social policy in the Republic of Slovenia does not produce satisfactory results. On 5 December 2014, the European Commission approved an operational programme for material aid to the most vulnerable for the period 2014-2020. Slovenia will receive EUR 20.5 million by 2020, which is expected to be complemented by EUR 3 million from the state budget. The resources of the European Social Fund for Employment and Social Innovation and the PROGRESS programme are also available, which is essentially concluded financially. Unfortunately, such resources are always scarce, so in the United Left we are increasingly concerned about approaches to addressing the problem of poverty. Most of the European funds shall be used for activities carried out by external operators, undertakings or non-governmental organisations. Part of the labour offices is bureaucratic, they have become intermediaries between unemployed and external service providers of questionable benefits. According to a series of amendments to social security legislation, which strengthens the criteria for receiving social security benefits, employees at social work centres are engaged in administrative activities and much less in social work on the ground. The results of such an action are not satisfactory. Slovenia is moving away from the objectives set by the Europe 2020 strategy. Instead of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by 40,000 by 2020, the number of people at risk has increased by 44 000 in the last three years. The employment rate was only 67.2% last year. The long-term average of long-term unemployment, which was around 3.5%, reached 5.2% last year. In the United Left it is a sober assessment of the situation and a search for better solutions. Social conditions are getting worse. In Slovenia, poverty risk increased from 17.1 to 20% between 2006 and 2013. The objectives of Europe 2020 should be to eliminate absolute poverty in the European Union or at least in Slovenia if the European Union is unable to achieve such a goal. Minimalisation of the problem of poverty is not acceptable. The fact that the situation in Slovenia is better than the best in the affected EU countries must not be an excuse for satisfaction, because, as long as poverty is limited, it can be eliminated later when it develops into a culture of poverty, it is too late. In this regard, Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, the following questions are raised: Do social work centres and offices have sufficient resources and resources to carry out their duties? Are funds flowing into the private sector being spent usefully? Can these methods, such as increasing funds, eliminate absolute poverty? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u326	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u327	Thank you for the questions, Comrade Dr. Duck. In view of the introduction you have made, the questions you have asked me are probably the most aware of the fact that I cannot only answer the question of whether the Centre for Social Work has sufficient staff and whether the funds we are earmarking are sufficiently effective for the private sector. You have highlighted the problem of the European Union, the issue of poverty within the European Union. On the inside you have asked the question of Slovenia, the problem of employment, the fall in employment in Slovenia and related unemployment. You mentioned the issue of work offices, which you think are bureaucratic. You mentioned that we have a 20% poverty rate. I'm glad it hasn't yet, but it's about 14.5%. So when we talk like that, it's a little hard to be concrete. And we from the Faculty of Social Sciences know that sometimes it is much harder to give some comprehensive answers to these social questions, especially in three minutes, than we have available in the National Assembly. Certainly, poverty is a problem of modern societies. As you mentioned, for example, the question of this fund that we have. You said we had $20.5 million. The fact is that we had a little less than a million before that, but also at the time of economic growth, unfortunately, like most European countries, we also spent resources to help the most vulnerable. So the problem of poverty is, unfortunately, our constant. How much of this, of course, is the question of how modern societies face the issue of poverty. Europe is certainly not the most effective at this time. The question is, above all, the functioning of the internal market, as it is harmonisation of legislation, while social policy as such remains primarily within the competence of national states due to the principle of subsidiarity. And, if we already have such a broad question, I would answer that, in fact, poverty is also at this global level at this moment, especially the lack of policy coherence. If a global policy, financial markets are defined in a global segment, national policy remains the responsibility of national countries. Of course, it is very limited in its ability to act. And, of course, within the European Union, there is a question of constitutional competence – unfortunately, more and more countries rely on the principle of subsidiarity and do not want the European Union's joint activities in the fight against poverty. Slovenia has always advocated the active role of the European Union here and will do so in the future. As far as all of this is concerned, it is not insignificant, but, of course, not such a fateful issue, the functioning of social work centres. At this point, one of the key objectives of the next year is to reorganise the work of the Centres for Social Work; they need to be given more opportunities to work on the ground, with people, to re-focus on professional work. Unfortunately, this reduction in the number of employees also affects social work centres. In particular, we are fighting to make this as effective as possible through European funds, so that in 2014 there were 62 professional workers funded at social work centres, thus under European funds. Since 2010, the Ministry of Labour has been co-financed by traineeships, with more than 100 trainees in last year alone. Then we also have public workers in the system who do not perform professional works, but offer administrative assistance. Social work centres are also applying for regular calls for social protection programmes. In fact, the numbers that are falling are trying to effectively reduce with other resources, by European means. In the new financial perspective, which is also crucial for the development of social policies and these programmes, for the first time in addition to employment policy, social policy falls under the 9th operational programme, where priority over the next seven years is mainly the preparation of social activation programmes and deinstitutionalisation. This will strengthen the Centres for Social Work, but, of course, the precondition is an effective reorganisation and also an amendment to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. It is also linked to the Social Protection Act, which must have a new structure for social work centres, which will be much more regionally concentrated, and in particular the implementation of a social account that will put an administrative burden on workers of social work centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u328	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u329	Thank you for your word. With the answer, of course, completely, unfortunately, I am not satisfied. I don't doubt your good intentions, Madam Secretary. The fact is, as you yourself have indicated, that Europe obviously does not have a social policy, but we are part of this Europe and we must act proactively and strive in this direction and connect. You said I asked a lot of questions. I'd say we have a broader problem than just questions. Look, I know you're familiar. I'm coming from Maribor. They had to stop paying for extraordinary social assistance. We've got a situation where some unemployed gentleman's brother dies, but he can get social assistance and pay for his funeral. Then his mother dies, and he has nothing to bury her with, at home. We have cases in the center of Maribor that the lady is in a denationalized apartment because the owner did not pay, without electricity and water in the 21st century. We're threatened with abolishing all social programs, so let's leave it at the bottom of the line if it's Fiscrates' pear. The ladies at the Centre for Social Work in Maribor are experiencing nervous breakdowns. In short, we need to be aware of some seriousness of the situation, and yet I would like a slightly more concrete answer to how you will urgently solve problems that are not only in Maribor – Zasavje, Bela krajina, Koroška, Prekmurje, Kočevska, we could run a little analysis here. I know you're aware of this, and I'd like a little more specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u330	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u331	Thank you. Mr Trček, we both know very well that social policy divides what is created. That's the key. The question we have in the area of social policy is whether we are sharing it in a fair manner. Above all, it is at the forefront when we expose these truly crisis situations of people, especially how we will create more so that we can divide them. Maribor is certainly a problem, and it is also a social policy issue as it has been since the 1990s trying to create a greater role for local communities in the implementation of programmes that are part of social policy or social security programmes. Regrettably, the analysis of the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia shows that the unequal access to these services, which were transferred to the local community during the 1990s, is the most obvious. So, in fact, you have previously read to the President something about the centralisation of the country, while in the area of social policy, the whole time of this development, since independence, has been an attempt to strengthen local communities. This one's never lived well enough. Of course, there are many reasons. Maribor has its own problems. I remember in 2013 it was interesting that when we were with the government in Maribor at that time, there were many questions about Maribor, at the end when I received the data from the Employment Institute, but it was found that they did not spend resources on public works. Now, problems are numerous and, of course, Maribor, as it is, is primarily the problem of jobs, available jobs, the issue of economic development, so that people can have jobs. However, it is necessary to prevent people from being materially threatened by the programmes and I, however, Slovenia, if we look at how much we give, how much we devote to social policy, we are above the average of the European Union. [[…]] We are also among the better countries in terms of efficiency in reducing the risk of poverty in the European context. Even in this crisis, we have reduced resources, at least in the last two years, we have not. We are still spending a billion 300 million dollars to help people, which, of course, given the general situation in the country, many colleagues on some other side would think that we are making too much of this. In short, we try to help people as best we can, but we need more created to be able to share, and people need to be able to do their job and survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u332	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u333	Thank you for your word. Of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a debate. Of course, I did not tell Mr Cerar that centralisation is happening in Slovenia, and I can prove it empirically. The fact is, there has been a revolution through a sector that has somehow been feudalized by Social Democracy. Look, over the last few years, we've been talking about the wrong reasons, the social fraud, and so on. It seems to me that we are asking too little about some particular difficult condition that we have. Now, of course, most of the matters on the theoretical level are matched, but you are now the "capo" of this executive authority, which has to deal with this so that we do not slip into the spiral of a culture of poverty, because we both know very well as a sociologist once we slip into this, it will be difficult to come back. We're both so methodologically subdued that we know that you're looking for statistics that suit you better, I'm the statistics that point more to these problems. I would frankly say that a quarter of the people in this country live very badly, that they are poor, that this is a problem that we have to face, that this is a more important challenge than fiscal rule and so on. Now that I will not be too long, because most are already tired – here, even a colleague of the opposition has arrived – I hope we will have a thorough discussion on this. I don't care about the average. I am interested in the problem of some absolute poverty, which is very visible in Maribor. Come once, I'll invite you to Maribor on Sunday, colleague, I'll cook you a lunch and we'll go to a better market in Maribor, this is the other face of Maribor, and we'll see how it is there. I hope we can find some practical solutions. Also, how much the fault of some local, municipal authority is, how much the national authority is, after all, someone who is poor is not interested. You have to communicate, as you would say, with every typical FDV master's degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u334	I consider this to be a proposal for a discussion in response, so we will decide on your proposal tomorrow, 16 December 2014, in the framework of the votes. Now the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanislavo Setnika Cankar, asks Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u335	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! Allow me to read some of the sentences in the coalition contract to begin: "The coalition partners are aware that sport is its social, educational and social role as one of the fundamental building blocks of national identity, and thus an important content of the wider public interest of the country. The multiple social roles played by sport call for precise and coordinated coordination of all areas, with a view to appropriate development, support and promotion of sport activities as components of public interest. Particular attention should be paid to those sports activities and groups that need initial support for their activities to act as smoothly as possible on their own and at the same time prevent the current social circumstances from preventing sports activities from the most vulnerable social groups. The coalition also undertakes to continue to support the development of high-level sport at all levels of its occurrence, with the aim of increasing the visibility of Slovenia. For these purposes, we will advocate the establishment of an open and transparent system of action, the modernisation of the existing sport infrastructure and the awareness of the social and economic role of professional and recreational sport, and to continue, "in particular, with a view to modernising the existing sport infrastructure". Madam Minister, I've looked at some of the invitations. In the past, the tender was, say, 2009 for sport infrastructure. We know that in 2009, we had an arranged call for the Stožice Sports Hall, which collected about 9 million and 400 thousand euros. Then this year we had a 7 million-euro tender on the infamous gymnastics centre in Ljubljana. And for that reason, Madam Minister, I ask the following question: When can we expect an invitation to co-finance investments in public sport infrastructure during your term of office? What will you do to ensure that no future calls are made? And within your mandate: Can we expect a call that will include a condition that the sports facility that will run for co-financing will be in some not-so-urban environment? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u336	The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanislav Setnika Cankar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the question, which, of course, is very up to date. It is correct to conclude that without investments, investments in this infrastructure we cannot pursue objectives that are extremely important. In addition to education, education, sports activities, it is important to lay down criteria for the inclusion of people in society and for the achievement of certain objectives. True, you mentioned that in the past there were greater opportunities for investment, there were calls. I have information that 415 million €141,000 has been earmarked for the construction of public sports facilities in the period 2000-2010. European funds are also included here, of course. So, a really large part of the resources that this infrastructure could have improved very well. It was not intended only for facilities that serve more professional forms of sport, much of which was also intended for educational institutions and therefore we believe that during this period these investments have been largely met with demand in various areas. Unfortunately, in defining the conditions for the operational programme 2014-2020, we regret to have found that it was no longer possible to run with infrastructure facilities, not in the field of sport. Therefore, in the next period, construction is actually envisaged, which will mean to some extent more completion of the construction of investments that have started or moved over the next period. Let me give you some information. I am limited to investments in public education institutions, i.e. the investments of the First Celje and Domžale High School, in 2010-2011, obtained construction permits that already run for extended periods in November 2015 and 2016 respectively. On these two buildings, the construction works must be started before the construction permit expires, otherwise an application for a building permit must be submitted again. In particular, Domžale Sports Hall, for the Domžale Central School project, the Ministry obtained this permit in 2011, due to a decrease in the assets of the rebalancing 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 the publication of the public contract and the implementation of the works was later cancelled in 2015-2017. The building permit was extended until January 2016 in 2014. However, before the expiry of the deadline, construction works must be started. It is therefore an invitation to tender for the selection of the contractor to be published in early 2015. The first high school Celje – sports hall, the school operates in desperate spatial conditions because they have a real miniature gym. In the project, a building permit was obtained, the landscape was arranged, the sports field was moved, and the possibility of a public-private partnership was examined in the construction works. This way of implementing saves us funds that would otherwise be invested in high foundations due to the flood threat of the location. Once again, due to the reduction of funds, this was the budget rebalance 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, now the publication of the public procurement part is cancelled after 2016. The building permit was extended until November 2015. Before the expiry of the deadline, construction works should be started, otherwise the building permit should be set aside. I'd like to mention another investment, this is Slovenj Gradec. There is a new building, a gym for the needs of the Slovenian School Centre Gradec for vocational inn, forestry schools, 15 departments and 8 sections of the Secondary School of Health. For the new construction, a public architectural course was carried out, a first prized laboratory was chosen and in 2015 a project documentation will be produced to obtain a building permit [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The start of the implementation is foreseen in 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u338	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u339	Thank you again, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I am pleased that we agree that investment in sports facilities is very important. As you yourself have said, there have been some in the past, but I believe that any investment, either in the sports field or elsewhere, must be. I myself and here also in the Hall Mrs. Murgelj and Mr. Zorman took part in the awarding last week for the disabled athlete 2014. There we saw really great achievements of these people, who unfortunately do not have the conditions to work as we do and with many people when I spoke there, said to me that the thing they want, in addition to, of course, greater financial resources and greater support from the state of the municipality and so on, is especially suitable sports infrastructure, suitable spaces in which they can train. I have asked this question myself, I believe that there are many such projects, which are either already under way, as you said and nicely said, that at least financial resources are earmarked for these. But I asked this question because in the Poljanska Valley, in the municipality of Gorenja Vas – Poljane and in the municipality of Jiri, we are already very close to this construction permit. We will build new sports halls or multi-purpose halls in the municipality of Gorenje Vas – Poljane and in the municipality of Jiri. And because our mayors are not like to take two, three, four million loans and build a monument, if I may say so, waiting for the invitation to tender, waiting for the European funds or the country's invitation to tender. Therefore, Madam Minister, once again, if you can possibly give me a slightly more concrete answer that even the local community, which has been expecting something for a really long time, is waiting for these new facilities, you yourself said that you also have relatives in the Poljanska Valley, I believe that we will look at these objects: Can we expect, within your mandate, any invitation to co-finance these sports facilities that we intend to build? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u340	The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanislava Setnikar Cankar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u341	Of course, I would like to reply to you that the funds for new investments also exist in the integrated budget. Unfortunately, in fact, this guarantee for 2015 cannot be given for a simple reason, because in the search for savings we had to reserve only funds for investment maintenance, especially facilities in earthquake areas and others, and therefore unfortunately there are no remaining funds for new investments. You know the possibility of pumping is changing. In fact, there is no possibility of drawing on investment facilities, infrastructure facilities for the time being, but options may be released in 2016 and 2017. I will make a personal effort to ensure that the environment that has never been involved in such calls before, if these options are made public, is given this opportunity. I don't know a specific case, but thank you very much for having given me this invitation in the past, with pleasure, not this year, next year I'm calling in the Polish Valley.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u342	All right, Mr. Jean-Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u343	Mr President, please don't tell me I abused the rules of procedure. I will not ask for a debate, I just wanted to say, Madam Minister, thank you for your sincere reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u344	Minister of Culture Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar will ask Mr Andrej Chuš a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u345	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good evening, Madam Minister, and, of course, colleagues and colleagues who insist with us. I myself have decided to ask for a long time an oral question in the field of culture. Why? Not because I am a second term in a row member of the Committee on Culture and here and there, of course, I get an e-mail or an email that binds to cultural issues, but because I think, somehow, that culture must also be a driving force for the development of not only society, I think, of course, of cities and of course, of rural areas. And a lot of e-mails and, of course, also physical mail I got from quite a few local communities around the country, reporting that please let me storm, because the Ministry of Culture cannot meet or meet its financial obligations to maintain cultural heritage, i.e. monuments and so on, across the country. So, of course, I decided to ask you, Madam Minister: What about the realisation of financial resources for the maintenance of cultural heritage in this calendar year? Since, in the previous year or this year, in the previous reference, the National Assembly also passed a law on the provision of financial resources for emergency cultural programmes which was rejected, in my opinion, it was rejected mainly because of the error of the Social Democrats who drafted their proposal for this law and did not invite local communities, other parliamentary groups to participate in the drafting of this law, and unfortunately the law eventually fell. You have repeatedly said in the media that this is one of your priorities in the coming weeks or months, so I am particularly interested in: How far is this, can we say, marriage preparation? Have you decided to join other parliamentary groups and local communities in drafting this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u346	The word is from the Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u347	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, Mr. Andrej Chuš! Thank you for the question. According to the National Programme for Culture, the Ministry of Culture also supports investments in public infrastructure and the restoration of cultural monuments owned by municipalities that go beyond local importance. The defined priority criteria for the selection of investments in municipal public infrastructure and municipal cultural monuments that go beyond local importance are: ensuring the co-financing share of the municipality, preparing the project or investment for the immediate start of implementation, consistent investment objectives with the objectives of the National Programme for Culture, the effects of the project on the development of the wider environment and the acquisition of new areas for cultural activities. The appropriations shall be allocated on the basis of calls for proposals. The National Programme for Culture lists the investments of local communities that come under the responsibility of co-financing or funding by the Ministry of Culture; the list may be supplemented. According to the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017, the total amount of investment in municipal public cultural infrastructure and cultural monuments owned by municipalities amounts to EUR 3 million 191 000 789, in 2015 to more than EUR 26 million, in 2016 to almost EUR 82 million, in 2017 to around EUR 26 million and after 2017 to a total of EUR 17 million, and in total to around EUR 155 million. The data show that the resources available so far by the Ministry of Culture from the Integrated Budget are negligible for these purposes, given the great needs of the municipalities previously mentioned. Following the adoption of the 2014 budget, the same after the 2014 budget rebalancing, there were only EUR 882 000 of these funds. According to the 2015 budget, this is from the period of the previous government, which is half of which is 478 thousand 56 euros. These funds do not contribute much to the investment of municipalities. In fact, funds for this purpose have been pooled already in 2013 and 2014 and a call for proposals for these funds has been published for the period 2013 and 2014. Most parishioners and some private individuals applied for the invitation. To this end, 15 projects were carried out in the field of construction or conservation works co-financed by the Ministry of Culture at EUR 1.7 million. The renovation of the roof at the Monfort salt warehouse in Portorož, announced by the municipality of Piran, amounting to EUR 98 000 450, was also co-financed and the renovation of the small hall of Velenje cultural home, which is a project of the Municipality of Velenje, amounting to EUR 148 thousand 978. Integral funds are also low for investment in cultural infrastructure, which has also been falling for many years, from €26 million in the 2009-10 million budget in 2011, to €3 million in 2013 and only €1 million and several more after the 2014 budget rebalancing. Despite low funds, the Ministry has in the past co-financed some municipal projects into public cultural infrastructure, which also had the status of cultural heritage. These are municipal projects of the Municipality of Ljubljana and of the municipalities of Vipava, Lenart, Krško, Piran, Pivka, Šentjur, Šmarješke Toplice, all from the Ministry of Integrated Resources of EUR 335 000 811 and from the European Union grants of EUR 7.2 million. From the 2007-2013 financial perspective, which we will be able to draw back in 2015, the Ministry of Culture managed to restore and revitalise a total of 20 cultural heritage and public cultural infrastructure facilities, where 600 new gross jobs were created at the end of 2013. In the new programming period 2014-2020 [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And then, probably, next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u348	Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u349	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you for your answers, but I would like to say that one of the main reasons I have decided to ask you this oral question, including from the local environment. In the last days, you must have been talking for quite some time and looking for solutions for a castle in the Dornava congregation. Besides, I say Ptuj is the most beautiful congregation, but Dornava is also a very beautiful congregation. In fact, one palace, very large, can say, pearl, one of the pearls of the lower Podravje, where unfortunately you received from the local community a few days ago by post keys to enter the castle. The reason for this, of course, is that, as the Ministry of Culture, you could not fulfil your financial obligations to the local community, so in this case the municipality of Dornava, there are 30,000 Euros of maintenance funding for this year. Maybe it's funny what this guy's fighting for, but I have to say it's really one of them, I can say about culture, the biggest monuments in the region, even at the state level. I was quite disappointed when I had to be informed in the media and also by the local communities that the Ministry of Culture had received the key to managing this castle after more than ten years, because it simply could not transfer 30,000 euros. And of course, I am particularly interested in this case, and, of course, I hope today that when people saw that I also had an announcement of this oral question, I have already received some emmes, including messages, if, but something is supposed to be moving. But I'd still like to know: Will the state now fulfil these contractual and legal obligations towards the Dornava Municipality and, of course, how will this be done in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u350	The word is from the Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u351	Thank you very much for this addition. As far as this problem you're talking about is concerned, it's a little different. In fact, it is supposed to be a delay in payment due to the fact that a payment application was not due in 2010 in time. Mr Mayor and I have agreed that we will meet and I think we will resolve this matter as well. So it's not about the Ministry not having 30 grand. As far as this is concerned, the Ministry fulfils its obligations in this part. But I believe that everyone's city, where he lives, is of course the most beautiful place for him, and I look forward to being you. However, I also wanted to say that during the 2014-2020 programming period, we cannot rely on getting European funds back because of the lack of a priority investment in preserving, protecting, promoting and reviving cultural heritage. So that some smaller projects may also be possible in terms of cultural heritage within the priority axis, the better state of the environment or biodiversity, but it is not about the Ministry of Culture being the bearer of this priority investment, these projects will also be in the role of improving the state of the environment or protecting biodiversity. We do not expect much to be done from these investments. However, the Ministry is working very hard to integrate cultural heritage projects into any other European Union programmes. Thus, at the end of November, we included ourselves with cultural projects in a set of Slovenian projects, the so-called Juncker Programme, which we have included with three projects, including the Revitalisation and Restoration of Cultural Heritage and Public Cultural Infrastructure project of EUR 140 million, as far as this project could succeed, then we could make up to a great extent for the current revenue shortfall. But this project, the truth of the matter, is still quite uncertain. The further fate of co-financing the municipal cultural heritage, as well as the State-level heritage, will depend, of course, on the law that you have mentioned, which is intended to provide urgent investment in cultural heritage and public cultural infrastructure that we intend to invest. We hope that the Members will vote in favour of this law and also make sure that the funds are actually provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u352	Thank you for that answer. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on 16 December 2014, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 3rd session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you.
