ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-30-SDZ6-Izredna-67.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 67th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Žgajner, Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Mrs Irena Tavčar, mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Alenka Bikar, Mrs Tina Komel, Mrs Janja Navast, Mr Bojan Starman, Mr Janez Ribič, Mr Dragan Bosic, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Marijan Pojbič, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Darko Jazbec and Mr Happy Meh. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 67th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, 30 May 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. Before we move to a decision on the agenda, I suggest you check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting on the agenda. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 67th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article, the President of the Government shall be appointed by the President of the Council of the European Union. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 65th extraordinary meeting, on 15 May 2014, the National Assembly took note of the conclusion that the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 225 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he would not propose a candidate for the President of the Government. On 16 May 2014, the deadline set out in Article 111, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in which candidates for the President of the Government could be proposed, expired on 29 May 2014. Within this time limit, none of the qualified candidates proposed a candidate for Prime Minister of the Government. In view of this, it shall begin with the moment when the National Assembly finds that no nominations have been submitted, within a period of 48 hours within which the National Assembly may, pursuant to Article 228(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide that the elections of the President of the Government may be held in accordance with Article 111(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 112, Article 227 and Article 228 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is informed of the following decision: The National Assembly notes that, pursuant to Article 111(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, none of the qualified candidates have submitted a candidate to the Prime Minister of the Government. The period referred to in Article 111, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia shall begin on 30 May 2014 at 16:00 and 5 minutes and shall expire on 1 June 2014. I take it the National Assembly has made a decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Defence proposal for the implementation of the Prime Minister's will on the basis of the fourth paragraph 111. ARTICLE OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND PARAGRAPH 228 Member of the Parliamentary. In accordance with the agreement at the 100th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly of Members and Members, I shall inform the Member State or at least 10 Members by Sunday, 1 June 2014, to submit a proposal for a decision on the implementation of the election of the President of the Government pursuant to Article 111, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 228, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision must be submitted in accordance with Article 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since the State choice on the proposal for a decision on the conduct of elections must decide within a constitutional time limit of 48 hours, it is not possible to set a later time limit for the submission of a proposal for a decision. If a proposal for a decision for the election of the President of the Government is submitted, the National Assembly shall, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of Slovenia, decide publicly by a majority of the votes of the Members present. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. I also interrupt the 67th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Sunday, 1 June 2014, at 12 noon. Thank you and goodbye by Sunday.
