ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Janja Slug, Mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Ange Logar and Roberto Battelli. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the President of the Government, Dr. Miroslav Cerar, and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Muror, to the 2nd item of the agenda, Dr. Matejo Kožuh Novak, Dr. Ivan Kristan, Dr. Miran Mihelčič and Mrs Branko Kastelic, representatives of the five thousand elections and voters to the 9th item of the agenda, Ms. Vlasto Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman to the 11th item of the agenda, mag. Ms Irena Praček, Director of the Energy Agency, on the 12th item of the agenda, the President of the Government of Dr Miroslav Cerar and Mr Alenko Smerkolj, the candidate for the Minister without a resource, responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion for the proposed enlargement, the representative of the Council of Justice on the 18th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government on all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 7 November 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. Dr Matej Kožuh Novak, Dr Ivan Kristan, Dr. Miran Mihelčič and Branka Kastelic, on behalf of the proposer of the National Assembly, are proposing to withdraw from the agenda of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly the 9th item, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, the second reading. You have received a motion for withdrawal and is published in the e-club. Does Dr. Matei Kožuh Novak want to speak as a representative of the proposer? Please, Dr. Matey Kožuh Novak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, our representatives in the highest legislative body that the people of Slovenia really need you. We do not ask you to oppose the decision of the Committee on Home Affairs, which proposes to withdraw the law from the agenda as inappropriate. All we ask is that you postpone the decision on this law for a month or two to allow the experts, the top experts who have prepared this law to come along with the experts of the government and Parliament and with the leadership of political parties and once again shake the necessity of adopting this law. For years, all political parties have agreed that the electoral law should be amended, so we have decided by Slovenian seniors, not only the Association of Retired Associations, to collect signatures for all senior organizations in Slovenia, we have decided to ask top experts to write a law that will be the most appropriate of people. I would like to inform you that the law has been rejected by 9 votes and 8 against, where you have proved that you are not united in whether this law should be rejected or not. However, a few of you said that you did not have time to study the law, but a large majority of you do not think that you were at the June session, a public presentation that was considered the first reading, where our experts also showed a computer simulation of what this law brings. Why would I say that? One of the government experts' objections was that simulations should be made. If we were invited, we'd come to them and show these simulations. I'm asking you to reconsider. There is no higher aim than the opinion of the population of Slovenia, the election of Slovenia. Don't despise the law-makers we felt at the board meeting. Listen to us! Look, I'm sure you're all unhappy because the National Assembly has such a low rating. We would like to help you to make the National Assembly more effective because we urgently need you. You are in need of all generations in Slovenia, especially those who have been hit by the current life in Slovenia. Please reconsider. Give us a two-month delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u3	Would you like a word from the government? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, ministerial assembly, distinguished representative of the motioners! In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal by the proposal to withdraw the law from today's agenda. I must say that my colleagues also supported the solutions proposed by more than 5,000 voters at the committee meeting. As I am informed, some coalition Members have also supported the solutions. Unfortunately, however, there is a huge difference between words and actions in this coalition as in some previous ones, even in those before it, and also in Pahoreva. We believe that amendments to the Electoral Law to the National Assembly are necessary. We believe that these things need to be settled as soon as possible. I also do not think that it is necessary for the National Assembly, by rejecting this law, to take note of the rejection of this law by closing the door and to prevent this process. While we support the majority electoral system, the two-way majority electoral system, which best reflects people's will in the neighbourhoods, ensures that every Member's side of the House is able to ensure that any Member, even if such matters are regulated, can be called off directly. This electoral proposal, proposed by the signatories or citizens, is an approximation of this, a better step towards this, is not comprehensive, is not perfect, but we believe that changes in the direction of improving electoral legislation, transparency and strengthening accountability must be made. The National Assembly, for such and other reasons, is now engaged in a whole series of small matters with regard to the election of various officials. Actually, it's a minor matter. The fundamentals, and this is the law on elections to the National Assembly, and we don't do it in some serious, comprehensive way. I propose that others also support the proposal of the electorate and the electorate, that the item withdraws from the agenda and that an additional debate is also possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u5	The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, president of the National Assembly, esteemed choir! In fact, in our Group of Members, we respect the assessment of the current proposal, as presented by the mother's working body. This assessment was that the proposal for a law was in fact inadequate at this proposed point, for two reasons. One is substantive and the other is legal. This means that the proposed amendment is not substantively comprehensive enough for such important legislation and, on the other hand, it is both legal and constitutionally inconsistent. What was the assessment of the parent working body is that we absolutely need an appropriate change in electoral legislation, but the approach to this amendment must be taken in a wise, comprehensive and, above all, inclusive manner. What does that mean? This means that we need to take enough time to gain different substantive emphasis, aspects, including problems, why and at what points electoral legislation needs to be changed. And that we will gain this not only by the selected stakeholders or by some political parties, but in the widest possible both political and professional consensus. From this point of view, as we say, we estimate that this current proposal does not meet the above-mentioned conditions, and at the same time, it is within our constituency that we commit ourselves, on the basis of our electoral programme, to make a comprehensive change to the entire electoral legislation and to all the legislation that comes directly or indirectly to this electoral legislation. For this reason, the SMC Group today is voting against the withdrawal of this item from the agenda, but at the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to invite the ZDUS proposers of this proposed amendment to actively participate in the upcoming legislative procedures that we will also organise in connection with this legislation by the SMC Group, and I believe that the coalitions as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u7	Any other representatives? For the United Left. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. As you know, the United Left has come out of civil society, has a dialogue with civil society, sometimes we are also critical of proposals. I already said at that session that it got messy so that there was a message from the current coalition, citizens and citizens, because we love you, you have this opportunity to propose something, but in fact we do not take you too seriously. I agree with most of what colleague Lipicer said, but I disagree in the performance. This is precisely why we must continue with what Mrs Kožuhova has presented and we will vote in favour of this withdrawal proposal with the United Left. However, I fear that the coalition will vote headlessly and that unfortunately we will be defeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u9	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u10	Good afternoon. This one, though, was nice of my predecessor to come from civil society. In fact, in a way, we all come from civil society, only when we enter parliament do we become politicians and then it is over. And these were the words of Mr Duck, so we cannot hide behind civil society. In our Group of Members, we will not support this proposal for at least three reasons. For the first time, because there is really no parliamentary practice of withdrawing proposals and not ending without such an evaluation by the home working committee and also having a thorough discussion. I myself have been active on this committee, and I can say that I have listed at least 10 reasons why this marriage is not good. It is also true that we are presenting a different view of salvation. This proposal, which has been proposed, seems to us, of course, more inclined to the majority system than to the combined proportional system, as it was from the debate itself. I will never personally support the majority of myself, unlike colleagues from the SDS, who, of course, claim that this system is the best. I will also not support the proposal that each voter has two votes and that we create a myth of two different fellow Members who will be elected because they are selected in a direct way and one on the basis of a list of political parties. And we'll have first-class and second-class. The ones who will count how many votes they have won. One will be able to call off, and the other won't be possible. In short, this system doesn't work very well. And the third reason that is more important is that the debate on this will not be over, certainly not. The debate will continue, because exactly on the basis of 5,000 signatures and proposals it is more than clear, and we all have seen for many years that a change is needed. But the question is, what is the change? The proposers are convinced that their proposal is the best. I'm sure he's good enough to open up some serious questions about where the weaknesses of the existing system are. We are confident that this problem can be resolved differently, so we will propose a system that will allow for the maintenance of a proportional system, but with a much clearer possibility of direct decision-making by Members, which is by a stronger preferential vote and the abolition of electoral thefts. That is why, of course, we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u11	Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups? There's no replica at this point. I ask Dr. Matejo Kožuh Novak, as representative of the motioners, whether he wishes to further explain this withdrawal. No, no, no. If so, I conclude by presenting my views on the withdrawal proposal and moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the ninth item from the agenda of the meeting. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, voting 28, 28 against 53. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are still moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I proposed to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly should be extended by a list of candidates and candidates for the Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the proposal by letter dated 12. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its However, as the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Miroslav Cerar, today has withdrawn the proposal for a Minister for Economic Development and Technology, this matter has become irrelevant and the Assembly will therefore consider the envisaged enlargement as a proposal for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. Would you like a word from the government? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much. First of all, I cannot be surprised that the Government does not have a position on the proposal it proposes. At the same time, I would like to point out that today we have the first question of the delegation right in connection with the Government's human resources policy. Just today, you introduced us to two steps. One candidate for minister and the boss of Owl. As far as the economy is concerned, it can be seen here that Mr Mir Cerar's team has virtually no human resources pool in this area. It appears that there is no solution to the management of this resource, which many believe is extremely important, and that there is no great ambition or solution. It is unacceptable for the Government to face such problems in the first two months of this area. We now have a third or we will have a fourth candidate for Minister of Economy, and this is still assigned to someone. I think the team that went to the election campaign was doing it more in a pierra way. So, it was important to win the election, it was important to bring sufficient support, but when the policy of the winning team is operationalised, there is obviously not much to be done here. Trends are bad, that's for sure. What perspectives there appears to be in this area. There are no systemic measures in the field of economics. Also, what you are now proposing with the rebalancing and those package laws that belong to it is essentially only to extend the most unpopular law adopted by the Yangtze government. There are no other systemic solutions. I don't think this is how things can be solved. Nonsense is more than enough. Nevertheless, Mr President of the Government, Mr President of the National Assembly, we will support the proposal to extend the agenda because we know that the government cannot function with the starches. But the proposaler is responsible for the scaffolding, and this is the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u13	Does any other representative of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, no, no. I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 4. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The electoral extension will be considered as the 16th item of the agenda on Wednesday, 19. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference and with the addition adopted. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 79 votes against 3. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the agenda for the 2nd meeting of the Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written applications for the record thirty-seven questions sent. The order for the question to be asked shall be set in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. If the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within thirty days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dušan Marmor, Minister for Finance and Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Janko Weber, Minister for Defence, from 17:00 onward, and Dr Miroslav Cerar, President of the Government, from 13:00 onward. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar. Mr Jože Tanko will ask him the question first. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Before the elections, you very much exposed ethics, respect for the institutions and rules of the rule of law, stressing the zero rate of tolerance for social biases, particularly corruption. The spin doctors from your back managed to sell you in the polls as a trusted political brand. You have also entered these passwords into a coalition contract, and problems are emerging in the implementation. You've already solved dozens of personnel you haven't reported violating the rule of law, so laws and other acts, and you haven't even seen them unethical or corrupt. This applies both to the dismissed Director General of the Venegger Police and to the Chief of General Staff of Christmas or to the replaced Head of OSCE Pernet. However, for the new director of Sova, who resigned today, the government appointed a person who did not meet the conditions. The opposite is your Minister of Justice, Mag. Goran Klemenčič. Its work at the head of the KPK was assessed by the Court of Auditors and found that eight laws, three regulations and that contracts were concluded without an adequate legal basis at the time of its management. For example, the restructuring of the KPC premises of EUR 22,000 was not planned in the financial plan. The KPK also paid the contractor for more than EUR 11 000 additional works which were not in the contract and were not signed or an annex for this. In 2011, KPK acquired almost €18,000 of movable property, which was also not planned in the 2011 financial plan. Only in these three cases did the KPC illegally spend more than 50,000 euros. It was a violation of both the Public Finance Act and the law on the implementation of the budget. Dear President of the Government, what are the reasons why you have so radically changed your views in such a short time, which you have only just a few months ago, just as unreservedly defended when you replace persons who do not receive bad work, violations of the rules of the rule of law or of ethics, on the other hand, you propose to serve as a person who does not meet the conditions of the job or who are recognized as serial violators of the law? I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u15	Mr President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u16	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr Tanko, I am answering your question as follows. If I consider some insinuations that, of course, do not hold, such as spin doctors and the like, I would say that the Government's recruitment has so far been perfectly normal and in accordance with the principles that we as a party and which are still advocated by the coalition in the government. We are trying, and we are actually doing this, to the places where real people are to be called competent personnel, i.e. professionally trained personnel with integrity, and those who are trustworthy. If you'll just allow me some information. The main reason for this recruitment was in the initial period of the government in many cases for the staff involved in the so-called mandate of the official, but it is indeed a matter of confidence. So, it's an entrapment in the cabinets. Here we have initially reduced the scope of possible employment in the cabinets of ministries and the cabinet of the Government. Before that was 6, now we've gone to a maximum of five employees of this kind. Here we have employed as normal as any government of people who are entrusted with trust, which are competent enough and so on. Then we were very careful that we did not simply go into some unreasonable frame of mind, as you said, not to trade competent, reliable professional people, and we made urgent changes only where we thought this was essential for the normal functioning of this government and coalition. So far, out of 71 possible jobs within the government, ministries and cabinets of the President, we have held 31 seats, following these criteria that I have mentioned. When you mention some of the recruitments, such as the replacement of Mr Veniger, Mr Bozic and so on, I would only explain in these cases that Mr Veniger has expressed himself professionally about this replacement, that he is experiencing it properly. He's decided to retire, he's got a pretty high retirement rate that our system allows, and I think it's over 70,000 euros, because that's the law, otherwise it can't be done. However, he simply agreed to this solution without any problem and agreed with this possibility, which the Minister has in this case, within one year, to place as Director General of the Police a person with whom he will be able to cooperate, who in this case is a person worthy of all confidence, professionally, by integrity and otherwise very well accepted both on the part of the police and the public. It was similar to the process of replacing Chief General Staff, where this replacement took place in an agreement with the current Chief, who expressed his wish to go to another post abroad. The Minister found out after the previous consultation and appropriate explanations, and there is no dispute here as well. All these procedures, as well as the others mentioned, have been conducted legally. Let me mention this, because you mentioned the Minister of Magic. Zoran Klemenčič, you have previously reported to him, i.e. your client, the irregularities that the Court of Auditors is expected to find regarding the operation of the KPK. After a thorough examination of all the documentation, the Court of Auditors reports and the reply that is written and available to everyone to see it, it is very clear that more than 90%, both in the approximate assessment, of the irregularities that you are reading to Mr Goran Klemenčič and his group, i.e. members of the KPK, have not occurred and is not due to his mandate. These were irregularities that his commission, so to speak, inherited from the previous commission, immediately detected them, in some way reported them, committed them, and disposed of most of them in a very short time and later. And those remaining few percent, if I may say so, of these irregularities, were again due to the effects of the previous periods, which they had to face in this new commission, which is well explained in writing in the material that the ministry or the minister himself will present. It follows from this that in fact the current Minister, the then President of the PSC, is not possible [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] or reading it here some illegality. So I conclude that they simply do not hold these claims, the Government of the Republic of Moldova is in line with the law, in accordance with the views or principles that we have advocated, both in the [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u17	Complementary response, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. You say you've been changing people, you've appointed competent people to these places. It's as if these people you replaced weren't competent. In view of the fact that you have already mentioned your fellow Minister, Mr Weber, he said he is offering a formula for exchanges among other ministers of the government. So it's not such a brilliant starting point and a way that you said it, but it's simply about replacing by force some kind of pressure. However, as for Mr Klemenčič, in the case I have mentioned, I have listed only the items relating to his mandate and the decision of the KPK premises equipment carried out by the Commission to prevent corruption following a Senate decision led by Mr Klemenčič. You can see this in the Court of Auditors report, there are several of these cases written there, 2.28 2.B, 2.28 2C, 2.82E. These are all things that are exclusively linked to Mr Klemenčič's mandate and to his Senate. But it's probably about soundproofing the premises where his office was, and it's probably where the hearings took place. And there is something else, Mr Klemenčič has forgotten to report his wife's businesses to the Commission to prevent corruption. One of these companies was established in November 2011, and you must have overlooked the deep mandate of the Senate led by Klemenčič. It is probably difficult to explain that the President of the Senate does not report to himself or herself companies that [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] operating restrictions. [[…]] I guess we all know that. I must say that in this part your answer does not correspond to the actual state and report of the Court of Auditors, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u19	Complementary response, Prime Minister Miroslav Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I'll just fill in for a little while. With regard to competences, it is clear that in every sphere of government, public administration, there are also more people who can be competent to perform a particular function, such as the Member of Parliament, the Secretary of State, the Chief of Staff or the Director of Police. That's perfectly clear. This is about sometimes, and as a rule, it also happens after government changes, there are some new circumstances, there are some new political orientations within the government, so, above all, the minister, including the whole government, has to look at who is the most qualified person within the framework of the highly-called competences, who can act in a consistent, competent, coherent manner in accordance with such a government policy. This is not about anyone who has been replaced in any way in this case and who has performed another, in these cases very important, function, or, say, went as with Mr Venegar for retirement. It's not that they wouldn't be competent. It was easy for the competent ministers to see that, in order to implement the continuation of this government's policy, which continues the country's policy in some context, they could be better suited at this point by another person. But like I said, in these cases that you mentioned, there was a whole agreement, and I would say some substitutions that followed some wishes. In one case, there was a later retirement; in another case, the former Chief of Staff actually moved or went to another very important and honorable job. With regard to Mr Klemenčič, our Minister, I would just like to point out once again that the report, which is in writing and is, of course, available to you at the request of Mr Klemenčič, is very clear why even those minor violations, as I say, which have continued from the previous mandate and have remained in the mandate which he has taken over with his leadership in the framework of Mr Klemenčič, do not constitute so many serious or significant infringements as to be justified and justified in questioning his integrity or his ethics. So I stand in the position I've expressed. I have no doubt that Minister Klemenčič is a person of integrity who has demonstrated this over and over again in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u21	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you very much. With the reply of the President of the Government, I am not satisfied, so I propose that, in accordance with Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly should hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. I have put here a rather clear question of changing the criteria. You have gone practically all this evolution, Mr President of the Government, from expressing zero tolerance to disrespecting the rule of law, to corruption, to illegality. In the case of Mr Klemenčič, you have very relativised this matter, even now. Mr Klemenčič, when it came to finding the bad part of his predecessor, as President of the Commission's anti-corruption committee, did not act against the one who did this illegality. At the same time, according to a report by the Court of Auditors, he himself carried out a number of procedures beyond the legal basis, past the Public Finance Act, past the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. More than €50,000 in one business year was the decision of the KPK, which was not covered by the procedure and the law. At the same time, this gentleman, at the head of the KPK, has imposed large terms of office or fines for the infringements he has identified in these controls. At the same time. And now we ask ourselves, because we can ask ourselves what integrity a person who has not acted against the infringements if he holds what you said, Mr President, that these were violations of his predecessor, against his predecessor. The Court of Auditors wrote what, you say it's only 10%. But he did. But it's not a zero rate, what you're saying, tolerance. At the same time, he will also punish those who he has processed in his examinations. What a testimony it has made to someone who sits down, and you propose it at zero tolerance to all mistakes, to the post of Minister of Justice. You have covered, Mr President of the Government, on point one, the consistency of none. A zero degree of tolerance, if you said it wasn't all his, you took it down next time. I don't understand why you're pointing out some things that you break in the first step. Also when I appoint Mr. Daddy as the head of the Owl. The Lord did not fulfill the conditions for appointment, but you took it away. So what are the criteria? The ones from the pre-election period or the practitioner? This is what you use to achieve the goals you set yourself. I propose that we hold a debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u23	Mr Jože Tanko, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 November 2014, in the framework of the votes. The second question will be raised by Mr Luka Mesec to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! My question concerns the sale of Dars, which was recently revealed in Slovenian media. On 7 November, Tednik Mladina revealed that officials of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance, as instructed by the Administration of the Slovenian State Holding, were already preparing for the sale of the Company for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. The proceedings are contrary to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which states in Article 84 that it must give the National Assembly a green light for all privatisation procedures. From the minutes of the meeting, which was published in Youth, so-called "Dars Working Group", 9. Ten. In 2014, it is clear that the SDH administration, in cooperation with these two ministries, is preparing proposals for regulations and decisions that, for the first time, a new concessionaire would be eligible for compensation for building land; secondly, non-roads in the management of Dars would be converted to to tolls or transferred to the Slovenian Directorate for Roads; thirdly, at the same time, a new road law would allow an increase in the price of vignettes. All these activities are a serious violation of the aforementioned Article of the Slovenian State Holding Act. For with societies like Dars, as I pointed out at the outset, he must not be in possession without the consent of the National Assembly. We therefore note that the SDH administration and all those involved have exceeded their powers and that there is also a clear violation of the separation of the management function, which is in the hands of SDH, from the regulatory function of the state exercised by the ministries and of the Government, which is also justified in the SDH law. It is an act that is harmful to the state and to the citizens. Everything that is unprofitable would have been transferred to the country and everything that is profitable would have been sold. They would lower the new owner's taxes and raise revenues at the expense of citizens and drivers. In this way, the new owner would recover his investment in profit within a few years and the citizens would end up losing. We are currently following a similar example in Croatia because 500 000 signatures were collected against the granting of motorways to concessions. Therefore, I ask you, Mr President of the Government, the following questions: First time. Are you familiar with the work of the Dars working group? After it was released in the media, did you take action and abolish it? Another time. How will you act against those responsible for the infringements? Third time. What's going on with the so-called "guarantee law" Dars, which according to our data, the Ministry of Finance has been preparing since 2013? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u25	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u26	Dear Member of the Moon! Let me say that fortunately, the media reports, as you've gathered them, do not hold. If they did, I'd be worried too. Let me make sure nobody sells Dars first. There is no legal basis for this, nor has our government so far expressed any such purpose or debated it. The fact is that in October 2013, the previous government formed a special coordination group, a link between representatives of two ministries, namely finance and infrastructure, and at the time, the fate of the current SDH, when this group was actually engaged as a form of work, not as a formal working group, to examine the further development of Darsa. This made sense, of course, because, like any important institution, Dars also needs a strategy for the future long-term and is doing some kind of vision. And it is true here that among the options that have been studied, there was also a privatisation scenario and a projected time course of activity, which was also published in the media. From here on out, the matter never went away. The fact is that it has already been mentioned in this particular paper, and this has unfortunately been released by the media, that for any kind of capital investment available, I am talking about Dars, we need the consent of the National Assembly here. Of course, this was not the case, nor did the government later point to such a thing or cause such a thing to happen. Of course, our government has never discussed this before. We need to understand that such discussions make some sense, as Dars also has some types of assets that are somewhat unusual. If I mention one such case. For example, according to some unusual rules, in which it will certainly have to be deepened, Dars in the past had to build many things if he wanted to build state highways. For example, if he wanted to gain a certain agreement in a congregation, he had to build a primary school for that congregation. Today the primary school is owned by Darsa and it is certainly important to determine whether this makes sense. Does it not make sense that this part of the state property is transferred to the sphere of the local community, or that any other part that has come into the property of the state through Darsa is also needed. I would point out, however, that any process of privatisation of Dars, i.e. the availability of state property, requires a decision of the National Assembly. The government has not yet discussed this. We have a decision of the National Assembly on the privatisation of 15 companies. This is a decision from the previous term of office. Dars isn't involved in this. Let me stress that, in fact, that coordination, which then continued in the sense of not a working group, but in terms of the form of mutual consultation, coordination between the three institutions, has never led the Government to address the matter in this form, which you have learned from the media in this way. At this point, I would have completed this answer here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u27	Request for a reply, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I think we're talking about the decision of 10. Ten. 2013 which essentially gave SDH the authority to draw up a script or some strategy for the further development of Darsa. Here the first problem is that the strategy was not prepared within the agreed time frame. The decision expired 31. 12. In 2013, while the strategy under which SDH member Matthew Runjak was signed came later. This is the first problem, which is said to be outside the scope of the decision. The second problem is that in this strategy its purpose is clear, the purpose is to sell Darsa. If we go to look, we will notice, not only that this is clearly defined there, but we will also note further from the minutes published that the Australian Macquarie Group interested in selling Darsa has already been at the first meetings that this working group is already preparing certain interventions into legislation, let's say an amendment to Article 15 of the Dars Act is being prepared to justify compensation for the use of building land. In addition, a proposal for a decision by the Government on the transfer of non-road roads to the Roads Directive is being prepared and a proposal for a tolling law is being prepared to allow for the raising of tolls for the new owner. In short, interventions into legislation and privatisation procedures are in some way already under way, as is already in the process of negotiating with a company interested in taking over. So I would like to ask you again: Will you stop this group, and who will be responsible for these violations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u29	Complementary response, Prime Minister Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much. If I were to express myself in a graphic way, I would say that, as Prime Minister of the Government, I do not believe that the country should sell Slovenian motorways. Formally, institutionally speaking, let me repeat it, it's neither triggered nor the process of selling Darsa is under way. As we know, it is in the privatisation process following the decision of the National Assembly under the previous mandate of 15 companies. There's no Dars among them. The current government has not considered anything that could lead to his wanting to sell Dars. It is true, however, that the Government will develop a public investment management strategy. This strategy is intensive work and is expected to have a draft framework or plan for this strategy at the government meeting by the end of the year. As you know, the coalition comprising this government advocates that strategically important infrastructure facilities are not subject to privatisation. And it is very important to stress this, because it is also possible to count a large proportion of the assets we have over Dars among some basic infrastructure, with certain exceptions and specialities, as I said. Let me reiterate that if a debate ever takes place in the same position as in the working forms of some professional opinions, the government will certainly come from this political conviction that I have announced. It will, of course, examine this as well as all other aspects of the availability of state assets in the future in accordance with the strategy that it will consider on a proposal from the Government and also adopt the National Assembly. None of these things will be going through this well-respected assembly in further procedures for the disposal of state property, so I think that there is a lot of safeguards here that could even be put in the right place if something like this were to happen. As far as the vignettes you mentioned are concerned, let me say that the law you mentioned is the Property Act, changing due to the transposition of the new European directives, while the regulation of vignettes is actually a matter of the regulatory domain on the part of the Government. Vinete regulates the Government with regulations, while this is about amending the law to transpose the new European directives into our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u31	Gradually, Mr. Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u32	On the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this point be addressed specifically in the debate of the National Assembly, with a view to examining the functioning of this Working Group and to submitting a proposal for its termination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u33	Mr Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 November 2014, in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the third question raised by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Honorable Council of Ministers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Prime Minister! In Slovenia, in the last year, we spent as much as 3.2 billion principally on taxpayers' money to achieve the capital adequacy of Slovenian state-owned banks. And the size of the bank hole is obviously not the biggest problem. The problem is that the bank hole can be repeated or repeated. Even with such high payments to banks, the aim of the resolution of the banking system has obviously not been achieved. The European Central Bank has recently published the results of a comprehensive assessment of bank operations as part of the preparations for the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism for the banking system, as well as in order to increase confidence in the euro banking system. The stress tests were not carried out by two Slovenian banks, Nova Ljubljanska banka and Novo Kreditna banka Maribor. Slovenian banks have noted, this is now very important, the maximum reduction in capital adequacy following a stress test with assumptions from an unfavourable scenario. Our state banking system is extremely vulnerable and the conditions of indebtedness for the business sector remain unfavourable. So what about banks that don't lend to economies where new value is created? We believe that this Gordy knot can only be cut off by the prior privatisation of both banks and thus ensure the efficient management of the banks. Any delay in this area means an urgent new and new expenditure for the state budget and, consequently, fewer and fewer resources for education, health and other public services and development, especially painful austerity measures. Dear Mr. President of the Government, I ask you: What plans does your government have regarding the privatisation of all state-owned banks or majority state-owned banks? Above all, we are interested in a concrete privatisation plan, namely the search for the responsible owner of the New Ljubljana Bank and the completion of the sale process of the New Bank of Maribor, as well as all other banks. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u35	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u36	Dear Mr. Ambassador Horvath! With regard to your question, let me first answer that we are all concerned about the results of the last stress tests together. Of course, we are aware that, for certain reasons, the methodology for checking Slovenian banks was even a little more difficult than checking banks in other countries. We are also aware of the facts that experts have found that some positive effects of recapitalisation of our banks are coming with delay, so that they will only be visible in the coming months, but that is no excuse. Both banks didn't undergo a stress test. Despite the fact that they will not have to be recapitalised from the budget this time, it is said from the taxpayer's money directly, but with the retained profits they will provide sufficient resources to recapitalise themselves, this is a cause for concern. The concern of our government, the concern of all citizens. Of course, the government in this area will do everything it can. It is true, however, that the Government does not want to be explicit about this in advance, as it must examine all possibilities within its powers and possible procedures. We know that the government's key commitment is to ensure the sound functioning of the banking system, that it wants to operate in a good way in the economy, including a commitment to respect the principles of corporate governance, so as to leave it to the competent institutions to act in accordance with the powers of the banks and the supervisory boards, so that it can only do what is possible where it can indirectly. With regard to your question, in particular, let me say that the sale process of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the NKBM is led by the Slovenian State Holding on the basis of the already mentioned decision on the sale of 15 state-owned enterprises. And this process of selling NKBM is expected to be completed by the end of the year. Therefore, it is particularly sensitive where it is necessary to understand that this sale can take place in a very short time. Therefore, it is necessary to be even more careful not to do something that would reduce the customer’s interest or adversely affect the price so that, for example, the price falls. I would point out, however, that it is absolutely in the key interest of the State, and the Government also points out that there is an appropriate price to be achieved here, that the matter is not sold below the price to be avoided, and I would like to stress in particular the corrupt practices, that the risks here need to be examined absolutely in this process in the opposite and in the short term to ensure such sales in order to make sense. With regard to the New Bank of Ljubljana, I would like to mention that, as you know, this bank needs to reduce the current state ownership to 25% and one share by the end of 2017. Regarding the SID of the Bank, if you asked for others, you know that this is a state-owned bank which is not intended for privatisation, it is a bank with a special function of promoting development. As you know, you mentioned, at least I think the question is, two banks, the Factor Bank and the Probank are in the process of controlling liquidation. With regard to the Bank and Banka Celje, a merger is planned after the last recapitalisation to achieve some synergies that could lead to less benefits for the country when both banks operate individually. This is where the activities take place. The country wants to, so, of course, our government not only wants these recapitalisations, which have been truly enormous in recent years, to prove successful, as I have indicated, at least in those aspects where we can rightly hope and expect it. However, we also want these banks to begin to carry out their basic function to a greater extent, that is to say, lending to the economy. This, of course, will be highlighted repeatedly in the future or advocated for this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u37	Request for a response, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you too, Mr President of the Government, for these answers. I have no reason not to believe that your concern is sincere, concern at the latest published stress tests in Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Bank of Maribor. We ask ourselves, although we see on the one hand the profits of these banks, but we know that from this profit we taxpayers will actually have nothing. Not a cent will come from this profit to the state budget. And another matter, Mr President, we would not like to be in a group of eight countries where the country has the majority ownership of banks. These countries are Sri Lanka, Kenya, Cuba, Ethiopia, Syria and so on. So none of the European countries, except Slovenia. I think there's concern here, we can share it. When we talk about our development backlog behind the average of the European Union, this was 10% somewhere in 2008, now the development backlog behind the average of the European Union is almost 20%, which shows that we need a new economic policy in Slovenia. We need a new business model in Slovenia. And that's not gonna happen without the resolution of the banking system. Of course, it will also not be without the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy, without improving the business environment and so on. Mr President of the Government, I would still like to ask you, if I may, to ask for a more precise timetable, what you will actually do now with the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, because, as things stand and show, we can conclude that the bank hole is already being created. And that's going to be another blow to Slovenian taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u39	Complementary response, Prime Minister Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Let me first point out that there is a European commitment that cannot pay off the profits of the banks receiving the aid in 2014. I probably forgot to mention that earlier. As far as the government's commitment is concerned, I would say that, with the result of the stress tests, both the top of the coalition and the government have actually accepted a critical assessment of this situation. Within the framework of his mandate, the Minister of Finance carried out a specific consultation and inquiry that we could have been more familiar with the matter. Above all, I would stress that the Government has not yet held a formal debate on this. When this debate is held at the government's meeting, then I will also be able to present the government's formal positions. However, I can say that opinions have also been presented to the public of all the key stakeholders of this government, i.e. coalition partners. I myself have responded with great concern and the need to act accordingly. However, you must understand that such measures, which must be very thoughtful, which must take into account, as I said, the principle of corporate governance and, on the other hand, the powers of the Government, should also be very careful and precise so that this does not affect the credibility of Slovenia in this economic, banking and financial environment, because we know that there are positive trends in Slovenia at present both in the economic field and even if we look now in terms of taking account of these imbalances, we can make a lot of progress here. It is now very important how they respond abroad, from rating houses to other players. Therefore, as we say, some reckless moves must not be made here, but absolute determination must be made, and the Government will take all those decisions that are necessary here in the future within its powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u41	Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you very much. An important message to the Slovenian public from our dialogue with the Prime Minister of the Government is that, despite the fact that NLB and NKBM are doing business with profits, the taxpayers or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will not and must not have anything. So much for what it's like to own state property. Mr President of the Government, given that this government has only been operating in a very deconstructed composition for sixty days, my procedural proposal will not, but I predict that we really expect a clear policy within a very short period of time, what this government will do with the privatisation of the Slovenian banking system and also with the rest, especially with economic operators in large state ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u43	First of all, I warn you, this was a little abuse of this procedural institute. For the fourth question, please Dr. Simono Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Only this year have we witnessed five major floods and natural disasters in Slovenia. This issue is therefore one of the highest priorities in the country at present. It is faced literally through the struggle for survival and existential security by affected individuals and their families. Once again, the strength and importance of the system of volunteering and assistance has been demonstrated. As did the question of the role of the State and its action in the context of flood security and protection. According to the apparent situation in the affected areas in recent decades, there is the impression that so far the country has responded unsatisfactoryly to the needs and expectations of people in addressing the problem of flood regulation. So I ask you: How will the 12th Government of the Republic of Slovenia take action to remedy the consequences, in this case already five major floods this year, and in particular what will it do for greater anti-flood security in the future? Is there the political will of this government to face the issue? Who's inside the government? In what way, or by what concrete measures, and within what time limits, will all be competent to deal with this problem? Will this government, contrary to its experience so far, identify and identify the holders of responsibility for the implementation, and even more for the non-executed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u45	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Simon Kustec Lipicer. Dear assembly, allow me once again to express my sincere thanks to all representatives of civil protection, firefighters, representatives of the Slovenian Army, volunteers of all kinds, and especially to citizens and citizens who have worked so hard and are still trying to help all those who have been so deeply affected this year and also now in recent events with these floods and other trials. I can say that we are now witnessing an extremely rapid response to these events and that, in fact, luckily, we carried it away in this last case without fatalities, although unfortunately with tremendous material damage and with severe human destiny. The government responded very intensively to all these field visits, the competent ministers were on the ground, and I was alone in floods and other areas. Last Sunday, as you know, I convened an extraordinary consultation of the Government, invited competent experts in the field of water knowledge, civil protection and other related areas. After an in-depth discussion, where we have found how future weather changes will take place in Slovenia and how they will affect Slovenia, we have unfortunately found that this exchange of dry and floody periods, i.e. abundant rainfall on the one hand, on the other, droughts, can be repeated in some way. That can still be a problem. Slovenia is also, so to speak, receiving these weather changes in this negative sense. All of this requires urgent action. Regrettably, we have faced the situation that, in fact, there has been a significant understatement in this area over the past 20 years, so I immediately decided and requested that by 27 November this month, the competent ministry, which will be in a working group that is now in operation, develop appropriate grounds to provide me with an action plan, as soon as possible in the coming months and by half of 2015 with those most urgent interventions across Slovenia, throughout all of these 61 flood zones, as well as, where appropriate, to ensure that the most urgent intervention measures, from the cleaning of the tracks, to the construction of these smaller embankments, to the redirection of watercourses, where possible. In short, everything that has not been done in recent years and should be done. We will therefore discuss this. 11. or immediately after this, also in the Government and taking into account difficult situations, as you know that for several months only in winter it is possible to clean up watercourses, now and later, not for any specific reasons relating to the protection of animal species or the like, which is a particular problem. And on the other hand, it is not possible to build certain objects in these winter months, but only in the spring months. Taking all this into account, the government will look forward to the fact that these urgent projects, which do not require such a large financial contribution, are, say, some 10 000 euros to say 100 or 200 000 euros, are being implemented. Then, at the same time, we will monitor very intensively whether the competent authorities are drawing up this flood risk reduction plan or are preparing an appropriate strategy for this. Let me also mention last week, when I spoke to the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, that one of the key infrastructure and environmental projects we are planning in Slovenia is anti-flood protection, and that we are thinking of putting it in the so-called Juncker programme, the European Commission's programme, which is expected to bring 300 billion new investments and thus adequately distributed across countries. And we have highlighted this as one of the two most crucial projects for Slovenia, so that the government is absolutely paying full attention to this problem, and in the future we will keep an eye on how the competent authorities carry out these matters. We will try to provide greater resources, because we know that with greater prevention we will save more, not only in terms of human lives and security of the population and property, which is most important, but also in terms of calculating the costs that we have in the form of damage after these many captures, especially floods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u47	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mag. Branko Grims asks the Minister of Finance Dusan Marble, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Over the past years, I have repeatedly pointed out that excise policy is flawed, which, in loading fuel, petroleum derivatives and, of course, also fuel oil, is significantly higher than the neighbouring country. In the last period following recent prices on the world market and the price changes that followed, the situation has already become quite tragic. Differences against neighbouring Austria or Croatia are now such that in individual transport companies it is known that drivers must come back with loaded tanks from Austria or Croatia, because even if they are tanked in their home country. The difference in the price of fuel oil, now the season is coming up, in a few days there will be a cold wave, so if we talk about conventional fuels, the difference is 5 to 10% towards neighbouring Austria and the difference in the fuel oil is more than 25%. Of course to the detriment of Slovenia, Slovenian taxpayers or buyers. Thus, in Croatia it costs a litre of heating oil below 80 cents, and for a similar price you can find it in Austria, which, by the way, has significantly higher wages and a significantly higher standard of living, in Slovenia the price of heating oil exceeds one euro. So what does that do in practice? People talking to each other along the northern border, if we go to Austria for shopping, which then has cumulative effects, we don't want to go, but because they still have to fill the tank, and if possible some other hand of burning oil comes back over because it's such a price difference, it's all paid for what it buys. And the money goes abroad again. If the difference in excise duties were minimal or our prices were comparable to at least these two neighbouring countries, then the behaviour of the buyers would also be different. Both in Slovenia and foreigners. Foreigners also have, and this is generally known, some of these statements you could see in the media, such as when it comes to professional carriers, instructions that they must tank in Austria and that next time they can tank again in Croatia, otherwise it is sanctioned. Thus, such a excise policy is obviously burdensome, is counter-developmental and means the outflow of Slovenian money abroad in a way that could easily be avoided by a more reasonable excise policy. That's why I'm asking: How long will such a excise policy take place? Will the Government take action and adapt at least to neighbouring Austria? I expect, given the Minister's absence, an oral response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u49	Dr Stanislavi Setnikar Cankar, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, will ask Dr. Matej T. Vatovec the next question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister for Education, Science and Sport! At the time of this year's elections, there was an unloving incident in Cyprus involving public schools and schools and copier city authorities, but I believe that this was not an isolated case in Slovenia. On 2 October there was an action in Cyprus, organised by the Koran Society of Youth Friends at the sixtieth anniversary of the establishment and during the Week of Childhood. Let me also point out that the week of the child was officially held between 6 and 12 October this year. The event would not be wrong if the event did not include a meeting in the central city market where the passwords and visual features of the mayor's client were visible. At this meeting, the mayor, who was also a candidate for mayor, also addressed the children. The organizers also shared white caps with children, which included two symbols that were a key part of the graphic image of the two parties' campaign. The event was also good media coverage, with photographers, recorders and even robot helicopters with cameras. The first images were published on the website of one of the parties running for the elections. It is my opinion that in this case there has been a serious abuse of children, and I am concerned about the conduct of responsible persons in public educational institutions and also of teaching staff who have agreed to such a breakdown of events. We know that Article 72 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education provides that the operation of political parties is prohibited in schools and schools, but that article can also be read very narrowly or literally and that "in kindergartens" means, in fact, in the physical premises of public educational institutions. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Minister: Are you familiar with this event? Do you know if there were more such events during local elections in Slovenia? How will the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in this place act to protect the interests of children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u51	The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanislava Setnikar Cankar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u52	Dear Dr. Matthew Vatovec, thank you so much for your question. We're familiar with this. It was addressed by two sectors for primary education and kindergartens and for secondary education and also referred the matter to the competent inspectorate. As far as legislation is concerned, you have already mentioned an article of the law, which is perfectly clear that no activity should be carried out in public institutions, kindergartens, primary schools with which children should be indoctrinated with political content. This case is somewhat specific because the event planned under the annual work plan of the school was obviously used for political purposes. The inspectorate, in the composition of the Ministry, has not yet made all its definitive findings, as it still collects some information. On the second part of your question, however, I would answer by saying that one of the priorities of the ministry between the three priorities we set ourselves in 2015 is also to amend legislation. We anticipate that the working groups starting with their work will also include this issue and may try to find a solution in the context of changes in the law, which will also define such events more precisely. What are the other priorities where these issues will also be addressed? I mentioned a change in the legislation, the curiosity and the external evaluation. I believe that, in the context of this external evaluation, it will also be possible to define some positions that will allow the directors responsible for working in these public institutions to be properly identified in such cases. We certainly do not have the data to make similar abuses except in this corruption case.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u53	The Minister of Defence, Mr Janko Webr, will be asked by Erik Dekleva.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. The Government shall meet on the 5th day. 3. 2014 adopted the Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the Central Training Centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces Postojna. According to the Regulation, this is of very high strategic importance in the country's defence system, as it is the only such area where the Slovenian Armed Forces can provide quality training for the defence of the country and meet the requirements of the Alliance. As such, it is very burdensome because it is in fact in regular use of all units of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Objectively speaking, the activities of the Slovenian Army in the Poček exercise have steadily increased in recent years. As a result of this fact, the relations between the municipality and Morse, which were defined in the 2004 mutual agreement, should be complemented or amended accordingly. The increasing burden of training Poček is reflected in various problems in the local environment, which have been beginning good relations between the Slovenian Army and the local population in recent years. In recent years, the Ministry has not even paid EUR 260 000 a year's rent or compensation for the use of the Poček exercise, nor has it co-financed investments in public infrastructure in the area. The Ministry’s obligations were usually settled with much delays and compensations which were less favourable for the municipality of Postojna. In addition to the mentioned complications with rents, the problem also extends to other areas. The local community here highlights above all: non-compliance with the 2000 referendum results, where people with a 70 per cent majority identified themselves against the exercise centre, and calls from a civil initiative from three years ago, which collected 17,000 signatures against the exercise, issued a government regulation despite the negative opinion of the Environment Agency and the Institute for Forests and the sharp opposition of the civil initiative for the Pivoščko boiler without shooting and the municipality Postojna. The environmental impact assessment procedure has not been carried out. In 2006, land analyses have also shown increases in some cases in excess of copper, chromium, zinc and even arsenic. For reasons of doubt as to the legality of the regulation, in particular in the light of those irregularities, the Municipality of Postojna submitted a request to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the regulation adopted. In connection with all of the above, I am interested in: Have any activities already begun to establish the coordination referred to by the Minister at the hearing of the competent Defence Committee? Who or will be involved in coordination from which financial resources will be drawn up to remedy the damage and to compensate for the use of the exercise and what will be the priorities and coordination measures?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u55	The answer will be given at the next oral meeting. Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič asks Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Members, Members, Honourable Minister of Justice! Particularly in recent days, in view of the illegal conduct of the Supreme Court, it has been reaffirmed that the warnings coming from the Slovenian Democratic Party as regards the ineffective, unfair and politically-led judiciary still hold. As President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I regularly face petitions or complaints transmitted to us by citizens and citizens, and where it all too often turns out that the judiciary has made many mistakes in procedures in which, of course, they have marked the lives of individuals, for which no one is ever responsible. According to Dr. Sturm's study on human rights violations in judicial proceedings, we can see that as many as 613 judicial bodies have violated human rights. I am aware that Dr. Sturm may not have had all the data in the course of this study, and he showed the Chambers 3 and 5 judges for whom he did not have the data, how they voted. When we did some analysis of the state of citizens and citizens' complaints on the Commission for Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities for the previous mandate, we found that they are most concerned with the inefficiency of justice. Trust in the justice system in our country is the lowest compared to the rest of the European Union. It is similar with the effectiveness of justice. However, our courts are still in line with totalitarian doctrine many times, so political processes and convictions without evidence are still possible. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What direction will you go in the changes to the Criminal Procedure Act? Are you planning to amend the Law on Courts and on Judicial Service, and specifically what? How will you systematically regulate the liability of judges when they violate human rights in judicial proceedings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u57	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members, honourable Members Eva Irgle! It is a difficult question because it was more of an opinion than a question, so I will briefly try to touch on the points of your question. The fact is that the biggest infringement by the judiciary in judicial proceedings occurs if the trial is not quality and is not fast. The fact is also that the Slovenian justice system is not optimal and is not perfect. And the fact is, in my firm belief, that it is unworthy to call it totalitarian, that it is dominated by totalitarian doctrine and that it systematically violates human rights. There is simply no basis for this. And with not only duty, but also respect for Dr. Sturm, we've already run out of marathon laps, his research, which, unfortunately, I can't use another word, you use as a kind of broken record, doesn't prove it. He's talking about how many lower court judgments have been overturned in higher cases. These numbers are exactly the same in Slovenia as in the Federal Republic of Germany. This study is neither substantively nor methodologically appropriate, as we know the instantaneous trial, and this is part of every legal state. Slovenian justice has its problems, but, as it is said, it cannot be generalised in the way it is intended to politicise this judiciary and is pushed into a more defensive attitude. The amendments for which you specifically asked me, the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, which we will send to the legislative procedure from the Government and the Ministry of Justice before the end of this year, will primarily refer to the possibility of a speedier trial at the right level and to the introduction of some guardians in terms of strengthening integrity and eliminating corruption risks on the basis of recommendations from the Anti-Corruption Group of the Council of Europe. I'd like to add this. Because, as it is said, I cannot agree that the Slovenian judiciary is the biggest violator of human rights in this country. To show the absurdity of that logic. Look, according to this logic, the biggest human rights violation in this country is the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court has found a number of laws to be unconstitutional in terms of the protection of human rights. Laws supported by, say, the government or the Minister of Justice when he was Mr Sturm. The absurdity of this is also shown by the fact that we have come into the situation that from the same people's mouth the same courts only in different times raise some to the highest guarantee of rights and human rights, while at another point they are being spasmed, in line with the expectations of the current political option or private interests, which only gives me the conviction that the courts in this country are doing the right thing because no one is satisfied with them at different times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u59	Request for complete response, Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. That's about the answer I expected from you, your esteemed minister. In general. However, what I have asked specific questions for has not been answered, especially how you will regulate the responsibility of judges who violate human rights. But we can go directly. Some media who still care about objective reporting have recently reported on a judge who wanted to be excluded from a particular procedure for reasons which were certainly justified. The Supreme Court simply misinterpreted it. In short, it acted irresponsiblely, inappropriately. Finally, the case of the complainant, which should be considered as an absolute priority, was decided only after one year and three months, despite the commitment signed by Branko Masles, then Justice Minister Senko Plicanic and then Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. Apparently, it was another pier and a smile in the cameras, and we didn't get any more of that commitment. In the case mentioned above, there have been violations of the Criminal Procedure Act, for intentional delay, including for politicisation. The irregularity in this proceedings is noted by Judge Lipaj and the judge of the Supreme Court of Borivoj Rozman. This case, which is not the only one, is even more so, but it points to the perfect anarchy that reigns in the Supreme Court, led by Mr Branko Masleš, who, by the way, because we are talking about human rights violations in judicial proceedings, has violated you at least fourteen times. Instead of sanctions for such irresponsible conduct and infringements, he was rewarded with one of the highest functions in the judicial system. Minister, I am aware that you are not directly responsible for the conduct that takes place there, but you are clearly responsible for the legislation and your statements show all too often that you are hiding behind the independence of the judiciary. And now for you, the specific question is: When will you initiate proceedings or take the initiative to relieve Branko Masleš from his office as President of the Supreme Court in view of all that I have done so far? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u61	The main issue was human rights violations in the judiciary. That's literally how it was described. I believe that this request to complete the answer is not a request to complete the answer, but it is a matter of asking an additional question. I'm still asking Mr. Mag. Clementine, if he wants to answer that question? Here you go, Mr. Mag. Klementzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Madam Member, as I did not disappoint you with my answer, you did not disappoint me with your question, first and second. You've given your opinion. These things you've been talking about are the subject of ongoing court proceedings. You have put yourself in one position, who else would have put himself in another position, and this simply says that the place to discuss specific judgments and procedures in a democratic society is a court of law and not a parliament. However, I am sorry, once again, but I regret that from the point of view of the representative of the executive branch, the Minister of Justice, I have to defend the branch of government, which is to be historically the most dangerous, to defend the courts against the truly unworthy attacks by the representative of the legislative branch. As a matter of fact, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u63	Procedurally, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u64	Look, Minister, there's no need to defend the court, but you can act responsibly. If I raise the question of when you will resolve the situation in some way by Mr Branko Masleša, who has clearly been proven to have violated human rights more than 14 times, this is, for the first time, the responsible question I have raised, and I would also expect a responsible answer from you as Minister of Justice. Given that you have not practically answered any of the questions raised to me, I believe that you have ideas on how to improve the situation in the judiciary, I believe that a discussion should be held on your answer, which was not the answer, in accordance with paragraph 246 of the Rules of Procedure. I believe that the debate must be held because, as has already been said, confidence in the justice system in our country is the lowest compared to the EU Member States. Also the effectiveness of justice. Many judges raise doubts about the independence and fairness of judicial proceedings. What is most interesting, however, is that the Council of Justice does not deal with these matters. I don't even know why we have these organs. No one, virtually no one in this country, when we talk about the judicial branch of power, is responsible for anything. By 2013, 613 courts of Slovenian courts had violated human rights and fundamental freedoms, representing at least a thousand 705 Slovenian judges. And, Mr. Secretary, these are alarming numbers for me. We can hide behind the fact that justice is independent and we must not interfere with it, I agree with that, but that does not mean that we can act in a written manner. It is said that we do not do everything in accordance with the fact that matters in justice will improve. It is necessary to establish the personal responsibility of judges for judgments which are criminal and inconsistent with the applicable legislation and also the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is necessary to prevent abuses in justice, to increase transparency, transparency in the functioning of judges. I think we agree with that, Mr. Secretary. There's only one thing to do, not just talk, but do. I'm just warning you from this place. You can do more than that. And it is necessary to restore people's confidence in justice, especially in respect of human rights. The National Assembly can do so through quality legislation, which, if in interest, must be prepared by the Government and the Minister, and of course through discussions. I therefore propose that, in accordance with Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, a thorough discussion be held on the response of the Minister of Justice [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u65	Ms Eva Irgl, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 November 2014, in the framework of the votes. The following question is raised by Mrs Ludmila Novak, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u66	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, colleagues and colleagues! On 5 November, on the initiative of New Slovenia, a meeting of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians was convened in place and around the world. In Italy, a reform of local administrations or municipalities is being prepared in the country of Furlania - Juliana. As you probably know, Slovenians in some small municipalities in this province have the majority and their mayors. This reform would probably have lost a significant impact on our territory in these municipalities, for it is envisaged that these congregations will be integrated into some of the Medo-Chinese territorial union. Although we have closed this meeting to the public because it is a sensitive subject, I can say that in the end all the Members of this Commission have unanimously accepted four conclusions. The meeting was also attended by mayors, Slovenian mayors from these municipalities, where they expressed specific fears. In order not to run out of time, I will read one of the four conclusions: "The Commission for Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide urges the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue to make every effort to protect its rights, taking into account the position of the Slovenian minority in Italy." However, as it is in a hurry, this law is due to be passed by the end of the month and enter into force next year, I think that this government must make every effort as soon as possible to get into the minority's defence. That's why I'm asking: Has any progress been made in ensuring the protection of the rights of the Slovenian minority in Italy in this area? Is the working group to be appointed at the foreign ministry already in operation and has it already made any concrete proposals to address these problems? Are the representatives of the Foreign Ministry talking to the competent authorities on the Italian side on this issue? As I said, by the end of the month, the law was supposed to be adopted by the entry into force in the coming year, so it is urgent, and it is not important that I today do not get an answer to this question because there is no minister. More importantly, the government carries out all its activities. Nevertheless, I would ask for an answer, for an oral reply to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you. The following question will be raised by Mr Uroš Prikl, Minister of Finance in the role of Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Dr Dušan Maramor, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers and respected ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Not a bit of controversy and hot blood were present in recent weeks and months due to bankruptcy, in which the formerly successful company Pohorje Sports Center was located. In particular, due to the continued fate of the larger number of employees here, as well as the solution to the issue of the upcoming ski season at the largest ski resort in Slovenia, and not least the subsequent fates of the Golden Fox, as we know, one of the classic World Cup races for women, the problem has to be addressed as soon as possible and as efficiently as possible. As you know, the City Council of Maribor adopted or approved five decrees necessary for the award of the concession for the operation of the cableways and the circular cab cableway to Marprom, a public company owned by the Municipality of Maribor. For a comprehensive solution, however, the issue of accommodation capacity or hotel services of the fallen sports centre must also be addressed. This segment is in the domain of the State, more specifically the Bank Claims Management Company. It should be noted that this is the overnight capacity of over 600 beds, insecurely, the fate of approximately 100 workers in the area of hospitality and tourism in Pohorje, the indirect social existence of their families, and, last but not least, the possible loss of significant part of their income. I want to know: How do you see in the Ministry the solution to this question? What concrete action will you take in this regard, and when can we expect concrete solutions for the existence of tourism in Pohorje, both winter and annual key? The successful ski season or the prosperity of tourism in this part of Slovenia is by no means possible only by ensuring the operation of ski facilities, but also by a comprehensive or exclusively comprehensive offer, where hotel services and catering services belong. I sincerely thank you for your written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you. The next question will be posed by the mag. Marko Pogačnik, and to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marmor, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u70	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to point out in the introduction that I expect the Minister of Finance's oral reply at the next regular meeting. I ask the Minister of Finance the following question: When will the government of Mir Cerar send the fiscal rule law to the National Assembly? The facts are that on 24 May the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an amendment to the Constitutional Law, Article 148, where we described the so-called fiscal rule. The commitment contained in this decision of the National Assembly was also to adopt the so-called implementing law within six months. It's been about a year. This means that Slovenia has been in an unconstitutional position for one year. And that's why I'm asking the Minister the question: When will the government of Mir Cerar bring the fiscal rule law to the National Assembly? And, of course, the main question: What's the content of this? The fact is that an interdeputy commission has been formed in the previous composition of the National Assembly, which has already examined this law. The Interdepartmental Commission was composed of members of all parliamentary parties. According to the information I have, this proposal has already been aligned with the European Commission. The fact is that the National Assembly will consider tomorrow the proposal for a rebalancing for 2014 and Slovenia is still without the implementing law on the fiscal rule. I am particularly interested in this because we also have the 2015 budget rebalancing: Will the Government be able to submit to the National Assembly this fiscal rule, the implementing law on the fiscal rule? I think it's one of the most important documents in here. The document is also intended to commit to the fiscal rule already in the preparation of the 2015 budget rebalancing. I would point out once again that this is an unconstitutional situation. I expected the government of Mira Cerar to be one of their top priorities. It should be borne in mind that without this law of consolidation of public finances, which is assessed by the Slovenian Democratic Party as the most important, it will not be possible to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you. The next question will be raised by Mrs Marija Bačič, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister, ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament! At the beginning of this year 2014, the previous government adopted a Youth Guarantee programme aimed at young people from the 15th to the 19th years of age, which guarantees that every young person in this age group will be offered employment after four months of registration at the Employment Service of the Republic of Slovenia, including through apprenticeships, on-the-job training, formal education or a shorter form of institutional or practical training. The key objectives of this programme are to improve the transition from education to employment, to speed up the activation of young unemployed people and to reduce unemployment itself. Since the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is the Chief Coordinator and Programme Operator, I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to: Have you already prepared a record of the results resulting from the implementation of this programme from January to today? I'm also asking you: What are the plans for the implementation of the Youth Guarantee in the future and what measures are you preparing in the field of student work regulation? And the third question. Since last year you also passed an intervention law in the field of labour market and parental protection, I am interested in: What are the results of the implementation of this law?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u73	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u74	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Madam Member, Mrs Bachič, thank you for the question. Dear Members and Members! The Ministry, together with youth representatives, has developed an important document, the Youth Guarantee, which includes 36 different measures for the period 2004-2015. Under these guarantees, 157 million young people will be targeted for the two years I have mentioned. The data are interesting because the Youth Guarantees had to be prepared by all Member States. To this end, we have also obtained additional funding under the Youth Initiative, namely EUR 9 million, which we have achieved through the first challenge facing the east of the country, where we have foreseen 690 subsidies for young people, by the end of May 470, so we have spent most of the money. In general, the assessment was made by the Commission President, who pointed out that most countries only realised 25% of the funds, while Slovenia, according to data, that is, what we wrote, spent 96% of the money this year, so far. We can therefore say that with the preparation of the Youth Guarantee, where we have also received recognition in the framework of the European Commission, because Slovenia was one of the few countries that has included young people in the implementation itself, that we are also successful in implementation, relatively, but of course we could always be more successful. To this end, we also have a working group to monitor implementation. In this working group, where representatives of ministries are responsible for each action and at the same time representatives of young people, such as the Mama Network, the Slovenian Youth Council, the Youth Plus Union. And on November 7th, they met to review how the performance was carried out. You asked me if we were following. We're monitoring this. From January to May, 14,000 500 young people were re-registered. Eighty-five % of these have been offered within four months of the commitment under the Youth Guarantee. They received 47 thousand 266 offers, an average of 4 offers for an unemployed young person. By May, 3 000 423 young people had been employed by means of a subsidy. This includes the first challenge, i.e. the first challenge subsidy, the intervention law giving results, and you will also be asked to extend for another year. Through this measure, 2 000 800 young people were employed. In addition, in the first nine months, through active employment policy measures, which are not part of the guarantees, 478 young people have been employed by the Employment Subsidy and by jobs to address the consequences of the desire; a thousand 372 young people have been employed under the Public Works Programme; 48 young people have become part of the Formal Education Programme. At this point, if we look at the number of unemployed, we have 115 thousand 591 registered, that's less than last year, we're not happy with it yet. As far as young people are concerned, this number is 30 thousand 403 and is still absolutely too high. However, positive trends have been identified. This year, from January to September, 24 000 658 people aged 15 to 29, i.e. this age group of young people, which is 3.8% less than in the same period of last year, signed off, which is positive, 27 000 702 unemployed in this group, which is 12.7% more than in the same period last year. Within this, 19 thousand 771 employed, accounting for 23.1% more than last year. Of course, guarantees provide certain results, and there is also a need to face systemic measures that are important and perhaps to provide a follow-up to the student work and future regulation of this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u75	Request for follow-up, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. I would also like you to answer further about the intervention law on the labour market. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u77	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you. Last May, the National Assembly adopted an intervention law which allowed young unemployed persons up to the age of 30 who had been registered at the institution for at least 3 months to be employed by the employer for an indefinite period of time. And if he works indefinitely, for two years he has the possibility of not paying the employer's contributions to this young unemployed person, which means that he has 16.10% lower labour costs. It is important that we want to encourage the employment of young people and, on the other hand, to encourage employment for an indefinite period of time. This measure gives results, of which 2 000 800 were employed by September and therefore there is also a proposal, the government will deal with this in the coming days and you will finally have a final say on whether we will extend this measure for another year because it is in force by the end of this year. The proposal by the Ministry went in the direction of extending this proposal for another year. As far as student work is concerned, you probably heard a lot from the public through the media because it is part of the 2015 budget. I certainly guarantee that we are talking with students and young people about this arrangement, that the arrangements will be one that will be in line with the recommendations of the European Commission, and above all that we will address the age segmentation in our labour market, where today the cost of working for student work represents significantly lower costs than for all other forms of work. The concession fee is only 25% if you compare, say, the burdens of other forms of work. Here you have a proposal for a student's job, which is 25%, while for example, the employment contract is 73.98%. If you look at the copyright when someone is employed and is already paying contributions from the employment contract, this is 50.39%, but if someone is not employed, its copyright contract is charged at 79% and this percentage is even higher in the business. Here inside we will look for an equalization of labour costs by logic, "every work counts", young people will have recognised rights under this heading, which is very important for reducing inadequacy, while at the same time it is important to think that student work is also socially corrective. Inside this, we and the students will look for solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u79	Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the distinguished ministers you are here. My question concerns aggressive tax planning in some countries in Europe. On the one hand, it is actually good that the Minister of Finance will have a little more time to prepare this response. I want to know: What changes to Slovenian tax legislation will some countries make to taxpayers or multinationals on the basis of information or findings, which means that the tax rate can also be 0.25%, 0.30%, which of course means tax competition? Whether it's a so-called fair or harmful tax competition, I'm not going to talk about it today because there's not enough time for that. However, in any case, how much foreign capital can Slovenia get on the basis of what is possible in some other countries, meaning, in other words, that a taxable person with a tax administration or a person in the country agrees on a tax rate. Not only for legal persons, I also want to know how many countries that practice this for natural persons. In other words, you have a famous athlete, a famous artist, and so on, he may also be a famous scientist, such as the Nobel Prize for Economics, and one country offers him residence by agreeing on the tax treatment of this person. There's that, too. And, of course, I'm interested: What is the position of the Minister of Finance on this? Will Slovenia, in order to attract foreign capital, eventually attract famous people, go to this? I want to know: What is the position, or what, of Minister Marble as to the amendments to the double taxation agreements? In fact, even under the OECD, these agreements came not into double taxation avoidance agreements, but into double non-tax agreements, which means that taxes are not paid where they were created or where they were transferred, which means that a lot of capital is untaxed. That's why I'm interested: What are his communications with his colleagues at the Eurogroup from the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany? What is he going to do at the Eurogroup, ECOFIN, where he goes every month, at least on official duty, as to how these matters are regulated within the framework of the European Union?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer at the next meeting. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, will raise the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u82	Dear Minister, distinguished ministers! For more than a year, discussions and discussions have been under way on 11 problem environmental cohesion projects carried out by municipalities. I believe that the state itself, including the ministries in the field in this segment, does not do enough or do not adhere to that principle of a good master, and that is to say to solve this problem by doing the least harm. But there's already damage to these projects, because these projects are standing. Thus, the damage to investors, as the municipalities say, is caused by the costs to operators. We know that bank guarantees are running, these guarantees are not free, they're costing, they're running costs without need. Throughout the municipality, they are promised, in principle, that these investments will be included in the current perspective, that is to say in the 2014-20 perspective, but it is not clear that this will be the case. Dear Minister, I ask you: What measures will your ministry take to ensure that these eleven environmental projects, the investors of which are municipalities, are carried out in practice and in the shortest possible time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u84	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members, honourable Ambassador Ljubo Žnidar! The Ministry of Environment and Space supports the implementation of 11 environmental projects that are ready, but the managing authority has not issued decisions on the allocation of funds in the financial perspective 2007-2013 because of the lack of free spending rights, i.e. European funds. As part of the preparation of the operational programme for the period 2014-2020, the Ministry of Environment and Space has made sure that, within the framework of the chapter, the best environmental and biodiversity situation is enshrined in the guiding principles for the selection of projects, so that these eleven projects are in some way a priority in dealing with them. In addition to synergies, they shall at the same time demonstrate their willingness to implement, for example, the building permit obtained, and shall represent any unimplemented phases of projects financed under the Operational Programme 2007-2013. It was agreed between the Ministry of Environment and Space and the managing authority that the managing authority should establish contact with JASPERS, which will review the applications for projects in accordance with the adopted decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 10. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Ministry of Environment and Space shall prepare specific documentation on these projects to be transmitted by the managing authority to JASPERS. However, with other activities under the implementation of the financial perspective 2014-2020, the Ministry of Environment and Space will be able to continue when the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020 is confirmed by the European Commission, when the managing authority prepares guidance, rules and other documentation for the implementation of the 2014-2020 perspective, when the Ministry of Environment and Space becomes an intermediate body and the managing authority forwards the tasks for the implementation of the works in this financial perspective and when the beneficiaries resubmit applications for these eleven projects for implementation in the financial perspective 2014-2020. Whether or not to submit applications in terms of changes will be the basis for these guidelines, rules and other documentation to be prescribed by the managing authority.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, are you asking for an answer? Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u86	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, you mentioned it, I would call it part of the administrative procedure of the procedure itself, which is necessary before just putting in place the cohesion funds before the project itself. However, I think that, in some ways, municipalities should also be helped in particular by the fact that there are not so many promises and some assumptions, but that there is actually some simulation of the next steps in these projects and by identifying the risks and realities of the implementation of these projects. That's essential. I would say that the administrative procedure is one that actually runs and must have certain conditions for the project to come into operation, but at this stage it is necessary to assess in real terms which projects have conditions and can be resolved realistically, which projects are those or have such a level of risk that they will not be able to carry out. So I'm interested in: Do you also intend to take such an approach and after all these procedures, which are, when is your assumption that the start of these projects is possible for implementation itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u88	In preparing these 11 environmental projects, the Ministry of Environment and Space has reviewed and approved all these projects or applications in the past. As I have already said in my reply, these projects were then not given a decision on the allocation of funds. So this part I think I made clear enough. As far as implementation is concerned, we estimate that, as with other countries, the operational programme for the implementation of European cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 will be confirmed by the European Commission in this year or at the beginning of the following year. And then, in this part, it's the administrative body. I am confident that the administrative authority will already begin to draw up instructions, rules and procedures necessary for the use of funds, so that we can assess for ourselves that, in the second half of 2015, these applications could be approved and allocated to decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, do you request a discussion at the next meeting? Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to understand from the interview that in autumn 2015 it will be possible to start building these projects. I'm kind of skeptical about this reality, or I have to say that I don't believe this answer that much. As this is a very important matter, it is the use of European funds and ultimately all the budgetary resources that the municipalities have already invested in these projects, it seems to me that the risk of all these steps taken by the municipalities so far is extremely high, so I think that this issue needs to be discussed in a broader debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19. November, in the framework of the vote. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Viktor Karl Erjavac, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. In recent years, in the context of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, we have been giving increasing emphasis to economic diplomacy, which I absolutely agree and clearly support. Since we are an export, very export-oriented economy, it is very important to support Slovenian companies in entering foreign markets and also in promoting internationalisation. As I understand it, economic diplomacy is one of the top priorities in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In doing so, I am particularly interested in: How will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs increase the promotion of the interests of Slovenian economic operators in bilateral relations in international organisations and institutions? I would also like to raise a further question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs or to the Minister: Is there any protocol of cooperation between the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology or Spirit, which also performs similar tasks in order to make the most of the resources and resources available in the Government? It is clear that, in these difficult conditions and limited resources and financial matters, this is most important. I'd like an oral response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. You will receive an oral response at the next meeting. Mr Tomaž Lisec will raise the question to the Minister for Health, Mrs Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, it is a good week to meet you in Brežica at the opening of the first emergency centre in Slovenia. You have announced the expansion of emergency centres across Slovenia. But according to your efforts, I have quite a few questions. The fact is that the establishment of emergency centres will also bring about the transfer and reorganisation of the work of emergency medical services. Even more. You yourself wrote on the website: "Any further changes to the reorganisation should be adopted on the basis of in-depth analyses in cooperation with a group of experts who know this area well. The Ministry of Health, which is responsible for organising emergency medical care, will resolve professional and organisational matters with representatives of local communities." In recent weeks, however, the first official information on the operation of emergency services has also come to light, where it is concluded that emergency medical care will slowly be shut down in the field, shut down or join emergency centres, as it is intended to save time to avoid duplication of services, and in the opinion of certain services, the patient should have all in one place. The fact and practice, however, are different in my view. In health homes, they have a permanent staff who well know people on their territory, who know the demographic picture, and they know each of the most distant places in their congregation. In view of the fact that many of these emergencies are repeated, patients are also familiar with them and so on. Dear Minister, I have a feeling that sometimes human lives are more at the hands of those theorists in the Ministry than the actual and empirical situation on the ground. That's why I want to know: How will the organisation, the establishment of a network of emergency centres, affect the reorganisation of the emergency medical care service? What group of experts is preparing this reorganisation? When will a professional document be prepared to serve as a basis for reorganisation? What will be the negative effects for patients from more remote locations due to the reorganisation of emergency medical care? So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Very well hailed Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Mr Lisec, I thank you for this question. As you rightly mentioned, last Friday we opened the first emergency centre in the network of 10 emergency centres that Slovenia will build this year and next year with European funds of €42 million and €7 million from the Slovenian budget. With regard to your question itself, I must point out that in fact, with this, Slovenian patients and all of us citizens gain a lot. We get emergency medical care when we need it at a high, quality, safe level, only at the primary level, where usually when we get there, our family doctor will write a guide and send us to the first emergency center. These emergency centres will be organised and will operate in a way that some of you may have been able to convince yourself when opening the first centre to train and offer first aid, emergency medical care, both surgical and other secondary levels, which could be ensured if this centre were not available, in the hospital or in the emergency centre of Ljubljana. For the purposes of the operation of these centres, the Ministry of Health has already established a specific working group to prepare baselines and analyses to reorganise and create a new emergency medical assistance network. Let me mention that there are recognised experts in this group who have also been trained abroad for these needs, the entire team, together with nurses, have been trained in London and Manchester, so that indeed all the requirements that these staff in these centres must have are assured. For this purpose, a new emergency medical regulation will also be drawn up by the end of the year. In fact, it is just that there will be no more emergency medical care in the healthcare home from 8 a.m. until morning when health homes begin to operate. Let me mention that at the opening of the Brežica Emergency Centre, we have already held a number of professional discussions with representatives of this working group as well as with representatives of the local community, especially from the municipality of Krško, because this emergency centre is opening at Brežice Hospital, local concerns have been expressed that people from the Krske area will be deprived of legal emergency medical care. Like I said in the introduction, it's not like that, but it's gonna be the other way around. Similarly, we will hold interviews and meetings with other actors in individual regions where these new emergency centres and new organisational forms will start to work. Once again, and with this end, we need to look here at the acquisition that all citizens receive, so that when we fail, we get quality and safe help at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, will you complete the question? Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answers. I agree that the secondary level will gain. They will gain in particular because European funds are at their disposal. But I have a feeling that primary health care, which is in the community domain, is going to lose. In my opinion, in particular, it will be lost because of the accessibility of every citizen or I may say a citizen of our municipality, because from point A to point B, according to the current divisiveness of emergency medical care, sometimes, what you have said, sometimes they will unite, perhaps because of less financial resources for the health sector, sometimes the emergency medical care unit will collapse, probably fewer doctors, fewer nurses, probably fewer vehicles. In short, in my view, accessibility will be less accessible, and I believe that there is something on the scale here, something is in the theory of how the establishment of emergency centres will affect emergency medical care, and something is in practice. Indeed, we do not yet have practice, but you know, I personally do not believe the theory or feel that when the state re-orders or redecorates, citizens and citizens pay the price. This is not a debate about Members, it is not a debate about mayors who have emergency medical care in their municipalities, but I think it is a debate about all citizens and citizens. Minister, I would like that access to emergency medical care from more remote places should not be reduced at the expense of the emergency centres, so that the primary health level is not impoverished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u99	Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you. I'll answer that, too. The fact is that emergency medical care in remote areas will not decrease because the number of emergency vehicles does not decrease. So if you think in this particular case also in the health care home Krško remains an emergency vehicle. And I don't understand this fear, which is completely unjustifiable. If everywhere in Europe and around the world they have already found that it is much more important when we need urgent medical care to get quality specialist assistance at the right time than if a rescue vehicle with a blue light has to carry us for about 10 kilometers longer to get this help. In many cases, however, we know that we get a travel pass, and then we have to take ourselves to another major center or hospital. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u102	I'm telling you again. It is not about how many of us are Members and where we come from. I wasn't talking about the Krschke case, even though I'm pretty familiar with this case. The fact is that emergency medical teams will change, and the result will also be that accessibility to emergency medical care or to the emergency room will change. As I said before, from point A to point B, these distances will increase. As this is a key question of how the Ministry will work with local communities, who are experts, you did not answer, you only said that they were recognised and that they were educated. You did not deny that there would be negative effects for patients from more remote locations. I think it's a matter of concern to all of us. As I said, the terrain is afraid of change, the terrain is afraid of a reduction in health care mainly at the primary level. When you said that between 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., health homes will be closed, I feel like between 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. in the area of health care for our citizens and citizens, nothing is going to happen as if no one were going to crash at night, but you're going to take a more remote place and put them in emergency centres. Once again, I support the emergency centres, I support that they are funded by the European Union, but I really would like to point out that you are not taking emergency medical care in the field, because they know the best way to do things on the ground. Therefore, as I have already said, this concerns all of us to have one full debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec, your proposal will be voted on Wednesday, 19 November 2014, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Violeta Tomič has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice President, Honorable National Assembly! Recently, we have witnessed horrendous revelations in the field of animal cruelty, especially in the form of dog fights, where underground criminal associations are horribly abused by dogs for their own profit. Individuals and various civil initiatives report animal torture to the Veterinary Inspection. For the first time, the fight against dogfighters was launched in 2006 when dogs were found bitten in Lithuania. The vet inspector then found out there was no irregularity. Only after the murder of the dogfighter in 2011, when it was no longer possible to stuff its head in the sand, did they take appropriate action. Dog fights are part of Slovenian reality, but the Directorate for Safe Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection, whose Director-General is Vida Čadonič Špelič, responds to this pressing problem by large ignoring, misdirecting and without appropriate careful action, signaling criminals and animal torturers that they can do what they like with animals. This violates the laws governing the protection of animals and does not have a specific preventive effect due to their laxity and fines. This is how the famous Maribor dogfighter Vesna Trifunović publicly boasts dog colors, whose recordings are published even online. Despite the obvious involvement in this raw business and numerous applications, it has never been punished because veterinary inspectors do not detect irregularities and its dog continues to number the highest on the most wanted dogs scale for illegal fighting in the world. These are only the worst cases of failure of the administration to act in the event of obvious animal abuse. We also note a number of other irregularities, the delaying, non-response and incorrect functioning of veterinary inspectors, the lack of control over the protection against animal torture and health conditions, and in particular the arrogance and ignorance of many initiatives by civil society to respond to the improvement of the situation of animals, which sparked widespread public dissatisfaction with the work of Director-General Vursa Vide Čadonic Špelič. I'm asking: What do you intend to do about the inappropriate, unprofessional and indecisive behaviour of the Director-General for Safe Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection Vide Čadonic Špelič in relation to all forms of animal torture? Are you preparing an amendment to the legislation that will impose stricter penalties on animal torturers? How do you plan to ensure better and more effective work of veterinary inspectors in the field in terms of timely identification of animal torture cases?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u106	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Madam Members, thank you very much for this question, which is up to date. The question of how to protect animals is important, sometimes more than it seems. Let me get you some information. The torture of animals is a crime regulated by the Penal Code. The penal legislation that regulates this is not within the competence of our ministry, but of the Ministry of Justice. It was last amended in 2011. It also extended the possibility of a prison sentence for people who torture or even repeat the torture of animals. At that time, MEPs and Members did not decide, although the proposal was to increase the level of individual penalties. If there is such a proposal, we, as an interested ministry, will support it. I would also like to say that in 2011, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, the perpetrator was sentenced to animal torture. Every year, the veterinary system in the country conducts checks on breeds over 20,000 reviews of breeds, not only for the health condition but also for the welfare of animals. This is the first system we've got built in. Within the official veterinarians, which we have a hundred and ninety, there are good twenty also responsible for animal welfare. These are the ones that react. At the annual level, we get about nine hundred applications, about four hundred reports of illegal treatment of breeding animals, about five hundred with pets. In some cases, competent inspectors shall then order the collection of animals. This collection of animals last year was thirty-three cases this year, up to one hundred and forty cases. They say fines, too. Last year, the six-thirty fines were passed, and at some point, they hand over matters to the competent authorities in charge of prosecution. These are not veterinary inspectors or official veterinarians. The case you described is familiar to me. Madam Director has reported, I am also aware of which law enforcement authorities have been involved and are investigating matters. More, you must allow, because the specific case is mentioned, I do not have the authority to speak at this time, but procedures are under way. As an interested and competent ministry, we have noticed that the procedures currently under way give results and the public will also be informed. But let me say something else in this place. Our inspectors, official veterinarians, including the Director-General, also face threats, including death threats by individual groups operating through internet and similar applications. And let's also here call for something like this not to be done in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, are you requesting a supplement? Here you go, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u108	Minister, I'm not happy with your answer at all. If someone is in such a position, and because of threats he does not perform his functions, he is probably not fit to continue to perform it. We're all threatened, too. I have almost 30 reports of your inspectors' mistakes here from 2006 until today, in many cases the owners of the penalty have never been punished, because they have assured them at Vurs that they have too much to do to deal with such things. If they're too busy, there's probably too few of them or I don't know how you're gonna solve this problem. Arroganism in the media is also totally unacceptable, because if a person is in a certain position, it is essential that, at least from a politically correct point of view, he defends the rights of animals. Here we have cases where veterinary inspectors have warned the owner that they will record it, here you can find on Radio Krka. After being notified by the Society for the Protection of Animals of Ljubljana, the final response: the veterinary inspector shall not detect any irregularities. The world for 24 hours. Then the serious case was when the bull, escaped from the slaughterhouse in Maribor, was killed in front of children and the whole public, and they claimed once again that everything was fine. The slaughterhouse seems flawless, but European inspectors have found problems. In short, by no means everything is as flawless as you say. And it would be very healthy for you to take a closer look at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Diane Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thanks for the initiative. In any case, I will be very careful in this area. But only possible information, we also have the Animal Protection Act in the country. Finally, we are Members and Members of Parliament, which I was then a Member of Parliament, and we have changed. At that time, we were given the opportunity, Members and Members, to simply include NGOs in the adoption of the law. At that time it was also agreed that in Slovenia we are one of the countries where animal slaughter is not allowed without stunning, which is now even the case, before the Constitutional Court. Then we intervened in the operation of circuses, all at the initiative of NGOs, which I think is also the right thing to do. I believe that we will continue to take steps for the welfare of the animal. Where it is found that the inspection body has made a mistake, it is, of course, appropriate to consider this in higher cases. I would also like to draw some attention, but we also have a relatively large number of applications in recent years, where there is some Slovenian specificity: neighbor-neighbourly relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. Will you complete or request a discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u112	I thank you for your word. I will not go on with this because I know that this matter will have to be resolved elsewhere, so we will consider this on the Committee on Agriculture and propose stricter legislation on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will raise the question to the Minister for Finance in his capacity as Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Dr Dusan Maramor, who is rightly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Honorable Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to ask a question to the distinguished Minister Dr. Dusan Marble. Is the government preparing a strategy to activate dead capital and development potential at Nafta Lendava, which would at least partially compensate for the loss of more than a thousand jobs? Oil Lendava is owned by the majority state. So far, management and control systems by the state capital owner have been so unsuccessful and ineffective that, despite the latest state aid of €10 million, they have lost more than a thousand jobs, unfortunately, the last 111 already under SDH custody, by introducing bankruptcy proceedings against Nafta Petroch's daughter company of 8. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. From an economic point of view, the oil business system is of strategic importance for the area of Lendava and the region as it is also subject to a concession for the extraction of natural gas, estimated at EUR 150 million. The slow resolution of this issue would have an extremely negative impact on the possibility of re-eligible start-up of the entire industrial infrastructure due to the damage to technology equipment that is out of use and, of course, the loss of critical mass of knowledge and experience in this area. Of course also to use storage capacity for storage of oil derivatives for the needs of state reserves. I see the solution only in a quick and quality solution to the problem, otherwise the country will be severely damaged again, as we recall the case of the refinery when the old cut and sold as scrap iron, and the new we practically donated to the Chinese, while the country and the company remained unfulfilled obligations or debts. Thank you for the oral question and then for the Minister's oral reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Franc Ly, for your oral response at the next session. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor, and he will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greetings to the minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Over the past year, we have discussed much about the absorption of cohesion funds, particularly from the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, both on the Committee on the Economy and on the Management Authority and the Government of the Service, as well as on the management body, as well as on the various committees and on the intermediate bodies. Most of the discussions were from projects in the field of environmental protection, where projects are being prepared by municipalities, because the question was whether all the funds would be exhausted or not, because certain projects had long been prepared and were also difficult to implement. However, there was little talk from another group of projects, i.e. these environmental projects also had backup projects, overcommittee 1 and then overcommittee 2 as a backup project in case the basic projects were not completed to start or implement these backup projects. On the contrary, in the field of transport infrastructure, concerning your ministry, Mr Gasperšič, there were no and very few discussions. The government has always said that it is not a problem to draw on, that projects are under way, but now we see that, on the basis of the report on the use of European cohesion funds by the end of September, it is not so much so and that less resources are being spent than from environmental projects. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Will these projects from your department be carried out in time for all these funds to be drawn up or not? Have you made sure that the projects are completed? We know that projects need to be completed by the fall of next year if we are to prepare everything necessary to recover European funds. I would like to ask for an answer because I fear that certain projects are in such a phase because they are huge, long-term implementation of some projects is, and the resources in this area remain, but in the area where the municipalities are, they are significantly more active than here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members! Thank you for this question and allow me first to highlight the situation of drawing on cohesion projects in the field of the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure in the field of transport infrastructure. Thus 58 projects worth €50 million have been confirmed since the beginning of this cohesion period, which is 107% of the use of rights. EUR 962 million of implementation contracts have been signed, representing 98% of spending rights, and some EUR 589 million have been paid, representing 60% of EU spending rights. All these approved projects are closely monitored, both in terms of physical performance and in terms of the preparation of payment requests. In order to ensure the absorption of all appropriations, we have also used the possibility of financing additional rights of the so-called overcommitment. This is the implementation of these projects at the level of the basic spending rights, such as those allocated to projects under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure by this OP ROPI Operational Programme 2007-2013. Thus, according to the level of financial savings in railways in 2014, the Ministry of Infrastructure decided to additionally include the Modernisation of the works of the main port station and the Koper freight station ranking group, the so-called D phase, among the projects for co-financing from the Cohesion Fund. As a result of possible financial savings in the area of sustainable energy use, the measures implemented under the sixth development priority have also been the subject of multiple allocations and allocations to the basic operational programme. In addition to the basic spending rights of € 160 million, another 28 million were allocated to the projects. Together with other projects that have been approved to provide 100% of implementation, it is now confirmed by €69 million, almost €70 million, representing 109% of the spending rights, which is potentially lower than the European funds allocated, very unlikely and thus estimated that the funds will be fully absorbed as projects are now very intensively implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u120	Mr Minister, the report on the use of these funds by the end of September shows that 95% of the contracts signed in the rail infrastructure and 92% in the road and maritime infrastructure. However, payment from the budget was only 38% on the first item and 75% on the second item and 66% on transport infrastructure. This is about the funds that have been paid out of the budget, that is to say, the works have already been done, it is likely to have been done up to this time, because they have not yet been paid, they will be paid later, perhaps even in the following year, because it says here that everything that will be done by the end of October will be paid in this year, which will remain in the following year. However, the certified applications in the last quarter were not available on these three items and the next quarter provides for quite a few things, it is likely that what is expected to be done by the end of October is what. Nevertheless, the percentage is still very low. Either this information is not correct or there will be more to be done. I want to know: Are all operators already selected for these projects for which contracts are signed? Do you have any backup scenario in terms of redistribution of funds, if only it had been that everything hadn't been completed? There may also be some unloved events, such as bankruptcy of some contractor and the like. Are you ready for this? Usually, 10% of the funds will also be held back once the works are finished until the deficit is resolved. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you very much. As it is said, the current situation is with this additional overcommitment that we have contractually committed 109 % of the available resources. So we have, I'll say, a few spares for this, too, if, somewhere in any project of work, they may not be completed to the extent that we now expect. In fact, we somehow do not hope to conclude any additional contracts anymore, because we are counting that we could then find ourselves in a situation where we will no longer be able to cover these projects with the envisaged European funds. I would add that the projects currently under way are very intensively implemented. So we also hope that by the end of this year, we will be making drawing requests for all the activities that will be carried out around now, sometime by 20 November, in order to minimise this difference between the funds made from the budget and the funds we then receive from the EU. In short, we are really counting on 100 % of the funds to be absorbed in the transport infrastructure work here. If you would like some more specific, more accurate information on the state of a specific project, then you can also give it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u124	I thank the Minister for his answers, for his clear answers. However, since this operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure is very problematic, I would suggest that the debate be held to make things clearer, including in the field of environmental infrastructure, so that we can get a clearer picture. This would also probably encourage the operators themselves and those operational powers at the Ministry to become more involved and indeed to be fully absorbed because it is a shame that our money we are paying to Brussels remains unused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Tink Lah. Your proposal will be voted on by the National Assembly on 19 November in the framework of a vote point. Mrs Iva Dimic will raise the question to Minister Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Madam Secretary! In our country, children with autism are still well cared for. Unfortunately, I cannot say that adults with autism are also cared for. Therefore, Madam Minister, also in the field of adult health care, there are problems with autism due to the slow functioning or resolution of matters at the Ministry of Health itself. I assume that you are aware of the problem, since in early October you received a letter from parents who are fighting and taking over so that their children can be dealt with as soon as possible by a psychiatric team. In Slovenia to this day adults with autism do not have the same possibilities for specialist medical treatment, which is sad and unacceptable. As parents say, all necessary documentation is needed for the start of the programme already in your ministry and has been waiting for the signature of the responsible person since August. However, financial resources for this programme should also be provided, and this programme appears to be moving further and further into the future. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor Minister: Do they claim that the programme is ready and that money is already provided for its implementation? What are the reasons why the program hasn't been confirmed at your ministry? When do you plan to give the green light to a limited program? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Here you are, Madam Minister of Health, Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Dear Mrs Dimic, welcome once again, on my behalf. In 2011, the Health Council approved a health programme for the integrated treatment of adults with autism, which was jointly proposed by the Institute for Autism and Related Disorders and the Paediatric Clinic in Ljubljana. The programme for the integrated treatment of adults with autism was then financially estimated at EUR 224 000 624 per year and provided for team extra-hospital specialist treatment of adults, including a psychiatrist, a psychologist and a special teacher, with a social worker and a working therapist. Despite the inclusion of the programme in the general agreement for the 2011 contract year, it is regrettable that this year, due to the lack of funding, this programme could not be implemented. In May 2013, the Institute of Autism and Related Disorders obtained a concession in the field of specialist extra-patient health activities in the field of paediatric autism on the basis of a concession decision. By virtue of the concession contract, the contracting party has provided for the concessionaire to perform a public service in the field of specialist extra-patient health activities autism pediatrics in the range of 0,60 teams. The carrier of the activities carried out from 1 July 2013 is Doc. Dr. Marta Macedoni Lukšič, Dr. In October 2013, the programme of autism for adults re-examined the Health Council and concluded this programme on the so-called ranking list of applications for a general agreement for 2014. In the annex number one to the general agreement for the contract year 2014, financial resources were provided to the Institute for Autism and related disorders for the programme of autism for adults, but the Institute for Autism and Related Disorders could not have started to implement it, since it did not have the appropriate authorisations and concessions for specialist extra-patient activities of adult psychiatry with autism disorder. At the Ministry of Health, we are aware of the problem of dealing with adults with autism and of course comprehensive solutions for the whole field of autism, both for children and adults, but in obtaining information and also from the Psychiatric Clinic Ljubljana, we have received a written notification or reply that the Psychotherapy and Neurosis Unit of the Psychiatric Clinic in Ljubljana is already carrying out a program of adults with autism. For this reason, it will be necessary to re-examine the extension within the Psychiatric Clinic in Ljubljana or Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, will you complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, dear Minister, for your answer. However, see, talked all about the period from 2011 to 2014, you confirmed the funds provided, but there are some bureaucratic obstacles to the start of implementation. Still, I'd like to know: When do you plan to give the green light? However, I expect and hope that this will not happen, that we will not talk next year about 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Here's the answer, Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u132	Yeah, that's definitely not gonna happen next year. However, I would like to point out that because you already mentioned bureaucratic obstacles, part of the problem, why it was not done or done, was already on the side of the one who asked or gave a role in the concession, because at that time the Health Council’s decision to regulate autism as a whole was a comprehensive programme with all the relevant teams and stakeholders including. Unfortunately, there was no demand or requirement for such a concession for reasons unknown to me at that time, since all of a sudden everything would have been settled by then. This also led to a re-examination at the Second Health Council in October 2014. But as soon as we check with the Psychiatric Clinic, I will take the appropriate action and this matter will be settled because I am aware of the difficulty of the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dr. László Göncz will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark and Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs. Ireni Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The natural disasters we are witnessing require responsible actors to adapt all disaster prevention activities to the greatest extent possible and to focus on the changed circumstances. In my opinion, all of us should be the only goal in the future to prevent or at least mitigate the greatest natural disasters. I have been encouraged by the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, who today stressed, inter alia, that anti-flood security is among the key government projects, and stressed that the competent ministry is to draw up an action plan for the most urgent intervention measures by 27 November. In the context of this question, I would like to test this intention of the Government only in a small segment of possible emergency measures, until the state can or cannot provide a system-wide solution in this area of expertise at the same time and, of course, in the light of the fact that even the greatest natural casualties and disasters can never be completely prevented, it would also make sense by means of reasonable smaller intervention programmes to help alleviate problems, in the case of municipalities in public works, which unfortunately are not formally allowed, to take a major step in this area. So, I propose a more intensive involvement of public works in the area where this is most necessary. Specific desires have also appeared in Prekmurje, but I believe they are elsewhere. Thus, by carrying out simple and auxiliary works, it might be possible to prevent certain disasters or damage to agricultural crops by two or three workers in winter months. I'm asking both ministers: Is there a willingness for such tasks?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digač Dark will be the first to respond. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Thank you, Member, for the question. I have good news, we have already prepared at the Ministry a supplement to the content of the public works programme, entitled Aid in the event of major accidents, so all those key foundations will be ready for such public works in the coming year. This amendment therefore constitutes a sub-programme for aid in the event of major accidents and, therefore, public works may also be carried out in 2015 in the case of aid in the event of major accidents, assistance in the organisation, coordination of parts, assistance in the collection of data required by public service providers for the preparation and implementation of plans for the recovery of natural disasters, manual maintenance, assistance in the recovery of damaged equipment, simple facilities, assistance in monitoring the occurrence of pests and diseases. Some more good news. We have already started, last week was a meeting of a key contractor, this is the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, and the Institute has prepared key documents that are the basis for both contracting entities and contractors, namely, the announcement of the publication is already available online, a catalogue of public works programmes. Because you need to know that actually public works are carried out in such a way that we have subscribers and contractors. In some cases, municipalities may also be contracting authorities and contractors at the same time, but otherwise they are generally operators of a non-profit organisation. We want to encourage public works because public works are the most effective activation measure or some way of creating jobs and thus the chances of hiring the most vulnerable among us. This year we predicted 9 thousand inclusions, that is the most during the entire period of Slovenia's independence, but unfortunately some municipalities did not take advantage of it, so that we now have 7 thousand 29 jobs. Because the municipalities need to co-finance a certain share. An example of good practice – I have a press conference tomorrow in the Park of the Škocjanska Cave – is the removal of the consequences of greed when the then government decided to set up a special programme of public works to remedy the damage, and in particular together, because we had a good cooperation with the Employment Institute and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which had been in the field all the time and coordinated the work, we find that we have actually met broader social objectives and at the same time given the opportunity to activate the unemployed. Unfortunately, the problem in all this is only financial resources. The 2015 budget, which is currently in force, is significantly less earmarked for public works than we had this year. I believe that we will achieve together here that we will increase these funds because we know that this will reduce the pressure on monetary compensation and we have more positive results. If I conclude, there is no need for any systemic change, the programme is already such that it can be realised in this direction that public workers will help to remedy such disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irena Majcen, you still have a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you. Dear Member! The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which carries out regular maintenance work, has already concluded three-partite agreements with interested municipalities on the regulation of mutual relations for the co-financing of maintenance works on watercourses. In the context of the possible involvement of municipalities in the maintenance of watercourses, the activities of cooperation with municipalities through public works could also be included, in particular as assistance to simpler parts: in the maintenance and cleaning of secondary watercourses such as sections for growth, baskets of coastal and coastal land.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u140	Thank you so much for the encouraging news. Before I was able to finish the specific question, I had already received some good answers. I would therefore point out, however, that, above all, I also meant to emphasise the works that are simpler and which go into this context, which you mentioned in the end. However, as far as Mrs Dark's answer is concerned, I am particularly pleased with the intentions, but, as always, the problem with money will be, unfortunately, a problem, however, I think that in such cases, with certain transfers, a number of things can also be prevented. Please, or we want this to happen. Since in the case of Prekmurje, I know the situation there best, even the smallest interventions could have prevented a number of disasters, which unfortunately happened a few weeks ago. At the end of the day, I might ask this. You have indicated that calls have already been made for the conclusion of tripartite contracts, said Minister Majcnova. Is there a concrete proposal and the question of a specific mayor - because we also have such cases - or is there an even simpler and simpler way to prevent any bureaucratic problems that can then hinder the actual realization of a project here?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Will you answer that? Mrs. Anya Digač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u142	I may just say, as far as public works are concerned, it is best that the mayors turn to the district office that covers their area, usually in the field, and this cooperation also exists, where it is the easiest. Now it will be, especially since we know that public works are on the move over the course of the year, so now they are a call for next year. At the moment, the decision on which public works will go, whether or not to provide the necessary 15 % of the resources to co-finance these public works must fall primarily within the local community, because we know that public works are mainly paid by the State, 85 %, by the rest of the local community, except for the most vulnerable categories, for example, if you are employed as a public worker of a disabled person or any other difficult to employ, and this amount of State subsidy is 100 %. It is now particularly time for local communities to agree on how, which priority problems will be solved by public works. However, in the following year we will also be redistributing, as we did last year, about 2 000 300 public workers, and we have redeployed over the course of 2013, so we have more resources and we have included 4 thousand 500, and this year the original wish was 9,000, now the end of the year will probably be 7 thousand 29. It is sad that the funds have been provided and we have now redistributed them because there has been no realisation in the local environment, so the possibility was for almost 2,000 more public workers. However, if we only say that because we have opened so many public works, so many more unemployed, these long-term, longest vulnerable ones among us, efficiency has increased in the employment of the long-term unemployed this year by 54% compared to last year, which shows, of course, the great impact of public works on the employment of those who are most long-term unemployed in our country. However, it is also important to consider how to make public works more effective, for example, even after direct State subsidies are no longer available, which is also an issue of connection to perhaps social enterprises and other forms where they might find these forms of rehabilitation interesting. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Majcen, you only have half a minute. Okay, thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members! General social and economic development in the world and Slovenia increasingly burdens the natural environment. Natural resources as a basis for faster development are increasingly polluted, dried and only slowly recovered. Leadership is one of the agents of space regulation, and it is therefore essential that the transition to the regulation and management of water in space be moved. Among other things, due to inadequate policy in this area, we have witnessed catastrophic floods in Slovenia in recent years. Natural streams are almost always too small for very high flows, water crosses the hills and floods the land, depending on the flow. We can say that in Slovenia, catastrophic floods, which could not be prevented by technical measures, are almost non-existent. In the past, many studies have been carried out, and we also have concrete projects on the table, but the financing of all of this has been left unknown in recent years because of the decline in water resources. We probably agree, Madam Minister, that if a quantity of water such as the one in the flood area falls over the past three weeks, it is likely that it is difficult to stop this matter, but that some of the measures we know and which would be feasible with financial assistance could still insure or even prevent this damage. For example, the country can do much in the area of flood protection, in particular through the following measures: increasing the flow capacity of flood-prone watercourses, building high-water facilities across urban and cultivated areas, building buildings that hold up the high-water wave, and so on. Unfortunately, we are also increasingly moving away from this measure, as the government is also lower in the budget balance for these areas. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled amendments to this balance, where we have proposed that the funds for this area be returned, but the coalition Members have unfortunately rejected us. For this reason, I really don't understand what words will have to be done, what will have to be done, and once the vote or action takes place, there will be completely different ideas and ideas. That is why, Madam Minister, I specifically ask you: How will you take a comprehensive watercourse management approach in the Republic of Slovenia? When will a national watercourse management strategy be prepared and when can we expect the implementation to begin? When can we expect to begin work in the most threatened flood areas? Will you provide EUR 25 million for regular maintenance works on watercourses, as promised in the Tarč programme? If not, why not? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you. Commissioner Jean Mahnic, I admit that there are still some questions on this subject. I say that the answer will always be the same because the answer to, I would say, such a wide range of questions, of course, cannot be changed and adapted to questioners. Taking into account the climate situation – not in Slovenia – climate conditions affect the whole world – it is, of course, to talk about the provision of flood safety as 100% of the measure very illusory. Even in the response I will read, it is ready, we are not talking about 100% anti-flood safety, but we are talking about an increase in anti-flood safety and we are assessing it to 50%. I repeat this in terms of the fact that if such a quantity of rain falls as has fallen in these recent cases, that is 200 litres of rain in a few hours, then the construction of such a stream means that much has to be removed from space. In the past, water has to have its own space in the environment has not been given as much attention as it is now. But it is still time for us to do so, of course. Now, we at the Ministry have made this really complex area a priority because of the situation. And in the last 25 years, this problem or this situation has been devoted not only to a little money but also to a little attention. It is true, however, that two investments are currently being made in the operational programme 2007-2013, namely investments to ensure better flood safety in the Drava River area and in the Savinja River area. Last Sunday we had a working meeting in the government on this topic. At that time, not only the Ministry's representatives, but also the experts in this area and, of course, the whole government have been identified and decided to draw up an action plan. The action plan prepared by the working group will provide a set of the most urgent and feasible intervention and other construction works that can be carried out on Slovenian watercourses and water infrastructure as soon as possible, this is half a year, for the reason that we prevent further damage in the event of a recurrence of similar events in the future. The fact is that it is necessary to respond as soon as possible to the situation which, after all extreme flood events in 2014, we know that such events occurred in 2011 and 2010 and that there have been major injuries on Slovenian watercourses and water infrastructures in these events. In order to wait for a response by the end of the year or by mid-2015 when a long-term and comprehensive plan to reduce flood risk in the Republic of Slovenia is prepared, it would be unacceptable and irresponsible. That means the government is on the move. The implementation of the most urgent intervention measures will be the most successful measure in the short term, while we must and are already preparing other measures that need to be implemented for a longer time, in order to improve the situation of control or improvement of flood risk in the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to mention them in this place: provide more resources for the regular maintenance of watercourses and water infrastructure – I know that in the media now they want to show me as if I had promised something, it was not my promise, it was my decision or I would say, in this process the government has committed itself to it, I may have said it in a less corrective way. So, it's not my promise, it's one of the approaches that the government will be more committed to this topic. More in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Complementation of the question, Mr. Jan Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Thank you for that answer, Madam Minister, even though I did not get everything I wanted to hear. As you said, today there will be many questions on this subject, which means only one thing, that this topic is important and that we are Members, whether we are in the coalition or in the opposition, of this we are united. I welcome it, it's not an ideological topic, it's a security matter, it's the lives of our people, their property. If we're going anywhere, then we really need to get together on this subject and do something. I believe we all agree on that. Despite the fact that I come from the Poljanska Valley, as you know, the Municipality of Gorenja Vas - Poljane and Jury have been very affected, you yourself have seen this area. Let me tell you something, Madam Minister, look, the budget of the Municipality of Gorenje Vas - Poljane will be around €10 million, the damage will be about €5 million. At the time, you said that you would help with about 400,000 euros, now the number is already 130,000, so I don't know if anything is holding or nothing is holding. By, for example, costing only the bridge EUR 45 000, the road in Kladja 40 000, in Vinharje 10 000, the fishing family has damage of EUR 12 000 and so on. So that even those of your 130 000 euros will disappear quickly, I have listed only some of the most visible measures that are urgently needed to avoid talking about all others that have been caused as damage, especially on local roads. I keep listening: dedicate myself to dedication. Yes, you will come with some conclusions, but please tell me – when? Once again, Madam Minister: You said in Target that you would provide 25 million euros. Will you? And if not, why? You're saying we keep lowering funds on these items, yes, and we're lowering them in the balance sheet again. You're the Minister of Environment and Space! Look at the budget items under the Ministry you run. Obviously, I don't know if you've looked at the budget, but you obviously don't know what the numbers are, so I'd like to ask you again for these specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you. It's not nice that we're here explaining things differently than they were given in the field. When I was on the ground in the Polish Valley, I said that at the Ministry we would provide financial resources for the urgent cleaning of watercourses, because I am aware of this, also from the practice I have experienced in the past, that one elemental event could be followed very quickly by another. And from this title, we also provided the Ministry with funds by which the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia immediately approached to clean up all those watercourses that were damaged in the context of the capture. They weren't just in the Poljanska Valley, they were somewhere else. The Ministry of the Environment and Space has been empowered to do so. For any other means, including after recovery after the basic accidents, the Ministry is competent under the programme adopted by the Government. However, for the preparation of the programme there are legal provisions, one among them is that, of course, the damage must amount to so much or be so high, then the Government takes the decision to prepare the programme and then the Government provides funds for such a programme. This means that the Ministry of the Environment or I, as Minister, know that I cannot promise something that I cannot do. And it wasn't promised on my part. However, as regards the means of maintaining watercourses, there is no problem, there will be a need to provide these resources within the water fund, regardless of who the minister is, because the measures to be implemented are necessary. Once again, not only after the floods this year, the floods in 2010-2012 have not yet been adequately resolved. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why this year’s damage was higher than it would have been. As far as the rest of the answer is concerned, I admit that, of course, there is less time now, but I am prepared to give a more comprehensive answer when these questions continue to arise.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for your reply, Minister, although I still haven't gotten the last one on the 25 million you said in the Tarč show on the field. Let me just read what I read in the Slovenian News this morning. It's called Million for the new Ars's offices, but it's not to edit watercourses. The Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia has €7.6 million available for regular maintenance of watercourses this year, €6.3 million for the removal of the effects of the acorn and €3.5 million for urgent work after the fall storms, although it would need €25 million per year to regulate watercourses. And the money was found for the new agency building, where the lab will be. This will cost €32.9 million. So it's going to be €6.3 million in rehabilitation, and it's going to be almost 33. Madam Minister, I believe you can't keep an eye on everything, but the attitude of your people at the Ministry says a lot of things. I called the Ministry twice last week. I wanted to make an appointment with one of the secretary of state, and I haven't heard back yet. On the same day as the floods, I called the Secretary of Defense, Janko Weber, who was at the meeting, who took the call. And in this place, the Minister also thanks what the Slovenian Army has done in this area. I also called Dr. Gaspersich on the same day, and the minister immediately answered my phone. However, in one week it is impossible to obtain not a secretary of state, but a term for a secretary of state. Look. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u153	Mr. Member and you're proposing? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u154	Yes, of course, and also this, I would ask you on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, but I request, I request a discussion. [[…]] And I ask the other Members and Members to support me in this. As I said before, it's not an ideological theme, I've just highlighted the valley of Poland. We know that the problems are also in the other areas from which you come from and that a debate is being held on this subject because the problems are also elsewhere. Cleaning watercourses, we know you're going to have big problems with this, Natura 2000, there we can't cut the hills because they say there's a bird nest there that no one's ever seen before. I am asking for your support, and I hope that we will take this matter seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u155	Mr Member, we will vote on your proposal on Wednesday 19 November in the framework of the votes. Mr Benedict Kopmajer has the floor, and he will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u156	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are very concerned about recent developments, statements and positions of the most responsible at the Ministry of Infrastructure concerning the third development axis. The northern part was a priority in the construction of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia and had priority, and today the northern part is so forgotten. As can be seen from the motion for a resolution on the national transport development programme in Slovenia, some sections of the Korean roads cannot be expected to improve until 2030 and 2040. From this we can conclude that Koroška will be cut off for a long time. The fact is that the third development axis for Koroška and for the Republic of Slovenia is of particular importance and should have a priority in all aspects of regional and national development. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Who is responsible for preparing documentation for the third development of the axis? Why was there a backlog at the north end? What measures will make up for the backlog? A national spatial plan has already been adopted for the Velenje–Slovenia route. That's why I want to know: At what stage are the activities for the preparation of project documentation and the purchase of land? Does this section fall under the jurisdiction of Dars or the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads? I would also ask for a future construction plan for this section during the new financial period 2014-2020. A study of the traffic load of Korean roads was carried out in 2012. Why did the government resolve to do so? Who was the instigator, and who was the performer? Amount of costs, when has the invitation to tender been issued and who has applied for it? Why have the results not been publicly presented to the interested Korean public? I am also interested in previous studies, the results of these studies and how the results differ between the previous and the last studies. I want to know: Is there a possibility of a public-private partnership at the Ministry because of the lack of money in the budget to speed up the modernisation of state transport infrastructure and the construction of a fast road? Finally, I expect a presentation of a complete timeline for the construction of a fast road on the section A1 to Holmec. I am aware that the answers to my questions will be extensive and require a lot of details, so today I expect you to give me detailed answers in writing in addition to today's oral answer as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Member of the Commission, thank you for the question raised. In addition to the transversal link between the two motorway corridors, the third development axis project also enables the interconnection of the major urban centres, thus ensuring adequate accessibility and connectivity with international flows. In terms of implementation, this project represents an investment in transport infrastructure, which is economic, financial and technically extensive, difficult and long-term, which we can all be sure of. If I'm just going to these sub-questions that you've given me. With regard to responsibility for the preparation of the project documentation, in the spatial placement process for the northern part of the third development axis of the MIF, the Ministry of Infrastructure, acting as the initiator for the development of State spatial plans, the Ministry of Environment and Space, acting as the coordinator of the preparation and Dars acting as the investor of this placement in space. Reason for deviation from the original time schedules for the preparation of individual State spatial plans. There's more than one cause. On the northern part of the third development axis we can point out the following, this is the social and environmental inadmissibility of the route on the section from the Šentrupert on the Šentilj-Koper motorway to the Velenje-south connection, this is the first part above the highway. Then there is the re-assessment of the transport economic eligibility of the original design points at the section from Velenje to Dravograd and the unacceptable investment costs and monetary valuation of the benefits at the section from the Otijsko vrh to the international border crossing Holmec and, of course, the environmental problems in the central corridor between Velenje and the Foundation, which is, from a transport and economic point of view, the only feasible. Regarding this second section, which is already installed, it is said between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec, and I explain the following. Thus, following the adoption of the Regulation on the State Spatial Plan in August 2013, Dars launched activities to obtain the environmental impact report necessary to obtain the environmental consensus, which is then necessary for the completion of the environmental impact assessment process. The environmental consent process is expected to be completed in the first half of 2015 and will also create project conditions for the preparation of documentation projects for this section. Furthermore, the activities relating to the preparatory parts will be carried out on behalf and on behalf of the State, by the DARS, which, in accordance with the Law on the Society for Motorways and in accordance with the existing and already adopted Resolutions on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, performs the task of acquiring property and rights in the Republic of Slovenia. So this preparatory work is going to be done by the DARS. However, the construction plan will be possible to define after completion of the preparatory works or after the issuance of the building permit and the appropriate funding method of the project. With regard to the transport burden study, at its 35th meeting on 25 October 2012, the Government adopted a decision concerning the northern part of the third development axis, which concluded that at the section of Slovenj Gradec-Dravograd the traffic load of the current road network and its forecast for the planned planning period no longer fully justified the initial planned road profile and therefore made sense to examine the modernisation of the existing road. On the basis of that decision, DARS commissioned, in early 2013, the development of a new transport model for the whole impact area, from Austria to the Kope-Sentilj motorway. This initial study was carried out by OMEGA Consult in 2008, and for this new study, the tender was followed by the PNZ company from Ljubljana. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Yeah, time's running out really fast. There were no significant differences between the two studies, in fact, the biggest differences were due to the expected impact of the economic crisis, but in fact, traffic flows are expected after both studies. The development of the transport model is, of course, a professional basis, which in itself [[sign for the end of the debate]] but this will be done within the individual stages of spatial placement in space. Maybe this, sections that will be built as a four-passenger, will be tolled and built [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Koppermeyer, are you satisfied? Complement? Here you go. Yeah, thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u160	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Two or three months from now, two years from I am a member of the National Assembly, and I must say that I am two to three months from now, regardless of who the Minister was responsible for the space or I can also say infrastructure, asking how far away he is with the preparation of the national housing programme. In short, today we can see that it was very much done if we consider it to be a work to write and accept. In practice, however, nothing has been done, and nothing has been adopted. I have the National Housing Programme, 2013-2022, the draft was published on 20 March 2014. The accompanying material has also been added to the draft prepared by the Directorate for Space, a total of 150, 160 pages. Mr Omerzel then said that this was an excellent national housing programme and that it did not need to be complemented at all. Then, suddenly, before all this political instability and the collapse of the government of Alenka Bratušek came, he said that this was not a real model and that something new needed to be prepared. So I have here in my hands a draft national housing programme from early June 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: How will you focus on solving this problem, that is, preparing the national housing programme itself? However, since I am a young man and a lot of my peers ask me what the country will do in this regard, I would also like to be answered in some way in the light of the problems of young people. In fact, statistics show that in Slovenia we are at the very top of the European Union after the proportion of young people aged 18 to 34 who live with their parents, that is, I think, two thirds. This is worrying, the worse trends are only in Greece, but I don't think anyone here wants to compare. At the same time, I would also like to point out that GURS data show that in Slovenia there are more than 75,000 dwellings empty, which is a major social imbalance and a hopeless situation for young people. Dear Madam Minister: Please, if you'll give me your specific activities. Are you planning to include young people in the reception process of the National Housing Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer, Mrs. Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thank you. Commissioner Andrej Chuš, I regret to repeat to a certain extent the answer you have already received to similar questions in the past. It is true, therefore, that so far the only national housing programme has been adopted in the 2009 National Assembly, that a draft new national housing programme has been prepared in 2011 and that the government has then fallen and a new draft has been prepared in 2013. Well, in the spring of this year, there was the material you presented when Mr Omerzel himself, the former Minister, put his material into informal public disclosure. The new government has written down in its coalition agreement that we will prepare a new national housing programme, which will carry the year 2014-2020, and it is unlikely that this year 2014 will be the year 2015, in which this housing programme will be prepared to respond to the current housing needs of individual housing categories, especially young, young families, older people and households with income under a certain price. However, the government or coalition has made a clear commitment that the national housing programme will be one of its tasks and that is why we continue intensively with the preparation of the national housing programme at the Ministry of Environment and Space. As it is known that young people with access to housing, due to fixed-term employment and relatively low initial incomes, have greater problems than some other groups of residents, it is for this group that a solution is being prepared in the national housing programme, which increases access to rents in particular. In the discussion, measures to reduce the risk of lending to banks and the draft we are preparing are more than yet engaged in intergenerational cooperation. The solutions to be submitted to both the Government and the National Assembly will only be definitively addressed after the re-publicisation and coordination to be carried out at ministerial level. Therefore, I cannot yet talk about the final coordinated solutions. A working group is set up to review the comments of the informal public decommissioning and to incorporate meaningful comments into a new draft, which will, of course, be forwarded to the Government after its adoption and then forwarded to the formal decommissioning. I feel that this will be difficult to resolve by the end of December, but that we can succeed, and that in January is the last time we have to succeed. At the same time, we will coordinate important definitions with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, which we focus on in this work mainly on two populations with which we would also like to undertake two consultations, the younger population and the older population. We all know that many apartments are occupied so that only one person can live in a larger apartment. If we give special attention to this population, we can solve a lot of things and complete them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Andrey Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, somehow, I cannot be satisfied with your answer and, in fact, do not give me any optimism in advance. We have also adopted a National Youth Programme in the National Assembly, which has dealt in several points with the problem of young people, from employment, participation, educational system, including housing issues, and that I hold in my hands all these programming guidelines, which the Youth Council of Slovenia has prepared and adopted. If you have not yet received them from the government, of course I will take it upon myself to get this right time to read something. But I'm also disappointed that I got some old answers. The government of Mir Cerar advocated a new policy, that is, we are not fit. And you're reading our old answers here today. As regards the key challenges facing young people's housing problems in the future, however, I would like to say that young people's housing is as difficult to afford as you can see for yourself, while permanent rents are not enough. However, when it comes to renting apartments, young people face many challenges today. I would also like to say that urban planning and public transport systems often do not take into account the needs of young people. As a result of the ownership structure of dwellings in Slovenia, it is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to register a permanent residence, which is the basis for the exercise of their rights. But I would like to conclude by telling you that we have 75,000 empty apartments, only to offer them. If this is difficult to do, then it is best that the entire government resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please. No, no, no. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Chush Andrey.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u166	Yeah, well, actually, I said a few questions at the beginning, but I'd still like to say: How will you work with civil society and representatives of the youth sector?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u168	As I have said, there have been many proposals, many opinions, and many opinions, that there will be two more consultations at a time when the programme will be prepared for this content. It's consultation with young people and it's consultation with the elderly. At this time, there is a great potential for involving or preparing more appropriate solutions, such as the current solutions in the existing programme. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Labour itself is obliged to cooperate with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as well as with the Ministry of Finance, due to financial obligations arising from such a way of preparing solutions. At the same time, I could argue that rent subsidies currently, as set out, represent the amount of resources to be provided in the budget to an extent unforeseeable. Indeed, the recipients of these subsidies are linked not only to apartments owned by the State but also to dwellings owned by the municipality, and the extent of this co-financing for the whole group is too large or to such an extent that it is not manageable. It is therefore necessary to provide for a solution that will be manageable or that can be monitored through existing systems and subsidised to those eligible for subsidies. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Of course, I apologize for allowing it. The Minister changed her mind, answered the question you asked, but so I did. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you one last time. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response. And not only are we criticizing, but we're primarily helping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u171	We will discuss your proposal and vote on Wednesday, 19 November. Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. He will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen and the Prime Minister of the Government in his capacity as Minister without a resource responsible for the development of the strategic project and the cohesion of Dr Miroslav Cerar, who is duly absent from 13:00. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that the thematic field of flood safety has already been partially exhausted and that the answer has already been partially given, I would like to avoid some duplication with my question, and I am adapting it to what we have already heard today. In only three municipalities in the Škofje Loka area, the latest floods have caused damage of about €15 million, and we are talking only about one of the affected areas in one of the five floods. The President of the Government, Miro Cerar, would like to face this situation – and here I quote the position we have heard at today’s meeting – measures of some 10,000 euros. That's what we've all heard here today. Mr President, if you're kidding, this is a bad joke. However, when we put such an intervention aside — and this was stated in the same breath — the unsalted nature becomes a priority project of this government. From the President of the Government in his role as Minister for Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion, and from the Minister for Environment and Space, I would like to know: How will the Action Plan to be drawn up by the Working Group be implemented immediately? Next thing I know, Do you know what resources are envisaged for the overall management of watercourses, in general, compared to the damage resulting from them? What are the expected effects of such public investments on the economy? I raise the question with the desire to put intervention measures, the dimension of the area and the positive effects of comprehensive regulation in the appropriate context and to take approaches to this. In conclusion, this is available to me from the Court of Auditors' audit: How and how will you ensure that projects to be implemented through European funds will be carried out transparently and in what way will you ensure that the Court of Auditors’ opinion is not negative next time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you are, of course, responding to that part which has already been sent in writing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u174	Thank you. I would like to say that, this year, the Ministry of Environment and Space has ensured the maintenance of watercourses of €18.7 million. With the programme or plan, the action plan for the next 6 months, the measures we will prepare will ensure the recovery of flood damage, as I said this year, because these floods are already strong principles of stability of the trunks, even the flow of the rods is reduced, especially in those parts where the shafts in their trough have flooded a lot of material, whether it is stones or it is fallen wood, and all of this must, of course, be cleaned out of the trunks. In the following year, an anti-floating security plan should be drawn up covering investments. Thousands of 200 are such areas in Slovenia where floods occur. 61 areas have been selected from these areas, where flood threats are higher. And it is for these areas that a set of investments is necessary. As you have already said, the studies are large, everything needs to be reviewed and the documentation prepared for each of these flood-prone areas. Two investments are currently under way and two investments are called for for the acquisition of construction permit projects. It is the arrangement of Gradašćica and it is the arrangement of Selščica. In the preparation of projects, which will be implemented from European funds in the future – a multi-annual financial period 2014-2020 – and, as already mentioned today, of course, these investment funds or such assistance to Europe in the implementation of these projects can be even more and a team will certainly have to be formed. I am saying this from the fact that the existing staff cannot manage such a large portfolio of investments. It is so that there is currently one person within the Water Directorate who is employed in this anti-floating security. It is true that other persons also work very hard in cooperation, which is necessary in the case of works on watercourses, is a bilateral, so it is Italy, Slovenia, and trilateral, so it is Mura, Drava and neighbouring municipalities. Indeed, even within these procedures, they are, of course, working out or looking for solutions to flood security. I mean, even at the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is concerned about maintenance itself, this employment is currently so reduced that in the future it will be necessary to cooperate more widely with municipalities, which appears to be a problem now, it will be necessary to ensure not only more resources, but also more people, that the work will take place smoothly or that it will be part of fewer comments. Therefore, for the Court of Auditors, the following anti-floating investments are indicatively financed by the Cohesion Fund. Savinja river basin, completion of phase one projects and continuation of priority investments for the integrated flood management of Savinja river basin with inflows. The scope and more precise interventions will be determined on the basis of the results of the hydrological-hydraulic analysis carried out by the entire Savinja basin, which will also take into account the anti-floating measures already carried out in the Savinja area carried out in the period 2007-2013. Continue the project to ensure flood management of the Drava basin, completion of first-stage projects and continuation of priority investments to reduce the flood risk of the Ptuj Drava: Lower Duplek–Ptuj. Ordering of the River Between and Thinking, reducing flood risk: Dravograd, Prevalje, Ravne na Koroškem, Black na Koroškem, Žerjav. Gradašćica is about reducing the flood threat: Ljubljana – South and Dobrova, Brezje pri Dobrova. The flood regime of Selska Sora is intended to reduce the flood threat in the railways. As regards the preparation of the response report or the preparation of measures for the Court of Auditors, time and systemically [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u175	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Thank you very much to the Minister for a comprehensive presentation. It was very instructive, practically transparent, walking across the entire area. Unfortunately, however, in this answer and in this presentation, there was little more to what I was interested in and the questions that I asked. If I repeat just one, that's the one that I find the most exciting and most problematic: What are the necessary resources for the overall management of watercourses, in general, compared to the damage resulting? What are the expected effects of such public investments on the economy? I ask this because in such a systematic manner I would approach the regulation of such an area or believe that it is the right way to go. However, I do not really expect any very different response from what I have received today, but I suggest that we address this subject, such as the call to this assembly today, at one of the future meetings or at the next meeting. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u177	Thank you. Madam Minister, do you still wish to give an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. At a time when floods threaten life and, of course, property and floods make sure that not only buildings are flooded, but also in the vicinity of buildings, they save and establish a situation for everyday life and normal life, a large number of 600 million is used as if with 600 million to solve everything. I don't want to use this number in particular because when I ask how this number of 600 million, which projects are covered in this number of 600 million, I don't get the right answer. Well, the roughest estimate of experts is that this number is supposed to be enough. I hope to say that this real grave grave number will be given within the preparation of the plan for the implementation of the flood measures to be taken next year. I'm going to use that number myself, because it's too action-oriented to use some numbers, if only that much money is needed, and we're going to be saved, at a time when natural captures really hurt us, and it doesn't seem to me that much of a citizen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Kordish, your proposal will be discussed and voted on Wednesday 19 November. Dr. Franz Križanič will raise the question to the Minister of Defence, Mr Janko Webr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u180	Dear President, colleagues, ministers! Each society responds to critical situations such as natural disasters, other accidents, conflicts, military conflicts, including security complications, depending on its tradition, according to the culture of participation of the population, including technical culture, knowledge, human capital, which it has at its disposal. In recent times – some of my colleagues have already noticed and mentioned – we have been pleased to note that the Minister of Defence has been able to increase the flexibility of the defence subsystems of our society, in particular by actively involving the military in dealing with the consequences and rapid response to the recent floods. This has led to my assessment to the introduction of some kind of integrated approach, which, of course, is also possible in the opposite direction and to the expansion of the defence base in other areas when it comes to them. The question is: How does the system of response and cooperation between the Slovenian Army, the protection and rescue system work, especially with firefighters and especially with the local community, at the events themselves, and at the rehabilitation of affected areas? Are you planning activities or updates in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u181	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you also for the question to Mr Križanič. If I touch on developments in Slovenia, then I think it can really be a very quick assessment that there is a very high risk of natural disasters in Slovenia. It is also appropriate to organise, respond, in order to preserve lives and, lastly, assets at risk due to natural disasters. On this occasion, of course, I would also like to thank both firefighters, members of Civil Protection, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and, of course, other units involved in the rescue, of course, here is also the municipal companies and, finally, all the mayors and mayors who participated in this difficult situation. However, I can say that the system works successfully because we have a very large number of volunteers involved in this system. Without volunteer firefighters, I can't imagine that we could respond so effectively to natural disasters as we do in recent times when we are faced with an extraordinary intensity of natural disasters. However, it is of course important that the work of all those involved is also very coordinated. Let me say that the Slovenian Army has a plan of action for this purpose in the event of natural disasters, called Vihra. The purpose of this programme is that the Slovenian Armed Forces are trained to respond to the protection of military facilities, which, of course, can be exposed as well as all others due to natural disasters. As part of these activities, of course, this programme also includes the integration of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces into the system of civilian facilities and life-saving, if necessary. To this end, I would like to point out that we are maintaining all 13 regional centres with civil protection headquarters and all 13 regional centres are also members of the Slovenian Army. A member of the Slovenian Armed Forces or an officer in this system is also responsible for monitoring the functioning and coordination of all measures, so that we really include all the structures and opportunities we have to be effective in doing so. Many times, of course, it is also necessary to agree precisely on how to carry out certain activities, and here I must say that there is also direct communication between the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Commander of Civil Protection, who is also the one who actually determines when members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are involved in the rescue. Here I would like to point out that we are waiting first for the reaction of the Civil Protection Commanders on the ground, and if they estimate that due to fatigue or too few volunteers, all these units need to be strengthened, of course, then the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces will also be activated in this environment. We want this system to be even better built and upgraded, so we will be holding a meeting with the municipalities during this period, one of which is actually organised tomorrow and will take place in the region of Gorenje. The purpose of these consultations is to inform the Civil Protection Commander in detail, both the representatives of the municipality and of course all other units involved in the resolution system, of the integration and handling procedure in the event of natural disasters. This is something that we find that we still need to upgrade, because in some cases it is found that it is taking too long to include units of the Slovenian Army, and there is also the exhaustion of volunteers, firefighters and, of course, the possibility of injury. This is one of the measures we have started or will be implemented tomorrow. However, I would like to give some other measures as soon as I have time to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u183	Thank you. Dr. Crossman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. I think there's something else to finish, we'd just wait and listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u185	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u186	Among other measures – in addition to training and learning – I also plan to improve the operation in a way that we will try to organise a special unit that will be able to engage more quickly for the rescue needs. At this moment, I can say that the Vihra programme envisages the inclusion of thousands of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but all together we want to specialize precisely in order to make us even faster and more effective in any emergency. To this end we also anticipate the organisation of a special group of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which will number 120 or more. This programme is still coming and will be presented to the public in a short time when it will, of course, be produced. However, the unit itself is expected to include different generations of the Slovenian Army, according to the needs that will happen on the ground. Here too, we want to get closer to these challenges because we are even more effective. Let me also mention that this moment is a very extensive project, which, on the initiative and on the basis of experience within the protection and rescue administration in Slovenia, has also been carried over within the European Union system, so the so-called eKlic will also be introduced in 2015. This is a technology that will be installed in cars that will tell us at the time of the worst traffic accident, which vehicle it is, where it is located, how many participants are involved in this traffic accident, whether it is possible to communicate with them, because without the use of the phone the participants in the accident will be able to communicate with our regional information centres over 112. Of course, this is one system that we are building through the Telekom network that we have in Slovenia, just to effectively implement all measures in both the area of protection and resolution administration and defence needs. These are very important steps, for the time we reduce in the event of accidents is crucial to maintaining life. Our development will go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u187	I thank Minister Webru for his answer. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Majcnov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, in 2008 the mayors of 12 municipalities and representatives of the Maribor water pipeline signed an inter-agency agreement on mutual cooperation in the project Celovite supply of North-East Slovenia with drinking water. It is a project to rebuild the water system in municipalities, an investment worth more than €14 million, co-financed from municipal budgets, from the state budget and in particular from the cohesion fund. Let me say that after 2008, the contract was concluded in June 2010, during which time, following calls for proposals, after the conclusion of the contract, there were a number of liquidations of construction companies due to the financial crisis that we are familiar with. As a result, the tenders had to be repeated and then the project was launched in 2012. In this project, which was completed last year, 53 kilometres of water were built, especially the key water pipeline through the Slovenian Mountains, it is a key quality supply of Slovenian mountains with drinking water, where the pipes in the water systems were still old, asbestos, where there were numerous fractures, where there was a lot of water spills, it was also an intrusion of feces and others into this water system. And when the project was completed last year, we also received 3 new water food and a number of pumping sites. Let me say that the pipeline has also contributed quality infrastructure connections to a number of spindle zones. Also in order to build a future thermal bath in Benedict, we needed an infrastructure connection to flow about 20 litres per second due to the need for a hotel and a number of apartment settlements. Unfortunately, municipalities owe their debt – a project financed by about 70% of cohesion funds, about 16% of municipal budgets and about 12% of all additional funds should be paid by the Ministry of Agriculture, now the Ministry of the Environment. Let me say that I have already asked this question in the previous term to Minister Židan twice because we have not yet received the money paid. This is more than €2 million. These municipalities had to rent a number of bridging loans at that time, i.e. short-term loans that are due to expire at the end of the year. I therefore ask you again as the Ministry of the Environment: When will the municipalities of the state budget be reimbursed for borrowing loans to cover the financial share of the State in co-financing the project? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u189	Thank you for asking. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u190	Dear Member Franz Breznik. The project Comprehensive supply of North-East Slovenia with drinking water, which includes these investments and under which new constructions and hydraulic improvements are carried out, has indeed had a number of unsuspectingly bad things at the time of implementation, numerous bankruptcys of construction workers. There were also some uncertainties and shortcomings in the implementation of the project, on the part of the municipalities. Even on the Ministry's side, not everything was in an ideal situation, I hope to say. The porting municipality has engaged the implementation of external advisers. This year has proved to be very positive, as the project documentation is now in place. The Ministry of Transport signed the missing co-financing contracts for the port municipality, while some annexes to co-financing contracts are still in the process of signing them. We want them signed as soon as possible. These acts will then allow for the co-financing of payments from the European Cohesion Policy items in 2014. The 2014 Rebalancing is, of course, part of this financial structure. In view of the fact that time is still available by the end of the year and the control procedures that the Ministry of Environment and Space in the role of the intermediate body must carry out before any payment of the payment request under the headings of the European Cohesion Policy, we will therefore pay the beneficiaries or pay them off during the month of December and in the beginning of 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u192	Madam Minister, if I understand correctly, these Annexes will – as you know – have been justified because, as I mentioned earlier, it was up to a number of liquidations, a number of companies and then we had to somehow ensure that we find the new companies that participated in this project – now, if I understand, you will expect these funds to be paid back in the 2014 rebalancing period and the payments will continue in this year, and part will be made immediately at the beginning of next year. I hope I have the answer to your commitment. Believe me, as a member of the Slovenian Gorics, I am extremely stubborn about this because it is a matter of municipalities with extremely small budgets. I hope you are aware that because of the lack of action of the municipalities, not you, but the former Minister of the Jews, because of the extremely passive attitude, it was necessary to hire short-term loans, which some are also running out at the end of this year. For this reason, I hope and I believe that with the greatest energy you will somehow approach the solution to this problem, because these municipalities, which are also responsible for the failure of state institutions, are not responsible for their own fault, that is to say, the fault of the state. And somehow I'll ask you again, now as the new secretary. I'm not going to criticize you for the first time in my life. But believe me, if part of that money is not paid out in January, then I will ask that question again and I will insist. Thank you very much for the answer in this sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u194	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! Dear Minister of Health, we will probably both agree, one of the pressing problems in Slovenia is also the Slovenian health system. I believe that the health system in the Republic of Slovenia, as we know it today, needs thorough renovations, but not only the so-called quick ad hoc solutions, so-called intervention actions. And also one of the pressing problems of our health system is the system for negotiating a health service programme. Indeed, this system is such that the Health Insurance Office and the operator agree on a programme that the operator may implement during the year. Therefore, operators have a limited programme paid by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. In fact, this programme does not include all the needs of the debtors. All of this is also reflected in the compromised operation of certain health service providers and in waiting periods. According to media reports, UKC Ljubljana is in loss because it owes millions of dollars to its suppliers. According to data, 3 thousand 200 patients are expected to receive more treatment this year than the Health Insurance Institute did. This, Madam Minister, is a sort of planning economy in which we do not know who is drinking and who is paying. This data, I believe, confirms so much more the flaw of the system that the health of all citizens and citizens is in the hands of the same financier. It's a department. All citizens and citizens must be automatically members or automatically paid to the institution. Such an arrangement, to remind you, is unique in the European area and also gives rise to irresponsibility in the allocation of financial resources, as the correction of deficits in the Institute of Health Insurance is always financed by the State budget. We both know that. Madam Minister, in the end, the question is: How much is it worth and how will they arrange a multimillion-dollar loss in UKC Ljubljana so that it can work smoothly? And in connection with the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, I still have a question regarding the invitation to tender for the new director. By the way, I'd like to know: Does it hold information that knowledge of at least one foreign language is merely a recommendation but not one of the conditions for the occupation of a responsible place such as the Director of the Health Insurance Institute? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u195	Thank you for asking. Madam Secretary, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Mr Member, I agree with you that the Slovenian health system needs a comprehensive overhaul in view of the fact that we have not actually recorded any major changes in this system in the last 20 years. Perhaps with regard to the data you ask me about the loss at the Ljubljana Clinical Center, let me say that this loss amounted to €8.9 million over the six months and that the accumulated loss from previous years after the end of 2013 is €58.8 million. As you are aware, in order to remedy such a loss, it is necessary to change the systemic nature. For only, as you yourself have mentioned, fire action or one-off patching or action does not lead to the longevity of the financial sustainability of the Slovenian health system. Although I interviewed both the management of the Ljubljana Clinic Centre and the Director-General of the Health Insurance Institute as a health care provider, it must be said that the current system of accounting for so-called espies is obsolete, it is necessary to renovate, and that is why we have already joined the Ministry of Health in the framework of the working group to renovate this accounting system precisely for the reason that hospitals or those providing these services receive properly paid services for the work done. However, it should be stressed that this cannot be done from today to tomorrow, but we will try to find temporary at least solutions under Annex 2 to the 2015 general agreement and to a greater extent to the 2015 general agreement. We will also, in the long term, change the system of agreement on the payment of services. However, I must say that this is a problem of the entire health system, its accounting work, also in other hospitals, so that it can be slightly more exposed at the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. And maybe the answer to that last question of yours. Let me say that, under the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Statute of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, the Director-General of the Institute may designate those who fulfil the general conditions laid down by law by Article 74 of this Act, namely that they have a high professional education and at least five years of work experience which demonstrate that they have professional, managerial and organisational and other management skills to carry out this work and, of course, under the condition that they present an appropriate programme with a defined strategy for the development of health insurance. Both in accordance with the law and with the statute defining the tendering conditions, it is not envisaged that foreign language knowledge as a condition would be required.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u197	Thanks for the answer. Mr. Rotary requires a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u198	Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I'm partially satisfied, I mean, I can't be full, especially with another answer. But I would like to add, we actually have a problem with the Department of Health Insurance. If you ask me, the key problem is that there is no competition in this area or in the provision of basic health services, that we have one mega-Romanian ZZS, which manages more than 2 billion euros, there is no other competition. Then this ZZZS can do what he wants. We can also compare this with the area, but now it is not possible to compare car insurance with health insurance, by no means, but there is a lower price for services. In our case, that's not the case. I know you are not of the same opinion, but once again, I stress that more competition abroad works that prices are lower. Then who's in the better place? Yeah, there's better taxpayers who'll pay less in this cash register. As far as your answer to my second question is concerned. See, today, wherever you apply to any invitation to tender also in the public administration system, most of the invitations written in such a way that knowledge of at least one foreign language is needed, and in this case the invitation to tender gives the impression that the invitation to tender is adapted in advance. Such an impression arises that the invitation to tender is adapted in advance. Now, yes, according to the statute they stick to and by legislation, but the ZZ is such an organization that should have something more, something more than just a statute. Thus, citizens and citizens can have a legitimate opinion in this area, as it concerns the management of the CFSP, that this is a large conglomerate sitting on millions of euros, in billions, and this conglomerate is by no means the end that once fair [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u199	Thank you. Madam Minister, you want to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u200	See, the tendering procedure and the selection proposal for the director of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is led and carried out by the board of directors of this institution. It is appointed by the Assembly for a period of four years, and the consent of the National Assembly is needed. As I have already mentioned, this law, which is relatively old, has defined the conditions for who can run. Unfortunately, in these circumstances, knowledge of a foreign language is not required as a necessary condition. However, according to my opinion, the board of directors could not, of course, as a condition or as some exclusion criteria in this call, write that the desired knowledge of a foreign language is, of course, possible. However, this cannot then be an exclusion clause if this is not provided for in the law and the statute of the institution. So much for the last one. However, as regards competition, it is still necessary to explain to people that they will understand correctly. See, the competition of health services does not work as well as competition in all other activities. This is proved by many examples both in Europe and in the world. Competition in services and health service providers may partially work, and competition in the institution can not work if we are talking about the Health Insurance Institute where health service contributions are paid. Why? Because there are no elements to the so-called competition. Firstly, we have a prescribed rate of contribution by law, we have a prescribed method of collection, the law prescribes the amount of the base of the contribution, and most of the elements are prescribed by law. I don't see it in this part and I can tell you that, for example, many foreigners, the latest cases show, say, what happened in Slovakia, what happened when they introduced a large number of insurance companies, they simply got the premiums and costs of the healthcare system into the sky. And now they are trying, and even some of the international complaints to the advisors who have suggested this to them are put back in one small country as little as Slovenia is, again I would say in one system or in one treasury or one fund. It is important that this fund is properly managed and supervised. That's the key.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u201	Thank you. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek will ask the Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Given that one of the key issues of privatisation is both in Slovenia and in other transit countries, and that critical infrastructure, including transport, energy and telecommunications, is crucial, for example, our neighbours in Austria are already discussing that critical infrastructure is also a financial sector that needs to be protected, so I am interested, for the first time: Is the privatisation of Telekom over? What stage? Are Sečovlje salts part of this package, for it could lose part of the territory that is key to our territorial unity? And second of all: In addition to this package, are the first 15 companies sold part or any other part of the company or company as a whole? Since there is no minister, I would ask him to answer this question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u203	Thank you. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u204	But thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, distinguished ministers! Dear Minister of Infrastructure, on September 16th, then as a candidate for Minister at the presentation, you have made quite a stir in your statements. Among other things, you have stated that the completion of the road link Drazenci-Gruškovje is not an investment that should have been made as a priority, even if road links were to be established and that this would save only a few German tourists so that there would be no benefits for Slovenia and its citizens here. With your statement you have accumulated the anger of the mayors and the locals of Lower Podravje, so on 23 October you decided to visit Podlohnik, where you met with the local mayors. At that time, you ensured that the section would be completed in accordance with plans to delay only a few months because you were looking for opportunities to obtain additional European funds and that you were only misunderstood in the National Assembly. Believe me, we didn't, because we went back to reading the magnetogram. However, to all of us who live near this route, it is clear that it is not here for some German tourists, that the border crossing of Gruškovje annually crosses about 8 million cars and that it is here for people living along this route, it is about the development of the region, the economy and, finally, the development and reputation of Slovenia. There are not only long columns here during the summer months, but also just crossing the existing road at this time on this section, which is extremely dangerous. In many cases, without the additional involvement of police officers who actually stop traffic, crossing this road would not be possible at all. Perhaps you would also point out that we had 33 fatalities at this section. Let me explain that it is about building a 13km highway, with the last missing section on the entire railway network, and that the value of the investment is EUR 246 million. For the start of construction, everything is prepared, so to speak, the State Spatial Plan Regulation, the project is designed, environmental agreement is issued, all properties are bought except for a few plots, investment programmes produced and construction permits obtained for the construction of the first stage. Dear Minister: What is your position today on the construction of the Drazenci-Gruškov motorway? When will construction proceed, and what is it like? What delay are you talking about in completing this construction? And most of all, I want to know: How will this section be financed, what is the share of European funds, the share of own resources and how much additional debt will have to be made?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u205	Thank you for asking. Minister, Dr. Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u206	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much for asking. Yes, with regard to this section, the missing section, the only section on the high road, I'm really going to say with my discussions, I'm going to cause a whole series of responses. Still, I will say, my view of this section is such that this investment itself, I will say, has multiple effects on the economy of Slovenia as a whole does not bring very much. Of course, it brings great benefits to the population living on this missing highway, and of course it will bring great benefits especially for, I will say, all the traffic that transits the Republic of Slovenia along this road, and where, in particular, there are huge congestions during the summer. Now these congestions, for example, are not even that big in this period. At that time, I also somehow pointed out that even if the highway was built, these congestions would continue until the Schengen regime was exposed at the border crossing. Really, then, all you've stated is that then I visited these local communities at the end of October with my team. The mayors welcomed us then, and representatives of municipalities from neighbouring Croatia also invited us, where they explained all things somehow. They also mentioned that they expect the Schengen regime to be abolished somewhere in 2018, and this is also the year when this missing section is expected to be built. As was the case at the time, on 16 September, I have already said that I am endeavouring to build, in view of what purpose this missing section is, in fact, essentially, to want and expect the share of the funds to be greater for this section. That is why, immediately after the Ministry's appearance, I took the Ministry to increase this share of the funds. Unfortunately, I will say what a huge increase is not possible because this section is toll-free, this is no longer to be changed and therefore the desired volume, let's say up to 85% of European funds cannot be achieved because most of this investment can be covered by toll. So everything we have managed to verify and ensure at this time will be increased to 63, i.e. by €6 million, or 10%, and unfortunately it will not be possible. In such a way that all the missing part of the investment, i.e. totalling EUR 247 million, will have to be provided by the DARS, partly by debt and partly by own resources. A guarantee law has also been passed for this responsibility, since the construction of previous highway sections, so that there will be no problem with this assignment. We are counting on the investment to take place immediately next year, as was actually envisaged in the original plan. We now have to correct the investment plan because of this increase of €6 million. We just received it from the DARS on Friday, so that this investment plan will be reviewed by the Commission for our investment documentation at the Ministry this week and, following confirmation, the DARS will be able to start the tender and the matter will then be in the following year, as I said, provided that there are no major complications in the broadcast of works that will occur in the spring months. However, the completion of the construction is expected somewhere just before the start of the 2018 summer season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u207	Thank you. A request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u208	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. If I understand you correctly, today you support the construction of this section and you will also do everything you can to make it within an already agreed deadline, that is, by the summer of 2011, this section is complete. Now I am interested, but there is a basis for a decision to confirm the investment also by your Minister: Have you already signed this decision and how far is it with the call for an operator? What, though, are these 70 million that the DARS must provide, already in the 2015 budget itself, or are you likely to advocate that this will also be available in the 2015 budget, or the share that will be urgently needed for the start-up of construction?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u209	Thank you. Minister, will you complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u210	Yes, thank you very much. From the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, nothing will be financed, here all the missing funds are provided by the DARS, which will rent the loan, and its own funds are provided. As I said, in this week's review, we have an investment programme that is corrected in accordance with these 6 million additional European funds, after confirmation by the Commission, then by the Minister, i.e. I, I will also sign this investment programme, then the DARS has the basis to start with an invitation to choose an operator. As I assure you, this call is actually ready so that the call will be published immediately after the signing of the investment programme. And we're all counting on the performer to be chosen in the spring months if there's no major complications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u211	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of the Interior of Ms Vesni Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, the state of the Slovenian police is alarming. The government is deaf to all the arguments and all the figures presented that should concern us, as it is finally also about the security of citizens and citizens. What's more, your client, the Mira Cerar Party, violently interrupted the mother body's meeting with a strong argument. This manoeuvre prevented any debate on the state of the Slovenian police. The debate should continue today, but you also cancelled. When you presented yourself for the position of Minister of the Interior, you highlighted your ability to manage the crisis management and negotiating capabilities, and the truth is that you did not show up to the Slovenian police meeting at all. Perhaps you even knew that this one would be uncompromisingly interrupted. I hope that this message of yours is not a new form of dialogue that you spoke about when you presented yourself for this important position. Calling a police officer belongs to the category of specific professions. We should all be aware of that. Right now, it's mostly government. Today, the police are also facing a drastic reduction in the number of employees. The Deputy Director-General of the Police warned that the police will no longer regenerate. Finally, all of this will affect the response time of the tasks, which can be fatal. Police are warning that this time it's not just about wages, it's about the government's relationship with the police. Let me also remind you of your words that people must be returned to the effective, legal and professional police. You must have missed something crucial about that. You will return the police under your command to the people hungry and barefoot. The representative of the police union was clear when he canceled the quiet and social dialogue, it is time to come to the streets. Therefore, as the most responsible police officer in the country, I ask you: What will you do to ensure that the necessary resources are provided for the operational work of the police, especially the police? And in the fact that the police don't even have the basic conditions for work, it goes also to your personal opinion for minimum resources, and I ask you: How will you act if you are unable to provide these funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u213	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u214	Members Bah Žibert, I thank you for the very thoughtful current issue. Indeed, the problem of the lack of resources for the functioning of the Ministry of the Interior with the two bodies in its composition was the problem I was faced with as soon as I took up the office of Minister. That's a problem that's been going on for years. As far as the police are concerned – I find that the police as a budgetary user are constantly operating in extremely austerity situations and that all the funds allocated are being spent very rationally, despite the constant allocation of new and new tasks. I also found that, as a result of the downsizing of funds in the past, it has not been possible to invest in the Police, which is why we are now solving the increased costs of regular maintenance of basic funds, which also has some impact on the ability of the police to function. The question of the Member alone points to the existence of one major problem, which in reality is reflected mainly in the lack of funds for operational operations, the depreciation and depletion of rolling stock and other equipment, such as the information system, the depreciation and non-graduation of telecommunications equipment, the difficulties in the field of investment maintenance of buildings and, lastly, the provision of funds for personal and protective equipment for police officers, in accordance with the rules adopted. The government has already properly identified the difficult situation in the Police when preparing the 2014 budget rebalancing and has also allocated additional funds to the Police by means of a 2014 rebalancing, providing additional resources for crime, for material costs for police administrations and for smaller investments that will bring down costs in the future, as well as for EU funding to a greater extent. The fact is, despite the fact that the situation is as it is, all the tasks so far have been performed so that the citizens of savings have not felt, but we must be aware that saving their borders and that it may also have an impact on the performance of operational tasks, as you have already identified in your question, Member. As far as 2015 is concerned – because I know that you are most interested in this in your question – from the point of view of equipment and the conditions for effective police work, it will be necessary to provide the means to stop the police’s decline, because I find that the police are no longer able to follow developments, in fact the police are on the verge of their capabilities, as you have already found out, this is essential if we want to deal successfully with economic and organised crime and other forms of crime and also to contribute to improving traffic security, as well as to improving or ensuring the overall security of our citizens in the future. In particular, from the point of view of measures or decisions in the future, we have already identified the urgent needs and the level of resources that we will then use in the 2015 budgeting process in a reasoned manner. In fact, these are still basic calculations at this stage, definitive calculations have not yet been made, even given that negotiations on labour costs are ongoing. The lack of funding for 2015 or their reduction in 2015 could result in a reduction in the effectiveness of the police, a longer response period, a reduction in the investigation, which could then compromise the high level of security that we currently enjoy in our country, resulting from the very successful work of police and police officers. Finally, let me add that we will continue to take care of the rational and effective functioning of the police through appropriate guidance, management and organisation. We are confident that we will be successful in this too. In doing so, I also believe in strong support, because ensuring the safety of all peoples in the Republic of Slovenia is one of the key priorities both of the Republic of Slovenia and of the Government and, last but not least, of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u215	Thank you. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u216	Your Honor, thank you for your report, but I can't say that was the answer, because you've summarized my words more. So with your answer, as such, I can't be satisfied. It is certainly not a satisfactory police force, but even less citizens and citizens, because, as you have summed up for me, it is the security of all citizens and citizens. The fact is, because of the unsustainable situation, the police are already leaving the police and the rebalance is further critical to this area, and I fear that this story will not end as well as you may have optimistically stated. It is also a fact that I cannot accept the argument that there was something inherited absolutely I can agree with, but today you are the Minister and your task is to change the situation. [[…]] Before your appointment to the post of Minister, you stated that you would be as zealous as you have been in favor of the Maribor Uprisings, which, by the way, led to the blood of the police, by the way, you would also do for the police. But I don't hear your voice or hear it, so do the Slovenian police. That's why I'm asking you: Does your concept of ministry even guarantee a secure country? Because I'm also personally afraid, based on your answers, that that's not the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u217	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u218	Here I would like to add first of all that the police, as a budgetary user with a budget rebalancing according to the 2014 budget adopted, have additional spending rights of 11.8m euros, of which EUR 8 million is in integral items, EUR million and EUR 5.2 million, and EUR 1.7 per investment. So with the 2014 rebalancing, we have actually set the conditions for the operational functioning of the police to be uninterrupted by the end of this year. That's in that context. Given the time constraints, some structural measures could not be proposed at this time, nor could they be taken. As far as 2015 is concerned, the baselines for the rebalancing have not yet been defined for 2015. However, the Ministry's assessment is that the funds in the 2015 budget adopted will not be sufficient for the operational work of the police and will need to be provided additionally in the course of the 2015 budget negotiations. If I repeat, the basic starting point is, in the first phase, to stop the police from going back. The police department's in charge. As it is said, the social economic situation of police officers, who also fall within this context, is very poor. I'm very aware of that. And that's one of my key priorities. It is imperative not to interfere with the operational work of the police. If the situation in 2015 develops as I think it is right and for which we are working very hard within the ministry, otherwise the negotiations are still open, this part would not go down because I think this is already prejudicing in a given segment, but if things go in the right direction, we will also be able to talk in 2016 and 2017 about the fact that progress will actually take place in the police field and the situation of police will also improve and the conditions for police work will be easier. These are not last but shifts that need a certain amount of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u219	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u220	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that in some way you agree with me that the issue is really pressing, I ask the President, because we are talking about such an extremely important area that we should also raise this issue in the form of a debate in the National Assembly. Even more so because the meeting of the parent committee or the debate on the matter was uncompromisingly suspended, the convened meeting was again cancelled. Finally, this also raises the question of the purpose of meetings of the parent bodies if the coalition with an argument of power does not allow debates to be held by Members and, in particular, those covered by the topic. So I'm asking this request of mine to be asked as a question, I think it's Wednesday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u221	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 November in the framework of the votes. Mrs Margareta Guček Zakošek will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers and ministers! Madam Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, we have touched the flood, the general threat of Slovenia, many times today. In the wake of these recent floods, however, I am pleased that you have taken the view that you will draw up an action plan to allocate additional resources also to the rehabilitation of watercourses, which have in fact been damaged precisely because, in the past, the conclusions of this National Assembly have also been reversed, which is a major problem. Here I appeal to the Ministry to resolve this matter as soon as possible. I would also like to touch on my own what the Court of Auditors has found regarding the preparation of the OP ROPI. In short, there were no professional grounds for these things and from here probably also the basis for my question, this is a concrete project to ensure flood safety on the Savinja river. This project was not implemented under the financial perspective until 2012. Now the project is in great weather. As far as I am aware, only EUR 12 million of 45 has been absorbed, although work has already been done at a level of EUR 35 million or even more. Even more serious is the fact that the two dry restraints, which are ultimately crucial, have not yet purchased land or confirmed situations. And if this project doesn't go through with it, then in short, we haven't done anything about it, because these people are going to be threatened. That's why I want to know: How do you monitor the delays or advances in this project? What's the problem? What solutions do you know at this time or when these solutions will be known? How will the Ministry take action to complete the project by July 2015? By the way, this is already an extended deadline for the implementation of the project and that we will, of course, be able to absorb all 85% of all 45 million funds. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u223	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u224	Thank you. Respectable magus. Margareta Guček Zakošek, a flood safety project in Savinja, local measures, has a contract with the construction contractor with the deadline of completion of the works, as you yourself said, at the end of August 2015. They monitor the physical progress of works at all facilities on a weekly basis, as well as progress in land acquisition, design and approval of administrative permits and alert operators in writing to the acceleration of activities. Monitoring of the project shall be carried out at operational meetings in construction sites as well as at coordination meetings of project stakeholders. The problems encountered are solved by the written guidance of the engineer and the contracting authority to the contractor for further work. The solutions allowing completion of the project were defined at the time of conclusion of the contract in April 2012. The interests of the operators and the interest of the local communities are often not the same as that of the contracting authority and the definition of the project, so there is always and will be proposals for changes to the solution, which causes delays and irritations. The contracting authority does not wish to withdraw from the contract or allows only the necessary derogations in order to reduce delays and inducements to a minimum. The contracting authority actively controls the changes and has secured a good and timely execution of works with funding of 3.5 million and a bank guarantee of 4 million EUR 300. On your specific questions, however, it answers that it is actively involved in ensuring a more appropriate positioning of the smooth implementation of the project in the financial sense and also in the part where land is to be acquired for the construction of the restraints. The key deadlines for the implementation of the project are linked to these two contents. In the Court of Auditors' opinion, we will certainly have to write down a solution in the response report, but it is true that we have a strong connection and we are going to cooperate. But I think when the secretary is here, it might be easier. [[Incomprehensible]] So, the ILO is working with the Ministry of Finance and with the Regional Development Authority or to draw on cohesion funds, because, as you have concluded, I agree with you, this investment needs to be completed, and if I say so in my own way, in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister of Finance as Minister for Economic Development and Technology Dr Dušan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The economic situation in Slovenia is very poor, unemployment is high, there are no identifiable measures that could improve the situation in this area, but there are additional burdens that the economists believe will further exacerbate. More than clearly, client interests and not the interests of the whole country are at stake. This is reflected in all economic and economic indicators. Just for example, Slovenia on the World Bank's business conditions scale only went back five places this year; we are backward in the resolution of insolvency, in the payment of taxes, in the acquisition of loans, and far from the worst in the effectiveness of the judiciary in resolving disputes. In a common sense, our country belongs directly to Romania, Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Thus, on the one hand, we have very poor conditions for economic development and, on the other hand, the Government of Mir Cerar is putting an additional burden on the economy according to the measures it intends to take, including the tax on financial and insurance services. It is therefore normal and justified that the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia also opposes the additional burdens of the economy provided for in the Government's proposal for austerity measures, as it is aware that such measures will further exacerbate the situation of the Slovenian economy, which is less competitive each year due to high burdens and poor business environment. Most in this country know, except of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which obviously continues with reckless measures and thus further burdens the economy that the exit from the current bad economic situation is based solely on economic growth and the creation of new jobs with high added value. Also, most citizens and citizens and, of course, a large majority of economists are aware of and aware of the need for measures to improve the conditions of operation of the economy in our country and that this is the only way to improve the economy, as well as the basis for increasing the competitiveness of the economy, foreign investment in the Slovenian economy and, of course, the most important condition for the well-being of everyone and everyone in our country. Here, of course, I would particularly highlight the extremely problematic situation in Styria. All those who come from Styria know the situation in Maribor and the environment. I think that if the government does not take some positive measures for the development of the economy at some point in time, the question is what are the Stajers going to do at some point in time. That's why I'm asking: Which of the measures will have a positive impact on the business conditions of the Slovenian economy? And the second question: What will the Ministry do to improve the situation in this area? When can we expect appropriate measures? This seems extremely important to me – when can we finally expect appropriate measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u227	Thank you. Dr. Franc Trček will also ask the Minister of Finance in his capacity as Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Dr Dušan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In September and October, this National Assembly dealt primarily with itself and with the resolution of the fate of the currently absent gentleman. It was not until early November that we started dealing with things that we should be dealing with in the middle of August. We have two budgets ahead of us. If we look at this year's budget, which I call "the next year's budget exercise", which will cut more radically. What do we see where it's cut? If I say it at home, I'll just read it off the list to be shorter, I could go in detail. It is cut down on regional development, on tourism development, on enterprise development, on rural development, on agricultural promotion, on infrastructure development, on job creation, on education, on financial compensation for the unemployed, on family benefits and on parental benefits, it even states in the written explanation of the document "because the situation is better and there are fewer beneficiaries" – colleague Pojbič said how to do this in Styria – on family benefits, on parental benefits, on health care, on research activities, on the nutrition of schoolchildren. Anja Bah Žibert's colleague said very well about the situation in the police field, perhaps someone thinks it's a rhetorical dramatization, which of course is not true, as we discussed at the meeting. At the time of his term of office, the Prime Minister of the Government said he was aware of how the government would have to implement some fire-fighting measures, but how some "developmental reflection" was needed. I'd like to add a "new development model" myself. I apologize, although I have been working professionally for 20 years, I do not see him in this balance sheet and even in the next year's rebalancing approach. I don't see any development, no reflection. I therefore ask the absent Minister: Where is the developmental reflection in this year's rebalancing? Where is the development reflection and the new development model for the next year? I will, of course, insist on the oral answer given in Article 247 not only to me but also to the people at the next meeting. As far as I know, the Minister is in Austria today, I am going alone tomorrow with a small delegation of the National Assembly on a Central European initiative, two days where I will be asked. I can say some of my opinions, but apparently the government doesn't have that opinion yet, but it would be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u229	Thank you. Your question will be included in the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Primož Hainz will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor and the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u230	Dear Vice-President, Dear colleagues, Minister and Minister, Dear Mr Koprivnikar, as Secretary of State! Of course, I am sure that the long-term sale of domestic silver in the package is something that is not a wise act, if I may say with a mild expression. This, of course, also applies to the sale of Telekom, d. o. o. But since I'm not an economist and I don't want to sell out at this point, I have another problem. The data network of state authorities, which allows data to be transmitted between public authorities, administrative units and public authorities, which also provides e-mail, internet, access to registers, is HKOM. Currently, most of the infrastructure on which the HKOM network operates is owned and operated by Telekom, as the state has gradually phased out the upgrading of its own network due to rationalisation and has agreed to lease the infrastructure provided by Telekom professionally. It has such a highly developed infrastructure that it enables, in the case of possible problems, one of the platoons to establish connections through other lines. The private transfer of infrastructure would mean the transfer of the basic backbone of the State, the state administration and thus an unacceptable security risk, both in terms of ensuring the operation of the whole system and also in terms of data content management. This is particularly important with the increasing emphasis on the need to support the functioning of public administration with information solutions that provide not only fast but also more and more the only provision of services. I want to know: How will the public administration work in the case of the sale of Telekom into private hands? Is there a possibility and what is it that such a sale means that the Republic of Slovenia cancels its communication independence? Does this include security components in terms of foreign control over our country's communication? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u232	Thank you, Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you, Member of Parliament, for the question. Just a few introductory details. According to data from the end of 2013, the HKOM network is in the management of thousands of 580 connections, of which a thousand 270 are leased, remained owned by the Republic of Slovenia, of which about 90% are leased with Telekom, and the rest are with other bidders selected on the market for the purposes of HKOM. Data security is ensured depending on the security classification of the data and, in principle, the authorities of the State Administration are connected in HKOM through dedicated links used only by those as State authorities at a designated location with protective technologies. In addition, traffic on each link is encrypted with a special encoder system, with a VPN protocol and we are currently using a 256-bit encryption algorithm and the encryption keys are periodically changed, meaning that they change several times a day on each link based on a digital certificate. This is said to be the very purpose of the link, which is for a precise purpose and with additional encryption, we are ensuring the security of the data that we are also obliged to provide. However, additional mechanisms have been introduced for data classified by public authorities with a higher level of secrecy and additional encodings, which are under the responsibility of the Office for the Protection of Secret Data. In order to save, municipalities and other public authorities operating outside the State administration also use internet access to HKOM, which they provide themselves, but also in this case use encryption and encryption systems to ensure the confidentiality of their data. We therefore note that, from the point of view of the functioning of the national communications network, HKOM itself will not have any impact on telecom's potential sales. The Ministry of Public Administration shall, in accordance with the Law on State Administration, be responsible for ensuring the functioning of the Central Information and Communication System and shall use the lines chosen on public tenders from different providers. It is true that most of the lines are currently in use from Telekom, but also in recent calls we find that we do not have better price conditions or better technical standards, so other providers of these dedicated lines are increasingly taking over. The ownership of the country in relation to Telekom and the services we use in Telekom has in fact had no impact at present. Perhaps it is also important in this case to stress that we have already launched a project of the so-called state computer cloud that will provide central information infrastructure and, of course, one of the most important parts of this infrastructure is the provision of secure lines. With this new project, we are introducing an additional level of security, which means that there will be an additional cryptographic system on both sides of the line in addition to the routers on both sides of the line, and this will increase security. It would be difficult to say, however, that with the possible sale of Telekom we are losing communication independence, as this depends mainly on infrastructure development, that is to say, we want the most developed infrastructure available. The safety components we use on the lines, regardless of who owns this line, are the key components that enable our communication and data security. So we build data security on cryptic systems, on protections, on the use of dedicated lines, and it's not part of some general contract with Telekom, but it's part of the requirements that we set out every time we tender for the rental of lines that we need for HKOM's purposes. I hope that I have answered your question clearly enough: the essence of data security is in cryptic systems, with which we have absolutely alone, and we determine what cryptographic systems we will use for our data, and there is no access to these cryptographic systems of the controller or the owner of the lines.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u233	Thanks for the answer. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Mr Dejan Židan and the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. On 10 November, a working meeting was held in Velenj on the third development axis, the northern part. This meeting was attended by all the mayors from our region, the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the President of the Chamber of Commerce for Policy and Law, the representative of the initiative for the third development axis, as well as all three representatives or members of the National Assembly. I must point out that the Minister for Infrastructure and the Minister for the Environment and Space, who unfortunately did not attend this meeting, were also invited in the first place, but representatives from these ministries were present. At this meeting, a discussion took place on the issue of putting the route into a space that has been dragging for 12 years. Here it is about placing in the space of one of the three possible variants for which professional bases have already been made, namely the road section of Šentrupert, the road section of the floor in Šempeter and the road section of Arja vas. This part of the route would now link the weak link between the north-eastern part of Koroška, Upper Savinja Valley and the Shale Valley with the rest of Slovenia, and most importantly this route would be of great importance to the economy in this valley. Well, this meeting also presented all the advantages and disadvantages of placing possible three variants in space, with a focus on difficulties in obtaining appropriate consensus and cooperation with the Ministry. However, there was also quite a discrepancy at this meeting between the representatives of the ministries that were present at this meeting. Since the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment and Space are mainly involved in the placement of this route, I ask both ministers: When and what route of the third development axis, the northern part, will be placed in space? Here I would like to draw attention to the words made by Mr former Minister Omerzel on his visit to Velenj that the profession considers that the only most efficient route is the road section of Šentrupert. If possible, I would also ask for the dynamics of the implementation of these routes into the space itself. And if you could just tell me: With which competent persons at the Ministry could representatives of the local community cooperate [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u235	Thank you. The question will be answered by the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u236	Thank you. Madam Member, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, I would like to start by saying that this meeting was attended by State Secretary Lidija Stebernak, who covers this part of the ministry, which is also involved in the preparation of State spatial plans – that is, space. We are aware of the responsibilities of the Ministry in the implementation and preparation of the State Spatial Plans, so ensuring its participation was a priority. For the third development axis, state spatial plans are divided into four sections. I would like to talk about the third development axis, many of which are also interested; this is a section from the highway to Velenje where the preparation of the State Spatial Plan is taking place. Then there is the section from Velenje to Slovenj Gradec, where a regulation on the preparation of the State Spatial Plan was adopted in 2013. Then we have a section from Slovenj Gradc to Dravograd and a section from Otiški Vrh to Holmac, and the preparation of the State Spatial Plan is based on a government decision of October 2012. Taking into account the coherent regional development and the polycentric urban system, which has 15 cities and someties of national importance, in accordance with the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, the northern part of the third development axis connects 2 centres of national importance, namely Velenje and some of Slovenia Gradec-Dravograd-Ravne in Koroške. The latter is only of 15 centres of national importance, which is more than half an hour's drive from the nearest motorway connection. As a result, the entire area of Koroška is so remote from the nearest highway connection. So, the Ministry of Environment and Space is just running state spatial planning procedures. I'd say it's relatively limited in its work. It is true that, at the conclusion of the adoption, one of the routes will then be decided, but the comments made during the course of the procedure during the adoption of the State Spatial Plan cannot be changed in our ministry. In fact, we have to consider them. Of course, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure to implement the state transport infrastructure, so I cannot talk about the possible realization as Minister of Environment and Space. I would also like to say that it is the responsibility of our ministry to report every six months to the Government on these procedures and the next report will be prepared in December 2014. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u237	Thank you. Minister of the Jews, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u238	Thank you, Madam President, honourable Members and Members, Madam Members. Although the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is not the one carrying the procedure, but we are one of the co-legislators, I must also say in person that I myself know that it needs not only Velenje but also Koroška's better road connection and that this is a developing bar. Now, as far as our ministry is concerned, we've given the last opinion, as far as I can see, 8. 6. 2012. You are aware that the Government has changed its position several times: in March 2011 it adopted the view that it is only going to reconstruct the existing road, then in May 2013 to go in spite of everything in the placement, then they set a variant of F3B, which was then upgraded and optimized. I must say that our ministry has participated here, so from the point of view of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I must say that we have been actively present here all the time and that I believe that things are moving forward, as agreed by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u239	Thank you. Do you require a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u240	Thank you. Thank you for both your answers. But we have also been acquainted with the problem ourselves, and unfortunately I have not received an answer when; whether it is in three months, 6 months, or when this route will be placed in space. I did not get any answers about my cooperation with the Ministry's officials and some dynamics. I expected more precise answers — if you can supplement them with anything else, please. Here, however, I would like to point out that this third development axis needs to be approached as soon as possible. As I said earlier in the introduction, our economy in the Savinij-Shale valley is very much dependent on this transport link. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u241	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u242	Otherwise, I don't know if this was all addressed to the Ministry of Environment and Space. I said before, with us, there is a secretary of state in our ministry, and the mayors should also address her, Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u243	Thank you. Minister of the Jews.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u244	Thank you. The Ministry of Agriculture participates through the Directorate for Agriculture, these are, of course, less important institutions, the Directorate for Agriculture is the one who decides on actions or gives opinions in the field of agricultural land protection in accordance with its powers. This department is also doing this, and as far as I know, we monitor weekly what this department is doing, sometimes the backlogs have been very long, now the backlogs may be 30, 40 days; so, all of these things, sometimes they've been waiting for months, even years, now we're working almost in real time, and reporting is weekly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u245	Thank you. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Finance in his capacity as Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. My question concerns the implementation of the operational programme IPA Slovenia-Croatia 2007-2013. This is a pre-accession instrument, the IPA shortcut, and this is a financial instrument aimed at pre-accession assistance to candidate countries or potential candidates, so that this cross-border project or call for tender is used mainly in an area bordering Croatia, Austria and Italy. So far, three calls under this operational programme Slovenia-Croatia have been published, two more under the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional development and the latter under the Ministry of Economy and Technology Development. My question concerns the second public call for an operational programme. This second public tender was launched in 2010, which was in April 2010, started in 2011, and the last projects were completed in April 2013. During the implementation of the projects, this is a two-year implementation from 2011 to 2013, the Ministry of Economic and Technological Development has been constantly delaying the controls of the interim reports. Thus, for example, the first claim of all beneficiaries was paid or reviewed only after one year. Well, today, until today, this is 31 months after the completion of the project and 9 months after the last joint report by the leading partners, the operators have not received a notification to date whether their final report has been approved and whether additions are required. Thus the contractors have been waiting for payments for 31 months after the completion of the project, these payments are for certain projects of between 50 and 100 000, with a total value of less than 10 million. Such a way of working of the Ministry of Economy and Technology Development sheds a poor light on the exchange, i.e. on the work of the Slovenian-Croatian projects, has already been pointed out by Croatian partners for some time and also threatens with some sort of lawsuits to our ministry, then it also means a poor flow of European funds, taking into account that operators and project partners, in particular Croatian, have also taken short-term loans for the implementation of projects and this also means liquid difficulties for operators. I therefore ask the Ministry of Economics and Technological Development: When will the last joint interim reports of the second public tender Slovenia-Croatia 2007-2013 be reviewed? When will IPA funds, i.e. European funds, be paid on this programme? What will the Ministry do only to ensure that such backlogs do no more? But I'm asking for a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u247	Thank you. Dr Dragan Matic will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! On 22 October 2014 floods occurred in Ljubljana in the area of Viča, Vrhovtsev and Pink Valley. About 2,000 300 buildings were flooded. This morning, the RS Environment Agency issued a hydrological warning that there is only a slight spill in the Ljubljana area, as shown in the map where this area is painted with yellow. By this time, however, the area of the Pink Valley and the Vrhovts had already been heavily flooded. The houses were flooded with water, the cars on the streets were flooded, and there was massive material damage. It was only at 6.55 that the Protection and Rescue Board issued a warning that the watercourses in the area were flooding. It's unclear why there was no red alarm that day at 6:30. Since there was no timely alarm, there was no communication with sound signals when sirens honked, and that would be very good, since all of this happened when most people were still asleep or unprepared for such an event. Civil protection also did not respond, and the information of the population through the service of firefighters and police did not go away. Many assets could be saved by the people themselves if they knew about the danger. From basement and ground floor areas, we would take valuable items to higher floors and move cars to higher areas. And that didn't happen, there was a lot of damage, and luckily there wasn't any human casualties. Many of this would probably be saved if data were available from these stations. Subsequently, it was published that the flow was 22. At 10 a.m. on the morning of 2 p.m., almost 58 cubic metres per second, but no one moved, and on the 5th of November at 2 p.m., a red alarm was sounded as soon as Gradašice flow was 1.5 cubic metres per second. I want to know: Will you determine who is responsible for the failure of the competent public services 22. Ten. 2014, in particular with regard to information and alarms,? In particular, why wasn't there a red alarm? I'm still wondering: Will the government provide compensation to all affected people, given that their assets have been destroyed by the failure of public services paid through taxes? I want to know: When will you update the old and apparently defective water metering system? Last: When will the government revive the State Spatial Plan Regulation to ensure flood safety of Southwest work and Ljubljana and settlements in Dobrova-Polhov Gradec? Will the projects provided for in this Regulation be included in the list of priority projects to be sent to the Court of Auditors in order to improve the absorption of European funds? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u249	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u250	Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you to the Member of Parliament, Dr. Dragan Matić. If I start with the first question, I can say that the observation, information and alarm system lays down, inter alia, the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters and the Regulation on the Organisation and Functioning of the Monitoring, Notification and Alarm System. Within the framework of the system of observation, information and alarm, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for environmental surveillance and information. This means that this agency does not declare, trigger or issue alarms, but merely informs and alerts to any potential threat to natural events. The tasks of the public alarm system shall be the responsibility of the State, regional and regional information and alarm centres, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Resolution. The Agency’s national meteorological and hydrological services had previously operated, observed and informed during and after this event. The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia shall be in this flood situation of 22. Ten. 2014 acted as usual, in accordance with the internal guidance on emergency environmental management. The event was announced in time, the first warnings were issued more than one day before the event, and the highest level warning was issued 22. 10:30 p.m. According to the established protocol, the Agency has also informed the professional services and the public and has also communicated directly with certain actors in the field, for example with the Administration for Natural Accidents, with the Municipality of Ljubljana. That is why I am not going to find out who is responsible for the absence of public services, especially because I believe that the Agency has done its job. I can say or give a message that there is no basis for information through the media with a red or orange alarm; it is only an approximation of the information that would give people in the area where such an alarm has been declared to be more closely monitored in nature. Information centres or centres for the management of procedures are regional centres, 12 are, and the centres in individual municipalities have to operate in accordance with legislation. Water Agency systems - During this event, there were indeed problems with one of the water - measuring stations due to electricity shortages while increasing water flow. I can say that using this BOBER project, which has already been named in this Chamber today, it was named when it was said to be a construction of offices for Arsa, and in fact it is also a building of several offices, but the value of this project is in aggregating the network and improving this network, because, among other things, spatially, measuring stations will be concentrated and will report better hydrological and also meteorological data. As far as compensation is concerned — that is, if the affected inhabitants are compensated — I find that the country is not liable for compensation and is actually responsible for the consequences of the damage caused by the natural disaster. If we were to find out that in these proceedings or for the harm of someone, it would be necessary to say that the victims could be served on civil charges. [[…]] Indeed, the law itself on remedying the consequences speaks of other procedures that you probably all already know and would not repeat here. So... [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I've already told the system. This is part of the BOBER project and I can say for these investments, the public procurement project for production [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u251	Request to complete Dr. Dragan Matić's response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u252	Dear Madam Secretary. Unfortunately, what you have said will not be entirely true, because alarm centres along with Civil Protection, firefighters and police are taking action when they receive from the Environment and Space Agency of the Republic of Slovenia a warning that something is happening. Day 22. Ten. 2014 at 6.30 – this is from the print website, what a warning was given, and I can give it to you – the area of Ljubljana is painted with yellow: smaller spills. As such a miscalculation occurred, there were no alarms because there were no alarms, the water flowed silently, flooded the upper and basement areas, flooded the cars, and caused great material damage. The system did not work, and this system depends exactly on the timely notification of the service, which falls within the competence of your ministry. That means he won't hold that information. Please check again. In this regard, too, I think it is necessary to find out what is going on with water meters – whether they are working or not. It's also a mistake you admitted or said it didn't work. We have five degrees of intervention value of the water supply from H1 to H5. At the time of the incident intervention, H5 was achieved and no action was taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u253	Complementarity of reply, Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u254	Thank you. I admit that we are probably not going to conclude this debate today in this Chamber, and if I have to complete it. As I have already said, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia issued the first warning more than one day before the event and the highest level warning was issued 22. 10:30 a.m., 3:30 a.m. It's not 3:30. I agree that there was a power outage and that during the event itself there was a problem with one of the water-meter stations due to a power outage. On the other hand, I propose that, if it does not work out differently, we meet with representatives of the Agency and it may be easier to explain things orally first and then in writing. However, it can certainly be verified at the information centre whether this claim, if the highest rates were obtained at 3.30 p.m. on their number. I think that's a win-win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u255	The following questions are asked by Mr Bojan Podkoršek. The questions are raised by the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u256	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and colleagues! Today, I am not going to ask about floods associated with water, but about floods associated with problems related to municipal spatial plans. These problems have been faced by many municipalities in Slovenia for many years. If there has been developments in the past or in the present, it is certainly at local levels or in municipalities across Slovenia. For many years, however, these congregations have faced problems with regard to the UN. In this area, the constant change in legislation, regulations and regulations, the under-completeness of spatial legislation and, above all, the exceedance of opinions, the consensus of the reports. Our citizens, citizens, of course citizens and citizens of individual municipalities often do not understand when these UNs are adopted in the municipalities for so long. Many times even the law crosses each other, many times it happens that at ministries sometimes it does not know the left hand for the right hand, what it does. That is why, Madam Secretary, I am interested in this, and this is also the past, and it is not only your ministry that is involved in this area: What have you done so far in this area? What are the guidelines for the future in this area? Because this is an important segment for the development of local communities, and above all I have in mind the economy here. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u257	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u258	Thank you. Dear Bojan Podróšek! In response, I would like to start just with your question – long adoption of the UN. I would say that without the municipal detailed plans adopted, the congregations are building their development on the basis of spatial plans adopted in the 1980 ’ s. Since I also worked on the administrative unit myself, I hope to say so. In these spatial plans or plans, expression is also used, for which today's adoption of rapid development, economic development, and if we also go our separate ways after 1991, we often find no equality in the expression itself or we do not know the appropriate terms that are used today. Therefore, I am probably looking at the adoption of municipal spatial plans a little differently than those who are trying to say that these procedures need to be changed. In fact, more than 100, about 140 municipalities are such where the procedure is – that is, 104 municipalities have already adopted the spatial plan and are already in the stages of changing the OPN, 27 municipalities have not yet started the procedure. This means that in those 1980 plans they had a very rich construction potential, these plans included much more than can be built, and the fact that there was a total of 62 municipalities in Slovenia at the time of 1980 — about my number — is 213, and today, of course, this gap is even greater than that of my implementation. Well, the number of municipalities where this adoption of the OPN is in the draft phase is 68. It is true, as you stated, that the normative measure which covers the area of preparation of municipal spatial plans is relatively sustainable and stable. The Spatial Planning Act, which was then enacted by the UN, was adopted in 2007. Since then, the work governing the preparation of the UNSC has changed twice, with changes both going in the direction of procedural facilitation and the increase in the associated autonomy of the municipalities. In 2007 and 2008, all key, related sub-laws or plans, which have not changed since then, date back to the year 2008. It is true, however, that sectoral regulations were amended, the so-called flood regulation was adopted in 2008, an amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act was adopted in 2010, and an amendment to the Natura 2000 Additional Areas Regulation was adopted in 2013. Notwithstanding the fact that we have already joined the Ministry in a comprehensive revision of spatial legislation, the aim of which, inter alia, is to unify the normative framework in a way that the substantive and procedural requirements for the preparation of the UNSC will be regulated in one place and without unnecessary duplications and overlaps, our view is that the Slovenian municipalities must adopt the UN as soon as possible, as there are several reasons for this. I mentioned already, at the time 62 municipalities were, today there were 213, spatial plans adopted in the 1980s, old plans did not take due account of building restrictions due to various natural factors — floods, erosion — in some way a single database on the intended use of land for the whole of Slovenia could be established, thereby increasing the reliability of the data. There's more to the answer below.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u259	Request for complete response. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u260	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm aware that you've been in this place for two months, or maybe a day more, that it's been a long time. I understand you somehow, I understand your answer in part, but I am afraid that we are not all understood by those people, especially the economists, who would like to build us in these local communities. I know cases when the company is already in the local community, but I would like to upgrade one hall, increase employees, and this is not possible. It is even more sad when local communities are trying to attract new investors, I have in mind an economy, but of course these things, which are a problem, we have been explaining them for years. I know the case from the congregation I come from. When we pulled an American investor's nose for two years, he went to Hungary for the third year. I would like to sincerely like you, as Minister and all the ministers under which this department belongs, and above all the government, to make sure that this time-table is limited to at least one year for the benefit of the development of local communities and the economy, especially for the benefit of the development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u261	Complementary response from Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u262	Thank you. The adoption of municipal spatial plans will significantly reduce the need to carry out an integrated environmental impact assessment, in particular at the OPPN level. Thus we have in preparation a solution, and for this purpose and alongside the normative changes to the newly established Ministry of the Environment and Space, organisational adjustments to the work processes, both the environment and the spatial part of the Ministry, are already under way, relating to issues related to the preparation of state and municipal spatial acts. Similar efforts will also be made with other key agents of space regulation that are not otherwise part of the ILO. However, it is wrong to understand that delays in the adoption of the UNP are only due to a normative framework. Half of Slovenian municipalities have already adopted the UN, and I repeat this in particular because of this, it will not seem that everything that can be resolved is within the framework of the ILO. Many of them are at the stage of the UN proposal, and some have already made and implemented changes and additions to their UNO, so I call on all municipalities that have not yet adopted the UN to do so as soon as possible in agreement or for the implementation not only of the investment of the economy, not only for the implementation of the investments of their citizens, but also in the sense that, as since 1984, a basis has been given, so, of course, a single criterion for all municipalities must also be given for further procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u263	Procedurally, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u264	Since I think the area is extremely important, we listen to these problems too often, so I suggest that the Minister's reply be classified in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the next meeting. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u265	Is there a debate to be held after or not? Based on [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u266	Of course, in the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u267	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 November 2014 in the framework of the votes. Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanislavo Setnikar Cankar, is now asking questions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u268	Thank you, President. Dearly-respected Minister of Education, Science and Sport! Exactly two years ago, my client colleague, Sam Bevk, then Minister of Education, Dr Žigi Turku, asked about the issue of public funding for music education. The reason for the question was the error that was then compared to the preparation of the budget documents for the coming years. That's when the music education item went off by mistake. The aid was then a source of excitement for the general public and led to speculation about intentions after the privatisation of public music schools. The item was then included in the budget, but was pinched by around €5 million or by more than 12%. Music education is clearly a popular target of the Ministry of Finance in this government as well. It seems the old ideas of one-and-a-half-year peace came back on track. The Ministry has published on its website at the end of October a document of measures to meet the fiscal targets for 2015 and, as envisaged, to achieve among the fiscal objectives, inter alia, by overcoming the costs of the parents' music education programme. Social Democrats are advocates of public music education, which today, according to the latest data from the Statistical Office, includes over 24,000 children. Music education has a tradition in Slovenia and quality, uniquely on a global scale. The State's investment in public music education, despite budgetary constraints, should therefore not be subject to purchase with the Ministry of Finance. We must be aware that the investments are an indispensable investment in the future of children, and consequently in the cultural and economic future of our country. And what is particularly important to the Social Democrats is that compulsory parental funding would be an additional segregation of children according to their social situation, as the Academy of Music has also pointed out, as you know. The Academy of Music also pointed out that the indisputable fact that any measure that would exceed austerity measures in the light of the equivalent situation of music education in the national education system would constitute a unilateral collapse of a professionally sound and well-functioning educational system that has universally positive effects. That's why, Madam Secretary, I ask you: How will the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport provide future conditions for quality and accessible public education in the field of music?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u269	The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanislava Setnikar Cankar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u270	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Andreja Katič! The question is really important, I know that there is a lot of excitement in Slovenia, I know this is due to the published document – you have the right data. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance has simply proposed that the full burden of this music education would relieve the state budget and burden other stakeholders, in the first place the parents. Well, because we are aware of the importance of music education, namely in this school year 2014-2015 54 public music schools – with 16 branches, 99 distributed units – and 13 private schools, involving 16% of primary school children in the past school year, we have in fact faced arguments with the Ministry of Finance, first of all that the importance of this education is extremely important as a complement to compulsory education, and we have not accepted the justification to go from budget spending to all those activities that are not compulsory. This, however, has somehow highlighted the dimension of this funding, spending around 44 million annually on this music education. Let me add that this proposal was in a context that would reduce the entire vertical from kindergarten to science and sport by 100 million euros. This seemed to us to be the price that education in Slovenia cannot pay, which is an unacceptable reduction in education resources, which was based primarily on a comparison of the resources allocated to the OECD countries and the EU monetary state on average for education in the public budget. We have found that Slovenia, with 5.9% of GDP, is actually comparable to the average of these countries that have consumed around 5.8 according to the latest available data. With this and other arguments, believe me, we have been very involved, we have succeeded in reducing this expected 100 million reduction to a tenth of the amount in the current phase of the 2015 negotiations, that is 10 million. Due to the commitments made by Slovenia, we have made a commitment to try, in particular, to reorganise and reduce those costs that we believe are not vital to the functioning of the system, from kindergartens to higher education and science. In this context, the requirement or proposal for the complete elimination of funding for music education has been removed or amended into a proposal that, in particular, a 20% contribution may be made to the financing of music education by the local community. I do not know what the division between parents and local communities will be, because there is also a very different distribution of these obligations, but I hope that we will also find in dialogue with representatives of music schools those opportunities that will not interfere with accessibility, not to the extent and not in the quality of the implementation of this education.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u271	Request to complete the response? Mrs. Andreja Katich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u272	Thank you very much. This passing of burden on the congregations is likely to be very difficult for the congregations to carry out because austerity measures also seek to rob the congregations of funds. I want to know: Is this measure equivalent to other educational austerity measures? In fact, these interventions in music education will also have an impact on tourism in some way. Developed music education, high professional or amateur, has brought a visit to tourists, says some economic development, including the development of young people, as well as some savings that would otherwise have to be made if young people were not included in the music education system, are earmarked for some other programmes, because this also has a preventive impact. Finally, even if the number of employees falls in the field of music education, this also has an impact on other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u273	Completing the answer? Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanislava Setnikar Cankar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u274	We are aware of these aspects that you have highlighted, so we have established a dialogue with the representatives of the music school managers community, and with their help we are now looking for forms that would not constitute interventions that would reduce the scope of activity and accessibility. I would not go into detail now because we are still in the negotiating phase, but believe me, we will do everything we can to ensure that this education, which we are aware of, remains accessible so that it does not depend on the financial possibilities of parents and that we do not significantly interfere with this area. However, I must be aware that that promise or the fact that we still have to save a tenth of the projected amount in 2015 does not, unfortunately, allow all consumption in this area to be left entirely unchanged.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u275	Mr Daniel Krivec will raise the question to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the ministers and to the minister. Nice greetings to my colleagues and colleagues. I will ask the distinguished Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question regarding the implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park with some emphasis, particularly on the implementation of Article 56. It should be borne in mind that this law was adopted in 2010 with the practical unanimous support of the National Assembly, and also with the great efforts of all parliamentary groups, that this material has been definitively confirmed. There have been quite a number of commitments in this law that have not been fulfilled in the last period and that is why there is also a lot of dissatisfaction on the ground with regard to the implementation of the law itself. The law has already highlighted in the preamble and in its initial articles the coordinated sustainable development of the National Park area and has also incorporated development incentives into its materiel and has established that the use of state budget funds is to be equally divided between development and nature conservation activities. The problem arises because the Ministry and the contractor of the Triglav National Park have completely neglected the implementation of the development component, which also shows that, for the first time, a management plan has not yet been adopted which should have been practically two years under the roof and it is not clear when this part of the law will be implemented, meaning that the law in this part is in breach. The State budget appropriations shall also be allocated for the implementation of the development tasks during this period. In view of the fact that the law has been in force since 2010, nothing has been implemented in this respect. However, there were 54 people in the public office in 2010, at which point there were 65 people. It is said that some articles of the law can be implemented, but some of the articles of the law that touch the population in the area do not get a green light. The development incentives provided for by the law in force, which provides that incentives to local park communities as additional funds are not implemented. That is why I ask the Minister, I know that it is somehow new in this area, but I believe that they have inherited most of the personnel and officials who work there, so I believe that they have an answer. I want to know: What will illegality in this country do about this non-execution of the law? Will it go in the direction of consistently implementing the law, as we demand from all citizens and it is right to implement it ourselves, or will it propose any amendment to this law? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u277	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u278	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, Mr. Daniel Krivec! Currently, the main activity of the Ministry of Environment and Space in connection with the Law on Triglav National Park is the completion of a proposal for a regulation on planning the management of the Triglav National Park. Certainly, however, many are aware that a call for the appointment of the director of the Triglav National Park, which is slowly approaching its conclusion, is under way. I mention this mainly because it is still necessary to say that the management plan of the Triglav National Park is largely dependent on the people who are preparing it and, as has already been said, should be adopted in 2012. In June 2014, a project group was appointed to speed up this proposal, the work on the preparation of the regulation is in the final stage, but I still think that much depends on how the Director approaches the preparation. I hope that at least one of those who have applied for this job has included some of the things that are important for the preparation of such a draft proposal for a regulation in its work programme, but perhaps not. Therefore, the draft proposal for a regulation goes to the Council of the Public Institute and then to public hearing and after public consideration only for admission to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These procedures have not yet been carried out. Article 56 of the Law on the Triglav National Park states that, in addition to public service funds, professional assistance tasks, advice, the exercise of public powers and other tasks under the law under the State budget resources under the public service work programme and the management plan, resources are also provided to carry out the nature and development tasks in the same proportion for each task. The implementation of this Article, as has already been said in previous years, has been difficult, although various projects have been carried out in the park area since 2010 when this law was applied. If we look at only those projects carried out by the Public Institute of Triglav National Park, four million euros have been generated since 2010 by different ministries and about 970,000 euros have been allocated to Slovenia. These projects also supported the content referred to in Article 56. The project funds were intended to preserve biodiversity, increase environmentally friendly tourism in the region, increase the use of renewable energy in the local environment, improve sports and recreational infrastructure, create a new tourism offer in the Italian-Slovenian region, improve rural supply, increase the visibility of the area, support for the marketing of local typical products, promote tourism economy, heal on grassland, regulate the way to design. A significant share of the funds was also intended to build or improve information centres for the needs of the local population and tourism; both in Trenta, Bohinj, Kobarid, in the administrative building of the Bled Public Institute. Information points in rural areas have also been arranged. The above content can undoubtedly be considered as part of the content of Article 56, and the fact is that special additional funds have been expressly allocated to the public institution under Article 56 of the Law on the Triglav National Park only once. The Ministry, in cooperation with the preparation of the various operational programmes for funds from the EU Funds, has ensured that the content adequately represented in these programmes, which will support the implementation of Articles 10 and 11 of the Law on the Triglav National Park; and two articles discuss development initiatives for activities that promote sustainable development, adapted to the objectives of the National Park. More in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u279	Request for complete reply, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u280	Thank you, Your Honor, for the first answers you've been given at the Ministry. As I said, I believe you do not yet have a full view of consciousness, but I fear that the matter will continue as it did under the previous minister, even though he was the minister of that government who helped us to adopt this law. See, in 2014, €680 000 was allocated for endangered forest birds: wild roosts, forest cranes, three-fingered and white-chested clover and so on. I support all of this, but the law clearly states that half of the funds are earmarked for development. You mentioned the projects that Triglav National Park carried out on its own, I would say, infrastructure; at its buildings, in its centres, they were not directed directly to the population, but, as you mentioned, to some additional inflow of both tourists and some other services that the park can manage. To some extent, I can agree that the party has not been thrown away, but the implementation of the law is not being implemented as it is written in the text itself. I am afraid that these lobbying interests, which have a clear impact in addition to the financial crisis, are quite shaping the way in which the law is implemented. In particular, the implementation of the management plan to oblige individuals within the park is certainly a problem, since most of these people who have been operating within the Triglav National Park are now bound or employed by the Ministry. However, I am interested in the fact that the public administration must spend budgetary resources in accordance with Article 52 of the Law, and otherwise must, as the law states, allow the will of people to express it at the referendum and also require the removal from the park. In view of all the letters I receive, I fear that the matter will go this way, so I expect more concrete answers: How you will ensure the implementation of this [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u281	The reply is complemented by Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u282	Thank you. In my first implementation, I said that the programme, the management plan, was to be publicised. Of course, there will certainly be a lot of evidence from the public hearing, including how the locals are satisfied with the functioning of the Triglav National Park. However, I said very early that we are looking for a director and that in such a work the director – or the current or future, what the decision will be – is very well known because communication with citizens is still important. I would also like to say that the rural development programme envisages that local action groups operating and implementing projects in the Triglav National Park area will benefit from a 15% increase in funding under the LEADER programme. In the development of regional development programmes for the mountain and mountain region, inter-regional projects with the content of the proposal for a governance plan for the Triglav National Park have also been developed and, in relation to these contents, the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy has developed sub-items which allow for the development of an integrated approach in the planning and implementation of projects in territorially final units such as the Triglav National Park area. This can provide coordinated projects that will complement and adequately support each other, even better development of this area. The UN also envisages investments under a specific objective, improving the situation of European important species and habitat types, with the advantage of those with a poor conservation status and endemic species, where, in addition to defined horizontal principles in the selection of projects, projects carried out in protected areas protected by the State, taking particular account of Article 10 of the Triglav National Park Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u283	Procedurally, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u284	Thank you, Madam President. In accordance with Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the reply of the Minister of Environment and Space be discussed. I believe that the answers to my question were not sufficiently exhausted and, in view of the fact that I initially pointed out that this law was practically unanimously adopted in the National Assembly at that time in 2010; whereas many Members who are still sitting have been very involved in the fact that the local population has become convinced of the purpose and adoption of this law, which, as I said, has also incorporated certain development components, I believe that it is right to have a concrete debate, because the answers given by the Minister – I once again warn that the new is in this area – but I have expected from the new ministers, who have been announced as some new future, some new approach within this government, to have at least one of their own vision on individual segments, how to resolve the illegality that has been going on for a long time. I find it difficult to meet the answers prepared by officials who have been vegetating on individual districts for 10, 15 years, which I will literally be very cruel, deceiving us, too, Members with their answers. And if someone follows a problem and realizes that nothing is going on, and someone announces that some fresh wind is going to wind up on a particular district, I, as an MP, whether I'm in opposition or in a coalition, expect some action, not answers that I've listened to in the last two years, practically in the same way. That is why I propose, as well as to the other Members, that on this subject, which I think is likely to be given some further dimension, because dissatisfaction is great and not to imagine that this is just a question of a delegation that goes by like this. Letters that you too may receive from the field clearly indicate that in this case some things need to be put in place. We are warned of violations that the law is not being implemented, and if we as Members and you as the government and the ministries do not respond, I do not think that this is a good thing. I therefore propose that you support the debate on the implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u285	Mr Daniel Krivec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 November 2014 in the framework of the votes. The following question has a mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u286	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members and Members, Honourable Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities! For many years, we have been working in the Coast to have an adequate institution for persons with mental disabilities or persons with special needs whose parents cannot provide for themselves because of the need for special and permanent care. The efforts to build it on the Fat Rtice have been under way for 13 years, and the ministry has also been working alone. Following long-term procedures, a building permit was issued this year, as it appears that the project is likely to lack financial support. For all these parents who visit their children or relatives only once a week for ten, twenty or more years because of the distance of the institutions, please answer: What is the current status of this investment? When will construction begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u287	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u288	Honourable President of the National Assembly, dear Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. This is a story similar to that of the Minister of Education, Education and Sport, once there is no funding, it is difficult to ensure. This story has a long beard. As you mentioned, 13 years went by, in fact, these service consent projects were carried out both by the Municipality of Koper and also by the Red Cross and by natural persons, so long that everything was actually delayed since the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities planned to carry out only construction as an investor in 2013. In fact, all these necessary building permits, including the permit, the decision on the issue of the project consent, were delayed until 2014. We had planned funding on the items in 2014 and 2015, totalling 3 million 400 earmarked for this, last year, given the tight financial situation in the country, the Ministry's priority was to maintain the level of social rights. I know and I realize that driving children is so far away, waiting for this project, very difficult for everyone involved, and, on the other hand, the rights these children have are also important, so you're sadly putting on a scale. At that time, the priority was also in agreement with the then government to ensure that all social rights were paid in particular. That is how we did not actually intervene in any social right, but at the same time, in these investments in the whole area, we had about 11 million investments for the whole area, now we have, we have had, this year, less than 4 million, and in fact only those investments continued, where the damage would have been reduced if we did not continue the investment. This was followed by the intervention provision of funds for the pensioner's home in Kočev. Why — because it was a wooden structure and would not survive the winter. In short, we solve situations based on individual problems. I have this as a key objective to provide funding in 2015, the building permit issued in January of this year has been valid for 3 years and during this period this investment has to start and end. I believe that together we will be able to provide these necessary resources so that we can start investing in the next year. Even this year we are in July, when we see these reallocations, which you will also see on the 2014 balance sheet items, which you will consider, that we have redistributed €398,000, that we have provided the most urgent things with the acquisition of land. And next year, I hope, but I will need help, especially the willingness of the government as a whole. In this area, however, the problem of integration into the work centres is also the fact that these austerity measures, which have been taking place since 2009, with this non-employment, by holding, are essentially the highest price paid by institutions that provide for children and adults with special needs. We have also written in the coalition contract that one of the government's priorities is also the expansion of the network in the field of protection and work centres, where we have about a waiting line – for 550. In fact, there are broader problems here, not only the issue of construction, which is specific here in Primorsk, because it is actually 100 kilometers away from the nearest center. But we also have a problem in Slovenia with the lack of opportunities to integrate new ones into the network. We also have a problem with the work centres, because it is an ever-older population, so we are also preparing plans to modernise the network itself, because a different approach and work will be needed. In the field of protection of work centres and care for persons with mental disabilities in development or with persons with special needs, a new development moment is also needed, which is included in the national social protection programme adopted by this National Assembly in 2013, and also within the last week, the government's adopted operational programme shows that investments will mainly be in the direction of deinstitutionalisation and programmes as aid for community treatment. This group has special attention within this group, and there will also be a specific group at the Ministry that will deal with it. I hope the situation will be different next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u289	The question of dispatch is Dr. Vinko Gorenak. It shall be appointed by Mrs Vesni Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! The media report extensively on how director Veniger received 70,000 euros, which was part of the government's response, is of course a gross amount that could have been avoided by the minister and is not. But that's not the subject of a question. The question I have raised concerns the situation between the Ministry and the police. I must say, I am pleased to see you. For the most basic reason that I have seen you for the first time since you were Minister, despite the fact that the National Assembly already had quite a few agenda items on which you should be present, you were not present. They were secretary of state. As far as the relationship between the ministry and the police is concerned, we must say the following. We did not introduce this chapter into the previous law for a fundamental reason in 1998 because we were convinced that the general legislation governing the relationship between ministries and bodies in the composition provided for this relationship sufficiently and we did not foresee any complications. As you probably know - and I believe that you have also reviewed the documentation on this subject, particularly after the question of the Member State - even the Constitutional Court, which said that the legislator should define these relations between the minister and the police, had to react in 2003. Because then something happened that should never have happened. In fact, the director of police simply resisted the minister. And only then did the intervention of the Constitutional Court, so we also corrected the law and completed it. However, in Articles 3 to 13 of the Law, which currently defines this area, it is relatively detailed in the terms of the Minister's relations with the police and what the Minister may or may not do; in short, what the police are obliged to do in relation to the Director. My question was therefore on this subject. I ask you in this context: How are these provisions of this Law implemented — that is, in Articles 3 to 13? Or even more specifically: How do you guide the functioning of the police and how do you control the functioning of the police? These are two basic principles of this law, or two basic things, that the law defines. I'd like to ask if you could tell me a little more about this subject: So how is police supervision going, and how do you guide the work of the police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u291	Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister for the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr Gorenak, for the questions raised. Given that the question is two-partial, my answer will also be based on two parts: first, I will talk to you about the direction of the police and then on the control of the police. Since taking over the post of Minister of the Interior in September 2014, which is a relatively short time, I have issued 29 in the field of police guidance in accordance with Article 4 of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. 9. 2014 only Guidelines and mandatory guidelines for the preparation of the police work plan in 2015. This provision was also implemented in accordance with Article 4 of the Police Guidance and Control Regulation, i.e. within the time limit set by this Regulation, until the end of September. That's how I expect it to be now until 30. 11. that the police will send me an annual plan to confirm. As regards the substantive implementation of the provisions in relation to the guidelines that have been issued, I should point out that these guidelines focus on the implementation of the strategic objectives in the area of crime and the preparations for extending the Schengen area to the Croatian external border. As regards economic crime and organised forms of corruption and the continuation of a comprehensive system for early identification of emerging forms of violent radicalisation and recruitment for terrorism, these are strategic objectives in the area of crime. Important strategic objectives include maintaining the security of the national and external Schengen borders and preventing illegal migration – that is, as far as substantive guidance is concerned. In the field of police supervision, supervisory activities shall be carried out in accordance with the annual control plan and with an assessment of the legality and expertise of the performance of a specific task or the use of police powers through reporting requirements within the meaning of Article 141 of the Police Control Regulation. At present, regular supervision of police neutral security activities is being carried out in the Ministry's competent services, focusing on the detection of offences committed by suspected police officers, designated by my predecessor, Dr Virant, in accordance with the 2014 surveillance plan. During my ministry, I issued only a supplement to the order by which another member was added to the supervisory group for the purpose of facilitating the exercise of control. This monitoring is expected to be completed by the end of this month and the report will be produced in the first half of December. All other controls were carried out during Dr. Virant's ministry. Two of these, namely regular supervision of the provision of police assistance to the competent beneficiaries and the re-control over the performance of police duties in the identification of speed violations by means of technical means also directed by my predecessor, were completed at the time of the change of government, so that in October the findings on control were presented to me. No systemic deficiencies have been identified in these controls, and no guidance has been given to address any identified errors or shortcomings, or the police have taken immediate action to address the shortcomings. In individual appeals proceedings against the work of police officers, the Ministry shall carry out the tasks referred to in Article 141 of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police. There is also no specificity here and no proposal has been made for guidance at systemic level. In practice, the provisions of the law relating to the communication and reporting to the Minister shall also be implemented, to the extent and in the manner specified in the Police Guidance and Control Regulation. Therefore, information is limited only to the event and to the actual situation and I am not provided with operational data on police investigations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u293	Request for a response, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Well, I hope that this is not happening, as you said last time, to keep you informed about current operational matters, although if you look at the 2003 Constitutional Court decision, there is nothing to be ashamed of or to be excluded from these matters. The Minister owes him, or the Minister can know everything. Everything! That's what the law says, and that's what the constitutional decision says. So that interior ministers often – if I didn't, I don't know, I won't, it's a police matter No! [[…]] This is a clear matter by a decision of the Constitutional Court. What I wanted to ask you in the supplementary question is the following: I had very serious problems here before this national assembly when I defended section 12 of the law. In particular, this article, which I will remind you of, is that the Minister, the Director-General of the Police or the person in certain cases, informs the Minister immediately; and orally. Cases were listed, such as the loss of a larger group of people's lives, the assassination and the like. I'm asking you: What is your attitude toward this article? Is it good or not good for you? In fact, I had a problem in the National Assembly with acceptance. The second thing I'm asking you is an article before that, this is Article 11: How do you feel about that? In fact, you will order some control and in control, the Director-General of Police will say, "No, you will not monitor this because it is a covert investigation measure." What will you do next? In fact, you have the option to continue to say that the supervision will be carried out or that it will take into account the position of the Director. Just for the record, maybe that's all there is to it. You've gone across, Madam Secretary. Commanding the CVZ is not in your jurisdiction. That's what we need to know, and that's where it went across. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u295	Complementarity of the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u296	As far as Articles 11 and 12 of the Law on Organising and Working in Police are concerned, given that you have in fact raised one hypothetical question, there would not be any detailed interpretation here, given that if the situation under these Articles occurs, the articles will be consistently implemented in accordance with the legislator's purpose. As far as security is concerned. Now I understand why you asked me that question. I do not agree with you here because I do not believe that this issue belongs to the second chapter of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, i.e. the relationship between the Ministry and the police, or the third paragraph of the Ministry's relationship with the police. My desire to exchange security guards has been given solely in the capacity of a protected person, not as a minister, which is a legitimate interest, given that the exchange of security guards is neither a fundamental guide to the work of the police nor the management of the police's personnel resources, nor can we say that this is an individual professional task, nor is it the exercise of the duties and powers of the police, as you, as the former Minister of Internal Affairs, know that control is essentially comprehensive, systematic and planned to control the legality and respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the performance of police duties. Nor is it the international cooperation of the police in this case. Last but not least, it is not a procedure for dealing with complaints from individuals about the work of police officers. All personnel exchanges in the Ministry and the police were made in accordance with the law. The exchange of security personnel cannot be considered as a human resources exchange. Exchanges have also taken place in the past, so this is not a new phenomenon. Also, not all security guards were replaced, which is not true. In this case, too, it is not a professional question, but it is actually a matter of a specific status of a protected person and actually an intrusion into its privacy. The exchange took place after a discussion with the Director of the Police Specialities Authority, which includes the CVZ. The then Director General of Police was also informed. The agreed exchange does not deviate from professional standards but is of a nature such as to allow for a truly balanced solution and at the same time professional protection. Perhaps I would only add here to the fact that in a given situation I see the potential for improvement in terms of greater completeness of procedures or possible change of approach in the allocation of security personnel, so that the future protected person is at least familiar with the team and that, in order to avoid wanting, at least at some point in the initial phase, it is possible to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u297	Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u298	Now I have to ask for a debate because I see you don't know the law. Excuse me! Look, you can't say you're a minister now, but then you go here and say you're not a minister. No, you're the minister anyway, and you're always the minister. Even if you're demanding a change of guards. You can't say you've been changing your guards as a person with a name and a secretary. You are the Minister and you must in any case respect legislation in this area. You can't say you did this this morning and something else this afternoon. You're secretary 24 hours a day until you're relieved. That's one. Second, why I want a debate. Look, they don't keep this information. If we go straight ahead – Home Affairs Ministers since 2004. No Minister of the Interior, including me, including Mr Virant, has demanded a change of guards. But you did it in some panic — I don't know what you're afraid of. These guys are professionals, as far as I know, I had no problem taking over Mr. Zalar's guards, so to speak, but he had no problem with my successor Virant taking over those same guards, and now you have a problem. It's paranoia. I mean, come on! Be serious about these matters. Especially because you say you did it and you demanded it not as direction. Yes, what the minister says, says! And even if the Minister speaks in his dreams, if you may speak in your dreams, you are the Minister. So I don't give up here. However, I did not ask this question of the mission because of the change of guards — neither by accident nor by accident! - but it's the desire to see how it goes. I know how much direction I gave in my time, how much control was done in that year – and I know that, I will say. I did not follow just what you have to give, but when I saw a phenomenon — I don't know, some heavy traffic accident — I gave direction in this area too, so I didn't just stick to what the annual plan and direction is about this. However, I repeat once again, the question of the delegation was not raised due to the exchange of security guards, but I am disturbed that you think you are from 7 to 15 p.m. Minister and you are no longer in the afternoon. No, but you're a minister all the time, and that's a fact. Just accept this function. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u299	So you're asking the question under Article 2 246? Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 November 2014 in the framework of the votes. The following question is raised by Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u300	Dear Minister, distinguished minister, president, dear colleague! The European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, ECRI, at its visit a year and a half ago, found that Slovenia does not have systematic protection against discrimination. Similarly, in the area of gender equality, the European Commission, as well as the United Nations, found in other areas, when you, the distinguished minister, were a minister in one of the previous governments. A year and a half later, this year, we received an official letter of notice from the European Commission, the initiation of proceedings against the State due to an apparent violation of European Union law regarding an independent body for equality. In September, we received similar warnings from the European Commission to combat racism and intolerance, and we are likely to get something similar from the United Nations, like a month, two, three, similar to the CEDAW – the Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, not to mention. In short, international disgrace over this country, where the ruling policy has been reviving not only international demands and signed commitments for years, but mainly the needs of its own citizens in distress. What we commit to with international conventions is not taken seriously by this country. There is no strategy for the protection of human rights according to the United Nations Vienna Declaration, there is nothing about the fight against racism, the 2001 Durban Declaration, and we do not yet have sectoral ones. The European Court of Human Rights has not been sufficiently alerted by the NLB, the Constitutional Court on NLB and so on. Thousands of individual cases. These are not coincidences, these are the symptoms of the situation; conditions that indicate the grave indifference of this country to its citizens. In this house we hear that we have to sell government property because someone once promised someone something like this, even though we don't know who, when, or on any legal basis. However, when the country has been avoiding international commitments for decades to protect vulnerable groups, money is always a problem. We don't care about the weak and those without economic power. The same excuse is always the same — there is no money, but righteousness, humanity cannot wait for better times. That's not an accusation, that's a fact. That's why I'm asking the Minister: When will Slovenia get a special body dealing with the problems of discrimination according to international standards? When will an advocate of the principle of equality gain the status of an independent body? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u301	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs has equal opportunities for Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Matjaž Hanžek! Perhaps I would just add that not only since 2013, when I have taken over the resort, but this story has been happening more or less officially or informally since 2004, which of course is not an excuse, we need to act. I must say that we are also through 2013 – I must say that I have personally been at around six meetings with the Ombudsman, and there have been several discussions with the Ombudsman's Office about how a solution could be found so that we could have one point in a country where citizens and citizens could turn there on the issue of discrimination. We know, however, that the Ombudsman's position is determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that it covers only the public sector, while the advocate or advocate also covers the non-governmental or private sector, and therefore we have not come in here, and we have sought in particular the possibility that the Ombudsman's Office would provide certain administrative tasks for the advocate, so that in some way it would be a single entry point, while the powers and the divorce itself would be. This is an official reminder that we were expecting, and last week the Government formally accepted a response to Brussels on this note, because it is an official reminder from the European Commission on the irregularity of transposing three Council and European Parliament directives on gender equality and non-discrimination into national law. Because I took over this area in March or March 2013, I was aware of the necessity of regulation in this area, and this is also clearly enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, so that this government will regulate the position of advocate. In this reply to the European Commission, we also propose the creation of a single body to promote equal treatment, i.e. a advocate/procurer of the principle of equality, which will be given adequate independence in accordance with the requirements of the European Union and international standards. It will be competent to promote equal treatment and protection of the principle of equality and to offer assistance to individuals/individuals who are victims of discrimination. The establishment of a new body of advocate/procurer of the principle of equality requires, of course, the provision of human resources and financial resources for the performance of tasks, the estimated financial resources for 2015, the establishment of a circus of 100,000 euros in the second half of the year, we will try to provide them within the Ministry, because we are aware that we cannot make an account of the Ministry of Finance in the light of the situation in which we are. The new body would start acting after the end of its mandate to the current advocate of the principle of equality, that is, with 1. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So many things are happening in this regard, I hope that we will ensure this, because it is indeed a necessity, and we also need to discuss in the country how to link more effectively the sectorally separate view of the treatment of non-discrimination in our country, because we do not have a uniform approach, even competences are separate. Our ministry mainly covers the issue of gender equality, while other forms of discrimination do not cover our ministry. Of course, this does not mean much to citizens and citizens, it is probably a matter of debate at government and coalition level, how we can make this better in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u303	Request for a reply from Mr Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u304	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You know this year and a half talking to a government that's been unnecessary since the beginning. By the time I was a guardian, we had only temporarily set up a discrimination department that was supposed to bring itself to its own, elsewhere. He was then suspended there, he wasn't set up a new one, and now to start what was ten years ago just as a backup, it was wrong. Otherwise, I agree that since 2004, the Ombudsman and I, with the assistance of the Commissioner for Human Rights at the Council of Europe and experts from all over Europe, have made one concept of how we can solve this. The then government rejected this, including Parliament, nothing was resolved, maybe you can find a good concept there or you can go from there. I believe it's been dragging for ten or more years, but still, you've had a year and a half, you haven't even touched that area. At the hearing for the Minister, you answered the question why you did not speak, you discussed the 2011 report of the complainant, you replied, if you had sent it to you, you would have talked about it. If you don't know, I'll tell you that the counsel's report is on your ministry's website and the counsel is your employee. And if he doesn't send you, we should call him ourselves. I'm not so sure, although what you've told me earlier excites me very much, but I can't be sure of what you've promised from the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u305	Completion of the response, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u306	Thank you for your opinion. I certainly agree that when we look at any problem or open matter, the expectation is that ministers or ministers are solving all problems, more than justifiable – both by citizens and citizens. I have to say, I've worked hard in this area. Clearly, once the result is visible, sooner this is my talk and the matter of trust to you or not – it doesn't count, I'm aware of it. At this point, we are working on this and we will also try to provide financial resources, which is not easy, but this advocate will be placed as it must be independent. As for his report, however, 2011 because you mentioned the year 2011 I have nothing with this report; I only know as Secretary of State that there were problems at that time. [[…]] Since it wasn't in my jurisdiction, I didn't deal with them. He was under the auspices of the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to my information, the Minister, who was my predecessor, did not wish to include this report at the government meeting, and I did not receive this report. It probably seems right that if he was invited to make this report yes, I would not discuss it, but the fact is that I didn't get the report and that's why I didn't forward it. The fact is that one person currently working within the Ministry of Labour is concerned about how he can effectively carry out the tasks he has under law. Thus, it would not now be about this report, who is it, who is not the thing is that as a country we have a problem, that we do not have a suitable institution in accordance with European legislation, which would provide an independent, professional and autonomous way of protecting people from discrimination and being their voice. [[…]] So this is our joint task, I believe that even when the bill is before you, that you will accept it and that we will ensure this office next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u307	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u308	Well, of course, I have to treat the Minister a little better, because if the ministers were here before her, my statements would be even worse. At least that's how we're close here. However, you did not propose last year to the Government to appoint new members of the Council to implement the principle of equal treatment. So this – but I won't anymore because I still have a pretty long list. On this point, I agree with the Minister that this is a major problem, that it is a systemic problem of politics in Slovenia, carelessness towards minorities, whatever the years and years show – I know that for 6 years I have fought with the mills on the wind. This is so important that I am sure that the National Assembly should discuss it at its next meeting. Not just because the Minister is now on the cross, we have now concluded this, but to call on everyone else to let the Government do what the Minister has promised to do, to support and otherwise react to the problem of discrimination. Thank you very much. Therefore, I propose that at the next meeting, after which I do not know which article already [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u309	246.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u310	Article 246 shall take place at the meeting of the National Assembly. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u311	Mr Matjaž Hanžek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 November 2014 in the framework of the votes. The following raises the question of Mrs Marinka Levičar, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u312	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr President, Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is as follows. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has drawn up a proposal for an amendment to the Mother Records Act, whereby pensioners who have an additional pension benefit through their espionage may have such earnings by the end of 2015 without thereby losing their right to pay their pension. The Ministry has drawn up such a proposal for an amendment or extension and a deadline for the application of the status or for the definition of the status in accordance with Article 106 of the ZPIZ-2, in my opinion, only after the violent reactions of the affected pensioners in the media. The pensioners who work and earn something through their espionage are, in my opinion, in an unequal situation with those pensioners who have the opportunity to work through an author's contract or a contract of work with different employers. These last two categories of pensioners do not lose the right to benefit from these benefits. People or pensioners working through espies lose that right because espé is considered a working relationship. As has already been said, the amendment of the Home Records Act will allow pensioners to work through espionage until the end of 2015, and in the meantime the Ministry will prepare systemic changes. Madam Secretary, I'm interested in: Which way will these systemic changes go? Will they ensure the equal position of pensioners who do something else — all pensioners? In this regard, I am also interested in: In what way will all affected pensioners who have already been suspended be informed, and when will they be returned? And I have another question that doesn't apply directly to this, but I've noticed one nonsense in this pension law. Pensioners who work at least 4 hours and are employed or have a pension may benefit from a proportional part of the pension and have a proportional part of the pension. Those who employ only two hours or three hours, or less than four hours, lose the right to a pension. I want to know: Are you going to fix this, or do you think it's the same as it is now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u313	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u314	Thank you for asking. Yes, this is indeed one of the pressing problems of this summer or this year. But let me try to explain a little bit more where the problem is, or why it all came to this. You must know that throughout the whole period of our pension and disability legislation we have had more or less specified that it is not possible to combine different statuses. So, do you have employee status, or do you have unemployment status, or do you have pension status? According to PPIZ-1, certain especies could be established – for example, the law provided for precisely where, six months before the start of the espa pension, they had the possibility of retaining these espas further. This was in fact possible until the amendment of the ZPIZ-2 which entered into force with 1. 1. 2013 ZPIZ-2, which was accepted by my predecessor and also coordinated with the social partners, said that this is no longer possible: whether you have employment status or have pension status. You can't go through or you can't go through both at the same time. He did, however, have to be honest, so-called partial retirement. So, before that espa, you couldn't have had just four hours before, so four hours was active to have espa open, and then be a pensioner at the same time. That's a P.I.Z. permit. Of course, in 2013 they came to me mainly in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, desiring that this possibility of harmonisation of the status for these espies should be extended for another year. The proposal was then in the National Assembly for two years, but then the National Assembly accepted this extension for one year and this year, or now with December. We then, in line with the social partners, have also discussed and the proposal to extend this status, this possibility of maintaining both statuses, for one year, to a solution of a systemic nature. The second thing you mention, however, is that it actually looked at who had it in the system at the same time, i.e. he was a pensioner, had a decision of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and was espa. So he broke the law in the past. Well, it wasn't the exception I was just talking about that PIZ-1 allowed. And since there was essentially a verification of the IAPES electronic records, that is, where you are, who you are, and ZPIZ, that is, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, this year it was found that there were 658. PPIZ issued a decision in accordance with the law, and then we looked for options, because my assessment was, when it happened, that the measure itself was a drawback measure, that is, an equation to look at if you were espa five years ago, since then you had no right to be a pensioner because you were actually against the law. Of course, it is a pension refund and also a refund payment because it is a proportionate measure. That is why we have decided, and in the proposal, as you say, that is to say, the new ZMEPIS, which will be ahead of you shortly after the emergency procedure, we anticipate that these legislative decisions, which have been issued, will be withdrawn. Of course, this story is what I want, what we want, what we want is one side, and of course the other is that it legally endures. At the moment, we are aligning the articles of this law with the legislative and legal service of the government. He'll probably be in the National Assembly. In short, it is not that simple a legal decision by law is cut down in them, so we are looking for solutions. It is, however, necessary to say that this is actually 30 pensioners, because we have already looked at the possibility that those who did not have higher income than the minimum wage were not regarded as non-conformities because we acknowledged that they did not actually have Espeia status, but were still pensioners. This is how we have resolved most of the photovoltaics from this title; in fact, after all this review, 13 decisions that are problematic remain. And then we can figure out how we're going to keep doing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u315	Thank you. Request for complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u316	Maybe that's another question: How's that job for two hours or three hours and the loss of a pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u317	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u318	Thank you for that question. In fact, you can work four hours, so half-and-a-half, so this option of partial retirement. Both employees and those with espas have the opportunity to decide to work half-time and be half-retired. Here we have given 4 hours as options because the rest is more difficult to implement, but this part of the answer refers to the future arrangement. In the Economic and Social Council, we talked to the social partners about the need for changes in this area – also other European countries allow for more flexibility, a greater possibility of moving between different statuses – so that they can be retired and also employed or retired and have espa, but the review shows that this activity or dual status is, above all, limited to full retirement age. Most systems. And 65 or 67 years when you're that old, you can work in here. Then it is also a matter of systemic payment of contributions, because, for example, now that we have extended these esperies, they do not pay contributions and, of course, the problem with the other side of the economy is that these esperies, which are at the same time retired, are unfair competition with other esperies. Thus these things are not so simple that we reach into one article, in fact they are a broader social change, which will also have consequences in the labour market. Because then, if everyone can work, this also means retired employees, because it is not easy to say between the statuses, now if you are retired, you can have espé, but you cannot work in a working relationship, there is a completely different question of how these different groups will function in the labour market. That is why these issues are not so uniform and, of course, a broader social agreement and, above all, coordination with the social partners must be required. However, we have committed that this will be one of the parts of the opening of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and in the next year we will also be in the context of the White Paper – which is the second year’s objective for the professional debate on changing our pension and disability system – we will also open this debate. However, there is no absolute agreement on the part of the social partners. You need to know that on this point, the question is why we insist that we cannot work until the age of 67, but if anyone who retires can work. In short, they are not so simple questions, depending on which perspective we look at them, but we certainly understand that people need to be allowed a legal way of working, which we already have pensioners, that they will not look like they do, the copyright and business contracts and also the occasional and temporary work of pensioners, which must be made financially more favourable, so that this is also the subject of the coalition contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u319	The question will be raised by Ivan Škodnik to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u320	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! I come from Koroška, where we have a problem recently with great unemployment, and among them the biggest problem is that it is the most young. I see a solution in the field of tourism and wood industry. The problem is first of all in infrastructure, here I think about roads, today there has been quite a bit of talk about the third development axis, a colleague pointed out this. Of course, the third development axis will be discussed at the round table in Dravograd on Friday, where you, Mr Minister, are also invited – I hope you will be present. Now, I would like to ask you a question, namely, the roads from Slovenj Gradc to Kope, which also concerns tourism, especially in Kopa, has been developing a lot lately and investing in tourism, but I will try to justify what the problems are. In 2008, a partnership of the western Pohorje was established, signed by five municipalities – Municipality of Slovenj Gradec, Municipality of Thinkinja, Municipality of Vuzenica, Municipality of Radlje ob Drava, Municipality of Ribnica na Pohorje – with the aim of participating in the development of the Kope tourist centre. What was done here, with the targets set, we can find that there were quite a few of them, the construction of the Lukov home – 2008, the snowing of the entire Kopa ski resort, the construction of sewerage in the valley – 2008, the investment in the Kastivnik quadruple – 009, the investment in the Pungart – 2012. The state road Slovenj Gradec-Kopa, which is in critical condition, has been the biggest problem in achieving their objectives since 2007, with the Municipality of Slovenj Gradec and the Directorate for Roads. Up to now, 20 % of the entire route has been repaired, and on certain sections roads are virtually not transportable. As a member of the Thinkinjska and Drava Valley, I would like to see this road together, or at any other opportunity, to send a team to see what is the situation that we cannot continue with the expansion of tourism in Kopa. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u321	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u322	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Member, yes, this section is indeed about the restoration of the vehicle and the rehabilitation of the implants about 13 kilometres long road from Slovenj Gradc to Kope. The total investment is estimated at around EUR 11 million and by the end of 2013 around EUR 2 million has been spent on these measures. This was the case, for example, in 2012 overlays were carried out at work in the town of Slovenj Gradec. However, transport documentation for the rest of the route is being produced below, and unfortunately, at this point, I cannot predict when the construction will be completed, since there is no funding available in the budget. However, as Minister, I will certainly endeavour to provide higher funds for investment in road infrastructure, including in particular for its maintenance. For we all know that such sections, which are in poor, critical condition, in Slovenia, are much too much and in this area we will have to provide adequate resources in the coming years to provide such critical sections, which are, in fact, virtually only conditionally transportable or non-transportable, to be rehabilitated. Such sections are also on roads where traffic is inappropriately larger and more frequent than in this case it is on the Kope section. But I'll be happy to take a look at this section of the road, so I accept your invitation, maybe this Friday, when you mention that we'll be in a hurry in Slovenj Gradec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Still, I would. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u324	Wait, please. Do you have an extension?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u325	Complementary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u327	I am glad that you are working on this, but of course I would like something to happen in due course, because this road is really critical, it is also about investing in the development of the Diga. In some ways, foreign investors have also found themselves, but they have great comments on this road. That's how it's supposed to be done here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u328	Complementary response – Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič [[…]] Mr Srečko Blažič will raise the question of Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc's health to Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u329	Dear Presidents, distinguished Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! My question concerns the Minister of Health, with regard to the human resources problem in health. In the last twenty, thirty years, health standards have not changed. For example, my case: more than 30 years ago, I started a specialization, 8 places have been systematized for specialists, and this number is still valid today. For certain health profiles, such as nurses, the number in certain areas has even decreased. In addition, he has complicated the problem of ZUJF, which prevents additional employment, although we already have unemployed doctors in Slovenia, both graduates and middle sisters. The development of medicine introduces new diagnostic and therapeutic methods, as well as new methods in health care, which cannot be implemented due to overcrowding. This is not equivalent to professional development with comparable European countries. Without additional health personnel, waiting periods will not be reduced; the existing health personnel are already overloaded. Let me also stress that Slovenian doctors and other healthcare professionals, according to knowledge, are fully equal to staff in developed European countries and can also be employed in these countries. Question concerning the Minister: What can the Ministry of Health do to make human resources standards up to date and at least close to standards in developed countries so that our professional staff does not go abroad? Finally, the data are from 2013. About 50 family doctors come to Slovenia per 100,000 inhabitants, 87 in the European Union, 192 per 100,000 in Slovenia and 243 in the European Union. On behalf of operators and patients, I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u330	Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u331	Thank you for the question, Mr Blažić. Good evening, 'cause I think we've already gone too far in the evening. Mr. President! I am grateful for this question because it is an opportunity to say in numbers how many doctors we have at the level of primary and secondary health care compared to other countries. According to our data, we have a 0.51 primary-level specialist doctor, including family general medicine and pediatricians per thousand population. The supply situation varies between regions and municipalities. To achieve the current goal, this is a thousand 800 patients per doctor, with the unity of supply in Slovenia we need a thousand 136 doctors or performers. This means that we currently lack about 90 doctors of family medicine. In the medium term, this is in the next five years, which is also the goal of my ministry, and we want to establish the headship of a thousand 500 designated patients for a doctor. This is why we have also formed a special working group, which will continue with the so-called upgrade of primary health care and which will aim to achieve these goals in these five years, 500 patients per doctor and thus, above all, to relieve family doctors. Therefore, we will have to provide a thousand 364 doctors for the whole of Slovenia, which means the need for 318 specialists in family medicine in the next five years. This would relieve them, which would improve not only their burden but also their quality and safety to deal with patients. It would also reduce costs, since each doctor would then have the opportunity to devote more time to the individual patient, to listen to his or her problems, and therefore to continue to take appropriate action. The result of this will certainly be less travel to the secondary level of healthcare, where, of course, treatment of patients is more expensive than ever, as has been shown by data analysis. We are solving the shortage of specialist doctors and at the same time the employment of young doctors by increasing the number of places of specialisation, taking into account the needs and equal access to health care for all people in Slovenia. In 2013, the Ministry of Health gave its consent to the invitation to tender for the 330 seats awarded and in 2014 to 360 seats awarded, i.e. even a 9.1% increase. Since we are leading a public policy at the Ministry of Health to achieve the above objectives and with a view to increasing the interest in specialising in family medicine and working as a specialist in family medicine and a specialist in pediatrics at the primary level, while at the same time seeking to further restore the reputation, value and expertise of the doctor at the primary level, 66% of the seats awarded to family medicine were in the first tender in 2013. The Ministry also supported the dissemination of so-called reference clinics, which have proved to be excellent, helped relieve doctors from family medicine and, above all, the monitoring of chronic patients. Certain activities are also being carried out in order to further relieve these doctors, i.e. in Annex 1 to the 2014 General Agreement, additional funds have been provided for so-called strengthened outpatients to enable the employment of 70 doctors with a professional examination.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u332	The question of Mr Ivan Prelog will be raised by the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u333	Thank you. Honorable Assembly, Honourable Minister of Infrastructure! Also in the media, rumors or information have appeared that TES 6 is intended to use Indonesian coal as an additional fuel with a higher calorific value than Velenjska. I got information in TES that it was supposed to be an 8% supplement. I want to know: Who's supposed to be the supplier? If known: On what invitation to tender was this financial transaction likely to be extremely profitable? I also want to know: Has such a solution been established already in the basic implementation project TES 6? And another question. In view of the fact that Maribor, the city of once internationally recognized and successful industrial giants such as Tam, Metalna, Railway Vehicle Factory, Elektrokovina, MTT, Svila, Technology Constructor to not list further, lost all of this and, as a result, landed with far-reaching unemployment in Slovenia, Mr. Minister, ask you: Will you consider amending the relevant rules by decentralising HSE management and moving the HSE part seat back to Maribor, which is the centre of production of renewable HSE resources? Now the Drava Power Plants, although they generate far the most resources in the entire HSE, are developmentally crippled. On the one hand, however, we will have a stimulating impact on the decentralisation of HSE management, and back to Maribor we will carry some of the quality jobs that Maribor bloodyly needs and deserves, by the way. At the same time, we would maintain a minimal development potential, which is very important for the perspectives of the HSE social group, such as Drava Power Plants, Maribor. Otherwise, we will witness the destruction of HSE's subsidiary for TET, which is unfortunately too late. That's why I'm asking you: As the competent minister, will you propose to amend the Act establishing the HSE Government of the Republic of Slovenia and thus create the conditions for moving the company's seat back to Maribor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u334	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u335	Thank you, Mr. President. Member of the Commission, I can answer your first question in such a way that, with regard to the use of coal for the purposes of TEŠ 6, we were in a new way also made aware at the Ministry of Infrastructure, especially in the event of the fact that it is also in the investment programme so-called NIP 5, which was the basis for the preparation of the Guarantee Act in 2012, that it was explicitly recorded in point 6.8 – Technical and technological analysis to be used exclusively as fuel, i.e. exclusively domestic coal from Velenje Coal. This was further confirmed in point 7.1.1.1, where it is ensured that the stocks available in Velenje Coal are sufficient for the operation of block 6 during the life expectancy. In the event that TES orders foreign coal, the company will have to select suppliers in accordance with the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services, so that I cannot talk about who is chosen or who will supply this coal. In short, in so far as such an order is concerned, the supplier should be selected on a public invitation to tender. On the second question, however, I can say that the Ministry of Infrastructure does not have legal powers in relation to the management of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, since the Slovenian State Holding – SDH is in charge of the Slovenian State Holding – because, as Minister in the request of the Mariborians after the return of HSE or HSE to Maribor, I do not have jurisdiction, but I must mention that the HSE organisation is already designed so that the business functions necessary for the joint operation of the holding company are located where competitive advantages can best be used. This is done in four business units, namely Ljubljana and Maribor, where the production management centre and the functions related to investment and telecommunications are carried out, this is HSE Invest, which employs about 70 people, while additional units are still in Velenj and Nova Gorica. At the same time, I would mention that we have one part of the energy directorate, this is the Department of Analysis, also in Maribor, which employs 8 people and has an Energy Agency in Maribor, which employs about 50 people. That's it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u336	The question of sending will be posed by a mag. Mr Bojana Muršič, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšič and Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u337	Honourable President, Minister and Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The acute problems of housewives with the right to use a service apartment have been taking seven months to break for almost 24 years. In 1991, the Housing Law entered into force, allowing for a favourable purchase of housing for those then holders of housing rights, causing many injustices. This kind of guilt has happened to the housewives. For houseowners, the law did not provide for the possibility of buying an apartment, but treated the house as a service apartment, which relates only to the time of doing the household work, irrespective of the reasons why and on whose fault the household works ceased to be carried out. The New Testament of the Housing Law in 2003 only partially corrected the injustice. It summed up the formal distinction between the category of tenants in residential housing who were holders of housing rights and those who had the right to the provisional use of the apartment. Again with the new guilt. In order to make a difference only in terms and only in terms of understanding, he also found in a large study the Institute for Real Estate in Maribor. As the injustice has not yet been corrected, the Group of Social Democrats, particularly with the great effort of Mr Miran Potrce, tabled amendments to the Housing Law in 2007. The aim was to settle the precarious situation of some 250 to 300 tenants of these apartments and their families in residential homes. Our proposal for a law to regulate the situation was not adopted, but the government has promised to make changes to the law that will properly regulate the situation. She didn't keep her promises, I'm afraid. In 2011, the Group of Social Democrats, supported by four other groups after 20 years of injustice in relation to homeowners, finally succeeded. A new law was adopted with solutions for a more favourable purchase of housing within five years. Unfortunately, already seven months after its entry into force, an intervention law has been passed, namely, the ZUJF, from the second Yangtze government, which again denied the tenants the hard-earned housing rights. Therefore, all applications for more favourable housing purchases after 31 May 2012 were rejected. Dear Minister and Minister: Are you familiar with the problem of housing that has lasted almost 24 years? Or when will the Ministry of Environment and Space prepare an amendment to the legislation allowing housewives to purchase these dwellings, as defined by the 2011 amendment of the Housing Act within five years, which was amended by intervention legislation in 2012 and was valid for only seven months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u338	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič and Minister of Environment and Space Mrs. Irena Majcen have together five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u339	Thank you. Dear Member of the Magi. Bojana Muršič, when renting household apartments, was crucial, at least according to our conduct, to the fact that it was always official dwellings which were granted for use only during the course of the house works, as confirmed by the case law of the Administrative and Supreme Court. But it is true that housing is not only located in multi-housing buildings, but mostly in kindergartens, primary schools, higher schools, even in courts, other institutions. And the re-implementation of the article, as you quoted it yourself, could result in the same desire to exercise rights for users of other office apartments, customs officers, police officers, teachers, professors. It is precisely because of this that it is business and not classic non-profit social housing and that it is often housing that is part of non-residential buildings, both at the Ministry and I am not thinking about reviving such arrangements as was then in force half a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u340	The question will be raised by Vojka Shergan, Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u341	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister and Honourable Minister! On behalf of the Club of Flag Members, this is Matjaža Hana, Ivana Hrška, Marjana Dolinška, Irene Kosnik Grošelj, Janje Slug and I ask in the light of the events of last week at the Termoelectric Trbovlje, when the energy issue of this space was addressed and the meeting with the Committee on Energy Development in Zasavje with representatives of the Thermoelectric Union and the Zasava mayors: Are you sure there's still a suction energy location? What measures will you first take, given that by the Government you are the coordinator of the content of the actions of SDH and HSE responsible entities in solving the current problem of suction energy with a focus on the Thermoelectric Trbovlje and the construction of hydropower plants on the Central Sava? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u342	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u343	Mr. President! Dear Member! With regard to the issue of the energy suction energy location, I can answer that it remains there no matter what the fate of TET will be, because the location only provides existing infrastructure such as, say, a switch to the transmission network for electricity, there are oil tanks, gas blocks and so on. In short, it is the responsibility of interested companies to ensure the maintenance of this infrastructure. Please also allow me to explain that, while I am working very hard, in accordance with my competence to encourage all participating companies to act in a coordinated manner, I am not a content coordinator, and I do not have the necessary powers to do so. However, I can say that in line with the agreement at the meeting of the Committee on Energy Development in Zasav last week, HSE, SDH and TET should explore all possible options for maintaining TET and social security for employees. I say that we should, because you probably already know that today, unfortunately, those responsible in HSE, SDH and TET have interpreted these agreements in their own way and voted on the liquidation decision of TET. With regard to the hydroelectric power plant in Central Sava, I would like to stress that this should be in the interest of everyone, of course, because it is a positive impact both on the economy and the environment. Construction would start a new investment cycle that would open new jobs. More than 80% of the equipment of the works and services needed for the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the Central Sava can provide the domestic economy. In addition to the electricity produced, which reaches approximately four hundred gigawatt hours for three hydropower plants in the Sava region, this is the amount of energy per year, taking into account the other effects that go to Zasavja, namely concessions, new jobs, employment opportunities, infrastructure arrangements and so on. However, several more difficult procedures have to be carried out before the construction of the future hydroelectric power plant chain is started, in accordance with legal provisions. In particular, it is a matter of putting the chain into space, which means that State spatial plans must be drawn up and adopted, for which the Ministry of Environment and Space is responsible, a concession contract between the State and the investor must be concluded and signed, or in this context also transfer the concession with HSE to SRESSA. This task is also under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. It is then necessary to buy back the land needed for the construction, which is the responsibility of the investor, and to obtain a building permit for each hydropower plant separately, which is again the responsibility of the investor. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, however, we need to monitor the investment with accompanying projects on state road and rail infrastructure. This is especially the Hrastnik-Zidani bridge and the presentation of the railway line, which will be flooded by the accumulation lakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u344	The question will be raised by Dr Jasna Murgel, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u345	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister. My question will be brief: When will the Health Council be appointed? This is a very important body in the healthcare system. In accordance with the Health Act and the Health Council Regulation, it considers and endorses the recommendations, guidelines and mandatory guidelines of an extended professional college that affect the content and extent of healthcare and thus the health policy and financing of healthcare. The Health Council shall, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of the Regulation, be established at the Ministry of Health from representatives of the health profession, the health economy and the organisation of healthcare. The Presidents and members of the Health Council of these candidates shall be appointed by the Minister of Health. The previous Health Council, according to the information I have, has been granted a term of office for about a year and a half, and has not yet been appointed. It is a very important body, as its decisions affect the content of health insurance. The specific reason why I ask from the electoral base is that it is a question of the number of treatments given to a physiotherapist in the development clinics of health homes in the case of children with special needs. Whether these children should be entitled to a higher number of treatments, or whether the Health Insurance Office should therefore cover the costs of these therapies, shall be decided by the Health Council. We have recently had the opportunity to listen to Mr Fakin, Director of the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to ensure that the money for the increased number of physiotherapys is provided, but the Health Council must decide on this or make a decision based on professional grounds. It is therefore important that this body be set up to decide on this and on other issues which are important for the scope of basic health insurance rights. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u346	Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u347	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! In view of the brief question, my answer will also be brief: The Health Council will be appointed this month. So in November. Let me say that it is true that the Health Council has not been working for some time; not only that, but also the conclusions and professional opinions adopted by the previous Health Council have remained in the drawer somewhere, so that the first meeting of this Supervisory Council will be to review all of these conclusions, views and also an extensive number of applications, including the one mentioned by you. I would only add this by adding that, notwithstanding this, there is a special Interdepartmental Working Group, which is examining the proposal of this company, called the Happy Legs, so that these matters are also resolved. Mainly: The Health Council will be set up very quickly and will have a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u348	The question of sending will be posed by a mag. Tanja Zink, and this is the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u349	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague! We all remember in 2012 when the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds came into force, which brought a lot of problems and bad will to those working at social work centres as well as to citizens and to those who felt the most. All this time, i.e. since its entry into force, we have been following up on the problem of unreasonable and unacceptable delays in resolving complaints about decisions by social work centres. While we know that the competent ministry has taken the problem seriously and is also addressing it as a priority. However, I am concerned and believe that it is justified, since this is a matter for people who also live in difficult social conditions, and therefore the foundations of the social and legal state are at stake, and I am asking the ministers of the Ministry of Field Affairs the following question: What is the current situation in this regard? And above all: When can we expect the Ministry to finish the backlog? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u350	The question of the emissary will be raised by the Magi. Mr Branislav Rajić, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, who is excusedly absent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u351	Thank you for your word. A respected choir! For the past 15 years, the Republic of Slovenia has not declared the basic proposals of its foreign policy in the form of an appropriate declaration, and I therefore believe that it is of paramount importance that we have already begun, within the framework of our mandate, a discussion on the draft declaration on the external policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft declaration is a good basis, but I also know that this document will be further upgraded on the basis of good proposals from the Foreign Policy Committee debate. The draft foreign policy declaration also mentions the European Union and the role of the Republic of Slovenia in it. I want to know: In what way will the Republic of Slovenia strengthen its role in the European Union in the future and increase its activity in co-forming the external policy of the European Union? In particular, I would like to hear the Minister's comment on the possibility that our country would take advantage of decades of built primate among itself in the region of South-Eastern Europe and, on this basis, once again become primarily economic-politically identifiable and, of course, lead accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u352	The question will be raised by Mrs Anita Koles, Minister of Infrastructure Dr Petr Gasperšić and Minister of Environment and Space Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u353	Well welcomed all together, especially the presidents, ministers and ministers, and of course colleagues and colleagues who still insist! I am pleased to ask a question related to my municipality from where I come from, namely, the Municipality of Šentjur on 18 October 2011 adopted the Municipal Detailed Spatial Plan and placed the connecting road Dramalje–Sentjur in it, which is the road from the export of Dramalje on the Ljubljana–Maribor motorway to the R423 road near the village of Črnolica. It is therefore an object already placed in a space for which certain financial resources have already been committed and realised, both by local communities and by countries. The spatial linkage of the State, spatial arrangements with the local environment, was recognised by the State or the competent ministry as a legitimate investment due to extremely burdened transit through the city centre of Šentjur, in particular the transit of heavy goods vehicles for which the existing road connection lacks satisfactory technical conditions and, of course, due to the legitimate requirements of the local community for transport safety, so as not to mention other circumstances that put the road into space. The agreement, under which the municipality prepared the appropriate spatial document, was also joined by the Ministry of Agriculture, due to the project of the high-water retainer Črnolica, which is an integral part of the project of that connecting road. This retainer plays a very important role as a flood control measure for the Voglajna water area, which means for the city of Šentjur and for the places until the river spills into the Savinja river in Celje. For several years now, the Municipality of Šentjur has prepared a basic documentation of the installation of road links into the premises and has assured the competent ministry and its road authorities that the activities for the start of the project will start as soon as possible, also as there are real opportunities for European funding. This section of the road is an integral part of the road links. In view of the fact that the municipality has fulfilled all the obligations under the agreement on the preparation, reception and financing of the production of the OPPN for the spatial arrangements of common importance and the professional basis for the connecting road and the high-water holder Črnolica three years ago, I ask the question: When does the Ministry of Infrastructure plan to launch a project, namely geodetics of land, land purchases, project documentation? In this regard, the Ministry of Environment and Space: When and how will it be involved in the implementation of an anti-floating project related to the construction of this road?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u354	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič and Minister of Environment and Space Mrs. Irena Majcen have a total of 5 minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u355	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable Member! It's all you've said. In short, it is a very important section of the link to the motorway network, especially for the municipality of Šentjur and the city centre, where the situation is actually unsustainable due to heavy traffic. As already mentioned, in cooperation with the municipality and the Ministry, this section was then placed in a space with a detailed spatial plan, which is about 8 kilometres long a new road link, which is estimated at about 32 million euros. Unfortunately, I have to say here that, in previous years' budgets, the state has not earmarked funds for this road; nor has it been foreseen in 2015. So, as Minister, I will certainly have to make sure that the funds for investment in the new road infrastructure are also provided, in line with the strategy for the development of the transport infrastructure under preparation. Here I see certain possibilities that, as you have already said before, this infrastructure can also be financed by certain European funds because it is a link to the existing nuclear network. Therefore, in the next perspective, we will explore the possibilities, given that the project has actually been put into space, we will try to secure the funds here. I will also say, within the framework of all those efforts, that as part of this so-called Juncker package we will learn as many projects as possible that improve the road link in the nuclear network, where this link would then belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u356	Thank you. The anti-floating measures taken in the area of the Municipality of Šentjur with inflows in Šentjur provide for the necessary measures for the implementation of flood measures in the district of Šentjur in order to ensure flood safety. The same project is worth 12 million almost 900 000 euros and is divided into sets. Currently, the implementation of B3 is in the final phase, and the holder is in fact phase D, which means that there is still a need to ensure and implement phase C, which discusses the arrangements for the confrontation of Kozarica and Voglajna and Voglajna and Slomščica. I have already said this before, and in my response report to the Court of Auditors, these projects or the implementation of these works will have to be given special attention, and I am actively involved in this. I do not hope to say that the matter will be closed within what time frame, even though it is envisaged to be implemented by 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u357	Request for a reply, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u358	Thank you very much. I am certainly satisfied with this answer so far; of course, I will be pleased when you know how to tell me a few more specific dates, specific numbers. But don't worry, I'll ask you something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u359	I guess you won't answer that. The question of sending is mag. Dusan Verbic, and he stands by Mr. Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u360	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, members of the Government, nice greeting! The Republic of Slovenia is in an unenviable situation. The fact is that there is a need for a serious approach to rationalisation of processes, particularly in the larger and wider public administration. Of course, in doing so, take the development component as fully as possible. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is at the 8th regular session 6. 11. 2014 has adopted a decision to include in the current 2014-2017 development programme plan a project called the Establishment of a national computer cloud. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: What is the content of this project and what will be the consequences or effects for the larger public administration and the whole public sector? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u361	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u362	Dear President, honourable Members! The national computer cloud project has been completed and is actually being implemented, and it is based on the fact that we actually have around 100 million gross costs in the entire state information system. More than 900 different informatics from different departments and ministries work in state information technology, providing equipment for about 25,000 users in the state administration. This data shows that our information technology is actually very irrational and also relatively expensive. Recently, it has become increasingly fragmented, and we are also facing a very serious problem called foreign vendor lock-in or dependence on contractual partners, without which we are having difficulty changing anything in the field of information technology. In addition, we have uncoordinated standards, incompatible databases, applications are often uncoordinated and duplicated. To address all these problems, we have used a quantum leap project that results in a state computer cloud as a basic information infrastructure. If I briefly state what is the fundamental philosophy behind this project, which I strongly advocate; namely, that data structures are separated from information infrastructure, servers, communications and all other matters, that applications are developed separately and that security is ensured separately. The separation of these four layers is essential so that we can actually have our data and our applications independently of the software provider. The state computer cloud is the basic infrastructure for this change to the changed approach to state information technology. And this moment I am pleased to say that we are very pleased that this approval has actually taken place, because the projects have already been largely prepared and in recent weeks we have actually completed them up to that stage that they are mature to apply for tenders. This moment is called a working team, which has also signed commitments and a basic way of working on this project. We are preparing for procurement procedures to provide this equipment, which will be carried out in cooperation with the Director of Public Procurement and the information team of the Ministry of Public Administration. In fact, we already have a comprehensive implementation project, so we are expecting a timetable for which we have also accepted that the state computer cloud will be fully operational in November next year. This means that for the first time, we will have a central infrastructure that will not be based on large expensive servers, so-called mainframes, on which all state authorities will be able to store their data. Above all, all the applications used by different national authorities – once and at the same time – will be made available to everyone on this cloud. Now each of them has its own solutions in its local information infrastructure. It is very important that we provide a universally accessible space in this cloud, where everyone can use the data and thus there will be no separate developments. Today we even have the situation that the same government, different sectors of the same company, sells the same solution several times at different prices. This can in fact be avoided by a state computer cloud, this is the basis for development. However, we plan to give this cloud to young people, if I so express myself, which means that one of the basics that we are building now is going to be for a closer state administration; a new one we are planning will be for the whole public sector. We also plan a third one to be opened in the future, and this one will also be intended for a small economy, non-governmental organisations and developmental purposes. All of these clouds are based on open-source solutions, which means that maintenance and open-source equipment is significantly cheaper for maintenance and purchase than the current expensive licensed equipment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u363	The question will be raised by Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Minister of Infrastructure Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u364	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Due to the liquidation of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, Members of Parliament from Zasavje are striving to make the breakup for employees, their families and the entire social environment as painless as possible. There is already a critical level of unemployment in Zasavje, and especially in the Needles, many failed companies and many more will lose their jobs due to the loss of energy. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: What are the options for further restructuring programmes of the Sava region due to the loss of energy since mining is already almost abandoned? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Peter Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u366	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member! Since the Termoelectrica Trbovlje has lost its only energy source and today, as we have heard, has already been in the liquidation process; it was already in 2000 when the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the developmental restructuring of the region, when there was still potential for the continuation of storage, so there is still potential for the continuation of the storage of the light fuel oil reserves, then for the maintenance and operation of the existing power system switch and there is also a possibility of possible so-called tertiary regulation with gas blocks. Otherwise, I see energy restructuring in particular in the light of the construction of a hydro power plant on the Central Sava and the development of SRESA. However, it should be borne in mind that before the construction of these hydroelectric power plants, this chain of hydroelectric power plants should be carried out in a sequence, even a series of activities which I have already explained in one of the previous issues. These procedures may also be of considerable duration and duration for a number of years. We know that the biggest time-eater here can be long-term space placement. Nevertheless, I would like to mention a few other things that have already been done by the State in the past in relation to TET. In the framework of the scheme, the State has committed to the use of a domestic primary energy source to secure electricity supply in the period 2001-2012 to TET some more than EUR 175 million. This scheme, however, ended with the cessation of coal production in the RTH and made it possible for TET to operate at that time. In addition, the country has so far allocated more than €86 million to close the RTH mine. Of this, more than 20 million were earmarked for the human and social programme, which means that everyone who hired the worker also received an amount approximately equivalent to the annual salary. At the same time, the State has endeavoured to ensure that the additional financial assistance for development programmes in the region is restructured as easily as possible, which is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor and will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u368	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister and Minister, Dear Fellows and Fellows! At Bled we have been discussing for a long time the need to build two roads, two railroads, the north and south highways. At Bled every day, 20 to 30 thousand passenger and freight vehicles are transported by two representative facilities Bled and Vila Bled. During the summer season, citizens and citizens wait until they arrive home in several kilometers. The infrastructure to Pokljuka and Gori is transported through the narrower part of Bled. It is anticipated that new woodworking centres are also planned in Bohinj, Gorja and Radovljica, which will further burden the infrastructure. At the moment, a detailed municipal spatial plan is being prepared, which is likely to be adopted at the December session, and after a new year, an implementation plan is also being prepared for the part on existing roads – Račiške and Ljubljanska cesta. On this basis, the first phase could be built in the summer of 2015. A project to obtain a building permit is already being prepared for the South Deployment Road, and all the parcels, doses and valuations have been carried out. So far, all procedures have been led and financed by the congregation. Since Bled is a tourist place, also known in the world, that not only local but also regional and national, I am interested and have a question for the Minister: Are you planning construction activities on the area? Do you have European or state funds to buy land? When is the start of the first phase of the works that would take place on existing roads envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The project of the southern unloading road in Bled is based on a decision on the location plan for the southern detour road, which was adopted, as you already said, in 2002. Due to some uncertainties and shortcomings, the municipality also adopted the OPPPN, which was adopted several years ago. Project documentation of PGD and PZI is completed for the entire line of the carriageway. The design is carried out in accordance with the Roadmap and an environmental impact assessment is also being made to obtain the environmental consensus. The pre-investment documentation, i.e. the investment programme, the Protocol on the regulation of mutual relations and the agreement on financing with the municipality are signed. The whole section has been plotted and the land acquisition process has also been initiated. The start of construction of the parcel or individual stage will be possible after the acquisition of the building permit obtained by the investor in accordance with the law on the basis of evidence of land tenure and certified and revised OVD documentation. More information on the price of the investment, estimated at around €39 million. That's as far as the south bypass is concerned. The Bled north loading road is placed in the area by the Bled municipality, as you have already said, with the OPPN, which is expected to be accepted very shortly. Data, you served with him, is expected at the December meeting of the municipal council. In both cases, the cost of building both connecting roads is the burden of the State. The project is demanding, and problems with land repurchase, decommissioning procedures are also expected. However, I estimate that within two to three years we could acquire all the land, and then the construction phase can begin, which would take another two years. Unfortunately, everything stops again in the provision of funds for construction, because in the current budgets the funds for construction have not been provided. It remains in the opinion that in the following budgets I will provide adequate funds for the start of both investments, which we will also try to do in line with the transport infrastructure development strategy, which is being prepared and will be forwarded to the public at the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u371	Mr Matjaž Germany will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u372	Thank you for your word. Dear National Assembly, dear ministerial team! This time, I will address the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Peter Gasperšič. As we have seen, today there are great needs in the area of infrastructure and roads. You are being approached by colleagues from all over Slovenia, the talk today was about the fourth, the third development axis, the motorway leg Drazenci-Gruškovje, as the colleague mentioned the pale problem. I'm addressing you for your indirect powers. I would like to talk about the coastline of the highway and specifically about the H4, I am talking about the arm of the Razdrto-Vrtojba. This is you, as we have already said, a well-known foot of the highway, because we are not talking here about construction, we are talking about maintenance works. That's why I think your powers are kind of limited. But since I approached the president of the Matjaž Prince administration a month ago with a question and an explanation of the problem, this time I am also addressing you. I turn to you because you have a lot of problems where we know they are not so fast with a recommendation that you can solve at least one part of Slovenia with a relatively small cartridge. [[…]] And that I, as a Member, will, of course, no longer talk about it, I mean it primarily well-intentionedly. I'm a magician. The prince has turned in terms of criticism of the maintenance works so far. I don't know if you have a chance to go, because I've been traveling every day on this section of the highway, from Ajdovščina to Bazara, the road is practically unsustainable. Not to look like it, but it's full of holes; it seems that since the construction itself, as well as my memory, this leg of the highway has never been seriously restored. For all the years, economists, at least officially in 2006, also point to the phenomenon of storms and promises that have been made, which, after some promises, should have been fulfilled earlier this year, for the construction of 20 kilometres of long anti-aircraft protection, which would in some ways enable our economy to function flawlessly in this end, which is very vulnerable in this time of year and in general. We're talking about anti-lighting intermediate green barriers, I'm talking about the station itself, or the road toll station at Bazara. Everything is left to the teeth of time. In my opinion, and I hope that you will think as much as I do that this problem with a small financial contribution and a lot of good will can be relatively quickly resolved. I am addressing you mainly in the form of assistance to help me get this foot of the highway back as quickly as possible and we are less affected by one problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u374	Thank you. Commissioner, I can say in relation to this section that Dars is regularly monitoring the state of all motorways and the network of fast roads he has in management. Thus, according to their observations, they started the first procedures for determining the causes of injuries on several sections of the H4 fast road years ago. At present, tender documentation has been prepared to start ordering projects for the reconstruction of the road structure for the most damaged sections of this road. However, the implementation of the reconstruction works is envisaged after the submission of the relevant project documentation and the provision of the relevant financial resources. We say that projects are now being commissioned, and then the execution will follow. Since these works will be quite extensive, we expect the reconstruction work to be carried out in several stages and Dars will ensure the implementation of local repairs on asphalts that will ensure the safe decoupling of traffic. This means that certain rags will be performed, which, of course, is not ideal. In doing so, I would also add to my observation that Dars has not invested in reconstruction work in the past years as much as was envisaged in the plan, which we will definitely have to eliminate and ensure that this is done in an appropriate way in the past, as we note that the motorway network is also failing more rapidly; and not only the network of state roads. With regard to anti-aircraft protection, this goes to the section of Razdrto-Vipava that in 2014 the procurement procedure for the production of PGD and PZI project documentation was carried out. Projectors were just introduced in the last month, so that the design is already under way and will be produced by the end of 2015. The implementation of the anti-aircraft measures will then depend on the provision of the necessary financial resources, which we know must be provided by Dars. We expect that funds will also be provided for this part in line with expectations. Indeed, we also need to ensure, in the concessional relationship with Dars by the State, that certain conditions and requirements are included, which Dars must ensure in the management of the motorway network. We find that this is very poorly arranged and, as a result, Dars also maintains or provides some standards according to his own judgment. Here we know that in the past, due to the storm, there were a large number of days when the highway was closed. Here we believe that a standard will have to be provided, for example, how many days a year the highway will be closed due to the storm; or such measures will have to be taken to protect against the storm, so that these closures will no longer occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u375	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Claudius Marquez. She will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Yes, I would like to ask Mrs Milojka Kolar her question. It refers to the reorganisation of the emergency service in the Republic of Slovenia. Madam Minister, we are aware that the Republic of Slovenia is establishing a network of emergency centres, which will be appointed by the working group for the organisation of a network of emergency centres, which has been appointed by the Ministry of Health and is in the final stage of its work. At the end of November, according to our information, we are expected to adopt conclusions on the emergency centres network. As I come from the ptujsko-ormoško region, I am approached by a profession from these municipalities. Although the General Hospital Ptuj was subsequently involved in this network of emergency centres, it was subsequently the only one to fall out of this so-called network that has not yet been established. Otherwise, the previous government has made a promise that the Ptuj-Omoz Emergency Centre will also be financed, but that is not the case. And now we're kind of looking forward to what's gonna happen. Because the fact is, they got the name of the emergency centre, all general hospitals and both UKCs. Only our bird general hospital didn't get it. We believe that the exclusion from the network of emergency centres is unjustifiable, as the Ptuj-Ormoski region achieves the criteria, in particular as regards the number of inhabitants, of geographical coverage for the provision of emergency assistance to the inhabitants. They would also point out that a number of places or general hospitals have been listed, reaching a much smaller number of inhabitants than the Ptuj-Ormoski region. From this point of view, I ask: What happened that the bird hospital was the only one out of this emergency center building program? Is there any chance that the construction of the emergency centre at General Hospital Ptuj is foreseen in the 2015 budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u378	Dear Mrs. Marquez! The project of the Network of Emergency Medicine Centres was included in the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2013 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2006 and was subsequently completed in 2008. In April 2011, the Ministry of Health received a confirmed decision from the European Union Commission, which, through an operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials for 2007-2013, provided the possibility of co-financing a network of emergency centres in Slovenia of EUR 30 million; with Slovenia participating EUR 5.2 million. This was the first package to build eight emergency centers. Two more later joined, so that the entire network, as I have already mentioned, is financed by the European Union of €42 million and slightly over 7 million of Slovenian participation. However, the Ptuj General Hospital Emergency Centre was not involved in the use of the funds mentioned above. The General Hospital Ptuj belongs to the Podrav region where the construction of the emergency centre at the Maribor University Clinical Centre is envisaged, where data from the National Institute of Public Health shows that all the more difficult cases come from the area covered by the General Hospital Ptuj. In the preparation of a single methodology for the development of emergency centres in the Republic of Slovenia, and now also in the preparation of the work organisation in the emergency centres, the position was taken that the network is also surrounded by the Ptuj Emergency Centre and is therefore covered by all those documents. I would also like to point out that Ljubljana's urban or so-called development of the Diagnostic and Therapy Service in Ljubljana is also not covered by the European funding method, but is fully financed from the budget, so it is also envisaged that the Ptuj Emergency Centre is financed from the state budget. For the time being, this draft budget, which is currently in force for 2015, does not provide this emergency centre or resources for this purpose. However, as Minister of Health, I will make sure that an important part of the budget is devoted to investment, including the construction of this emergency centre of the General Hospital of Ptuj; along with the candidature or the possibility of building a dispatch centre from European funds, because this would end the entire network of emergency centres across Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u379	Thank you very much. That concludes the so-called first round. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Luka Mesec will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u380	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, my question concerns today's liquidation of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje or the start of the liquidation process, if I start a little wider. In 1999, a referendum was adopted rejecting the construction of the third block of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, which sent a clear signal that the power plant would not remain there at the mid-term. As early as 2000, the Law on the gradual closure of Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine was passed, but most of the money that belonged under this law was spent on early retirement of workers; while nothing was done for the development of jobs and the development of the region in the medium term. For example, as far as Thermoelectric Trbovlje is concerned, many projects have not been implemented, it has not been transformed into a gas power plant, it would have been transformed into a heating plant, nor has it started the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava, which should at least partially compensate for the jobs lost at the Termoelectrica Trbovlje. This is coming to an end. Today news has come that Holding Slovenian Power Plants with Factor Bank, which is the second largest shareholder in the Thermoelectric Trbovlje Assembly, has launched a liquidation procedure, which means that the remaining 160 employees will lose their jobs within a few months, in a place that represents the second biggest social problem in Slovenia. In fact, there are 4 thousand 286 job seekers registered in the Employment Service in Trbovje. My questions are: First time. What is the position of the Government towards today's Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, which is state-owned and therefore under the control of the State? Another time. What else can be done about the Thermoelectric Trbovlje or what do you plan to do? Third time. What will you do in your mandate to address the social disaster in the Sava region? And the fourth time. What stage is the construction of a hydroelectric power plant in the middle of Savi? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was something quite said today about the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. You yourself have said that the story has long had a beard, that these things have been known for a long time that the mine in Zasavje will close down, that the thermal power plant will run out of energy and that it would be necessary to find other solutions for its operation at this time. However, those responsible in all this time have somehow failed to organize and find these solutions. In fact, in a way today, we all find with surprise that we are faced with a winding-up, which is something none of us wanted, probably not even the state and the workers; but before that, somehow we were all set up. I would like to point out that the responsibility for this and the problem of employees is not in the Ministry, not directly in the country, but that the directors of these companies are responsible, and then indirectly also in the Slovenian State Holding, through which corporate management of state-owned companies is carried out. From the interviews I had on Monday at the Zasav Committee on Energy Development with these directors and also later last week, I can say that I am aware that certain possibilities exist for the continuation of certain activities. We expected the directors to present this opportunity today, but that did not happen. The agreements reached last week were somewhat ignored and a decision was taken without these options being presented. As I can read, this task – it is said that a detailed liquidation plan is being drawn up, which will also show what is planned with some activities that could still be carried out there – is being transferred to the liquidation manager, who must prepare such a plan now within one month. I expect that, under this liquidation plan, it will be established that as many employees as possible can still be maintained in some of the activities I have already mentioned. In short, here are some powerhouse management, some fuel oil reserves, then the possibility of a tertiary reserve of gas generators and so on. The main development opportunity we as the ministry see in the development of hydropower in Zasavje, and we have already talked about this today. The main opportunity here is to build these hydro power plants, for which I really hope and we will strive to have them built as soon as possible; although, as I have already explained, there are still a number of difficult procedures ahead of us, particularly putting them into space. But, as we say, in this part, we do not expect any more serious complications with, say, Natura 2000, which is what we expect in hydroelectric power plants, which are then higher, against Ljubljana. So much for me to ask these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Completing the question, please, Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u384	Just for a little while. Regarding the hydroelectric power plants in Central Savi, I'm interested in: When could these projects begin or when could they be completed? When can we expect the first jobs there? With regard to the liquidation procedure, it seems to me that there is little to place responsibility on the liquidation manager now. Last but not least, the state is the owner here, and the country is also the one that could have demanded responsibility from the directors, given that they did not, in spite of an obviously different agreement, if I understand correctly, make no plans for further development. And I wonder, that's my second question: How do you feel about what happened today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u386	Thank you very much. With regard to the construction of a hydroelectric power plant in the Central Sava – it is unfortunate to speak now about when construction will take place, but if there are no unexpected complications, some placement in the space could be done – I speak for the lower three Suhadol, Renke and Trbovlje hydropower plants – in some two years. Minister, I'm sorry if I'm going to say too much, but these are kind of expectations for putting in a space that goes on without major complications. Then, of course, land needs to be acquired, project documentation can be produced, which can take about two years after experience from similar projects. Thus, if everything were fortunate, construction could be expected somewhere towards the end of 2018. As for the administration or jurisdiction of the State. The State has established SDH to manage companies and this management is carried out through this company; the directors of individual companies are also directly responsible for the management. Here we wanted to see that the state and the interference of the state or policy are somehow separate from corporate governance of societies, so in some ways I as a minister should not interfere in this action, even though I do not agree with it. On Monday, on the Committee on Energy Development in Zasavje, I could only, in essence, ask or in some way, in the hope that the directors would agree to do so, to draw up a plan to then follow up on this plan. However, as we can see today with sadness, they did not take this into account, just as they think it is necessary to comply with the legislation imposing certain conduct on them. This is the Company Act, which, we know, speaks if the company is not liquid, has to declare the liquidation process; or if it does not provide wages for more than two months, then even bankruptcy follows. They must comply with this law and have decided that they must do what they do. However, as I said, I hope that, under this liquidation plan, they will be able to ensure as many jobs as possible for existing workers as possible; even as the Director himself said he would do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will raise a question to the Minister of Finance in his capacity as Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Dr Dusan Maramor, who is excusedly absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u388	Thank you for your word, chairman. All present, and welcome again! The recent contribution to the prestigious weekly The Economist ranks Slovenia as one of the countries in which it advises. This refers to data from the World Bank, the Doing Business scale, where Slovenia also fell for five additional cities this year. Why am I exposing this scale? Because it is known to expose the best countries to the start of an entrepreneurial path. It is a major indicator of the country's competitiveness and as such an indicator to foreign investors in which countries make sense to invest. The areas where, according to these charts, we are the worst are related to construction, loans and the judiciary. Many countries have found that the promotion of foreign direct investment is of great importance both for job creation and for the acquisition of new skills and, of course, for the acquisition of new taxes into the state budget. In the past, it has often been pointed out that Slovenia is particularly interested in foreign investors because of its favourable geographical position. Today, we can no longer highlight this privilege that we once had, because Croatia is already in the European Union. We can only boast of a very well-educated staff. Therefore, Slovenia is not interested in investors, particularly because it has very high labour costs due to high tax burdens, due to inflexible labour legislation and in particular to a number of administrative obstacles and long procedures in obtaining both environmental and construction permits, due to unstable banking systems and also to inefficient judiciary. Following the share of foreign direct investment in gross domestic product, we are on the tail between European countries. That is why I am asking Minister Marble, currently acting as Minister of Economy, the following question: What measures, or what specific changes, will you make to attract foreign investors to Slovenia? I ask for the Minister's written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u389	Thank you very much. You'll get a written answer. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! The recent floods, which have hit the individual areas of our country for the second time this year, have caused significant material damage to housing, transport, water infrastructure and agricultural areas. The fact is that nature itself will not take care of any minor threat, for all predictions suggest that the consequences of the failure to act so far, or merely to seek partial solutions in this area, will require greater cuts in the state budget and in the budgets of local communities and, of course, in the budgets of our families. We all know that the key factors in causing the flood are the uncleaned watercourses, the poor or insufficient maintenance of water infrastructure facilities and the irresponsible use of space. The non-functioning system of concessions in this area is also of concern. Three concessionaires have received a total of €75.4 million in the last ten years for maintenance of watercourses, and in the same period we have experienced four major floods that have caused damage of €730 million. The country has planned several flood projects totalling around €615 million, but their implementation, unfortunately, translates from year to year. The damage was so much greater than the planned investments. More investment in the water infrastructure investment system would result in long-term solutions, thereby reducing the damage caused by floods and also by drought. The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment and Space, which is competent under the Water Act to maintain water infrastructure and grant concessions to economic public services, has so far not done its best. Madam Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, I ask you: How are you going to solve this, at this moment the biggest problem of ensuring the anti-floating security of our citizens? The implementation of the European Union Strategy for the Danube macro-region could produce important results. Do you agree with my statement? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u392	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, Mr. Joseph Horvat! On the topic of the flood — not on your question — but on the topic of the flood has been said several times today. I'll repeat some things, but I'll try to be quick enough. At the consultation session of the Government, we talked about the need to allocate more resources to maintain watercourses on a regular basis in order to ensure that this regular maintenance is carried out to the extent necessary throughout Slovenia, at least EUR 25 million per year. The tender for the selection of concessionaires took place during this year, contracts or decisions are adopted, contracts are signed for two concessionaires, while appeals are still under way in the other areas. Not only the Ministry of Environment and Space, but a wider group, including the other ministries, must draw up an action plan that will take urgent building measures for intervention on the poles damaged after this year's floods. And I say that not only after this year's, but also after the floods of 2010 and 2012. Furthermore, we would take action in a way where more emphasis would be placed on preventive flood action. Today we have talked about the UNO and the 1980 spatial plans that are still being used in some congregations. It is for the UN to conduct flood safety studies and, of course, the citizens of such municipalities also have higher security in the issuance of building permits than those of the citizens who have not yet been admitted to the UN. Today, I have come to understand from this discussion that some feel that without these documents it is possible to plan spatially in the congregations. I don't agree with that. Certainly one of the measures is a greater focus on preventive flood action in order to properly prepare spatial acts. There will certainly be a need for greater activation of existing and provision of new, not only financial, but also human resources for the implementation of these flood-related measures. In the following year, we will draw up a plan for the implementation of investments in 61 areas where a higher level of anti-floating security needs to be ensured. I myself am aware of the number 600 million, which, according to some grave estimates, would provide better anti-flood security. It is true, however, that when we examined the documentation or with our colleagues – but unfortunately only one co-worker on flood safety – found that there were many studies for these 61 areas; in a financial sense, we have not yet reached the number 600 million and will be known, at least I will then pass it, would not want to deceive anyone but myself. I will then be able to give this value from this project of anti-floating measures in 61 areas, and personally I am confident that we will not be able to ensure this for all 61. Some areas will probably be able to implement project documentation earlier, while others will require projects or studies. I'm not sure all the areas are built. We also need to redefine the Water Fund as one of the key sources for financing flood action. Here we now have the measures of the Court of Auditors which need to be implemented to remedy irregularities. Then there is a thorough reorganisation and optimisation of the operation of the services in this area, the removal of the normative and systemic bottlenecks that we encounter in the spatial placement and implementation of construction counter-floating measures such as dry and wet bulkheads or high-water embankments. But then again, I don't have much left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvat will complete it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u394	I would ask if you would give the Minister time to tell her everything she wanted to say in the context of this question of my mission, because I see that time is running out. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u395	Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u396	In order to make a concrete statement, it is only necessary to add that two investments are already under way, and these are the arrangements for the anti-floating measures on the Drava and Savinja River financed by European Union funds for the Operational Programme 2007-2013. In the next operational programme there are also somehow foreseen funds – 50 million are cohesion, 30 million are regional measures, and also anti-flood security. That seems necessary to me. However, I say that it will be crucial to lead my action, to finally move Slovenia from studying too long to performing on the ground and for people. For flood-prone measures, which are prepared and based only on paper, flood-prone entities — these are people, the economy, agriculture — do not mean much; or here I give my way of expressing myself — mean nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u398	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With regard to Article 26 of the Law on the financing of municipalities, additional funds from the state budget shall be provided to the municipalities at the rate of 50 % for the performance of tasks under the common municipal administration. The individual tasks that may be performed within the Joint Body are at this time the tasks of the Municipal Inspectorate, the tasks of internal financial control and budgetary accounting, administrative and professional tasks in the field of space management and the tasks in the area of the provision and implementation of certain public services. In view of the budget line on the 2015 budget, which shows that it is significantly increased and that you have also written down in the coalition contract that you will upgrade this area, I am interested in: Will this percentage of co-financing of joint municipal administrations remain 50% in the future? Do you intend to extend individual tasks under Article 26, paragraph 2, of the Co-financing Act? Here, at least as local communities say, it would be necessary to think about tasks such as human resources, tourism, public defence and social affairs. I ask the Minister of Public Administration for a brief reply regarding the level of co-financing and the extension of these tasks, and what tasks you have in mind. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u400	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. The system of operation of joint administrations has so far proved to be good – increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of municipalities. Experience in the field of municipal administrations is positive because the joint municipal administrations actually ensure the professional performance of those tasks for which the municipalities are in charge; and their implementation also in municipalities where they would otherwise be very difficult to organize, even in those very small municipalities which actually have only a few hundred citizens. The basic experience is good, as you yourself have already stated; in particular, it is intended to increase the expertise in carrying out tasks with those expert teams, which are specifically designed to achieve full staff employment, in order to not least obtain funds to finance joint administrations, which is a major motivation for integration. As a result, the costs of operation of municipal administrations are reduced. These sets of tasks – the most important are inspections, utilities, roads, space, orderliness, space regulation, internal audit, and often the subject of joint municipal administrations – have proved to be very good and effective so far. This also shows real involvement, for let us say from the map itself, we see that there are very few congregations that would not be included in the joint municipal administration. Currently, 195 municipalities are already included in 48 joint municipal administrations. If we look briefly, let's say in 2005, when this started, the country earmarked 466 000 euros for this purpose; in 2014, this spending will already be 4 million 800 in that part of the half amount and in 2015 we are planning to increase further. However, this increase is simply due to the fact that more and more municipalities are being integrated into the common municipal administrations and, on the other hand, the tasks of these municipal administrations are increasing; in fact, they are being paid according to the level of funding of the common municipal administrations. We believe that this mechanism greatly enhances the efficiency of the functioning of the municipalities. We ourselves agree that it would be good to extend the tasks of the common municipal administrations, particularly to the public defence, public services and development tasks. However, the Joint Municipal Administrations shall ensure the professional performance of those tasks which the municipalities themselves cannot carry out. More specifically, I can also present with numbers what is actually being invested in this area. For a summary, perhaps just this simple thought. We look primarily at the co-financing of the congregations in two ways. One is the municipal administrations with which we combine and increase the rationality of the functioning of the municipalities in those so-called verticals, in the regular tasks to be performed on a regular basis. Another method of integration, which is not identical to municipal administrations, is seen mainly in the regional integration of municipalities in the preparation, candidacy and implementation of major infrastructure projects. This is developmental integration, and in this part we have also set ourselves an internal task at the Ministry of Public Administration, and we have also repeatedly talked about trying to restore to the municipalities the support they once had in the form of special services for this purpose; this means that we would also have one place to support development, when applying for European projects, in coordination in this development context, while, of course, the joint municipal administrations will continue their work. In my personal opinion and because of the competence of the local self-government under our ministry, I am often asked what we will do in the area of too many municipalities, I always explain that local self-government is an autonomous category after the constitution. The state has no right to interfere as to how many congregations there are and what they are. However, we can effectively increase the functioning of these municipalities by promoting mechanisms such as joint municipal administrations. We will continue with this mechanism. I hope that we will also maintain this level of co-financing and, above all, we will develop community co-financing in regional integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hope Brittishek? It's okay, thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u402	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening to the ministers and everyone else! Today we have already talked a lot about youth unemployment, the employment of young people through the active employment policy that your ministry allows. We also talked about how social problems can become, or we have been talking about them for a long time. And I'd point out something else. Now that there are so many incentives for an active employment policy for young people under 30, there are real problems of employment for those between the ages of 30 and 55. When we look at the unemployment rate in September, those between 30 and 39 years of age have the highest unemployment rate of 23%, almost 24%. Between 40 and 49 years of age, almost 20% of unemployment. Of course, I speak among those who are unemployed. So I'm wondering: What will you do in the coming perspective or next year for all those in the age group between 30 and 50 in the field of active employment policy? For it is also happening in the field that employers forgive those who are 30 years old and over and employ younger than 30 and 26 years old, for they are given some relief. The next question is: How does the Ministry respond or how does the Ministry intend to respond in the field of education and retraining of those who are potential unemployed? When will national professional qualifications finally become more important in Slovenia? We know that national professional qualifications for a lot of people mean overqualification and thus a greater employability. Today, employers are also looking for additional qualifications, references and so on in addition to basic education. National professional qualifications have been present in Slovenia for some time now, but enforcement among employers as well as generally in education is very low. I'm asking you for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u404	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the question. And a nice greeting to all who are still in the hall! Active employment policy measures, as you have rightly stated, are intended for vulnerable groups in the labour market. And, of course, we are trying to focus the active employment policy as much as possible on those groups that need the greatest help on the market by addressing their specific problems on the market. It is therefore very important to measure the effectiveness of these measures in an active employment policy. One of the recommendations of the European Commission of Slovenia is to further target, thus targeting our active employment policies and implementing evaluations, and this is also one of the key directions of the ministry. This year, we have made an evaluation of the effects of active employment policy measures by giving each of the measures, where the subsidy is concerned, a control group with which we have identified the effects of this measure. And they are very interesting data – the greatest efficiency, so that subsidies are justified because people would not otherwise be employed, goes to the elderly who are long-term unemployed and those who are without education. The most so - called dead weight, so that people can get a job — when you look at a control group — even without subsidies, but especially in this age group that you mention: young people with a high level of education and those who are less unemployed. And within the active employment policy measures, if we have 115 thousand unemployed, the biggest challenge is that the state is focusing the resources it has on those who, without these measures, cannot otherwise be employed in the labour market. These evaluations are very important so that we can then react more purposefully. Of course, there are differences within the group mentioned — from 30 to 39, even to 45. They have different levels of education, different durations of their unemployment. Therefore, it is not true that people in this age group cannot be involved in any measure. They may, however, if they meet the so-called conditions of the more difficult persons to employ. For example, if they do not even have a professional level of education, if they are unemployed for more than a year, this target group is also eligible for e.g. Subsidies Employment.me and others. And next year, in the framework of an active employment policy and a new operational programme – where the European Commission is also when we coordinated this operational programme, which is the basis for drawing on the new financial perspective – we had to very clearly target the group of young unemployed and so-called long-term unemployed, within which we have the biggest problem in Slovenia with those who are older and have a low level of education. [[…]] Based on this and, of course, on the most rational use of these funds, we will also prepare a special package of measures, such as youth guarantees, for the long-term unemployed. And all those who are now 30 or up to 45, if they are long-term unemployed, that is to be unemployed for more than a year, will be able to participate in one of these measures. So we continue this targeting policy. It is clear, however, and it must be frank to say, that in the last period there has been a proportionate number of funding allocated to young people. If you look at 157 million in two years, that's clearly proportional to where we targeted these funds. However, data on long-term unemployment in Slovenia is increasingly a structural problem. We have within us all registered unemployed at this time 51% of those who are long-term unemployed, and from this point of view it is also very important to target this. Here I can relate to what you said, it is also very important that we give mechanisms to raise employment for these people. And of course, the recognition of informal forms of education in addition to formal – and national professional qualifications fall within this field of official recognition of informally acquired knowledge – is very important to develop or encourage employers to report it. However, it is a basic institution on the market of the Centre for Vocational Education of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as professional qualifications are concerned, it is very important which initiatives come from employers for the need to develop and then develop a standard. At the moment, we have 370 catalogues of recognition of various national professional qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u405	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, please, supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u406	I have to say that everything is nice and right to work for young people, for target groups. I know how much money was invested and how many young people were employed, that's what the statistics show, but still. Look, those between the ages of 30 and 50, they usually have families. For example, in our congregation, in Shentjury, when Alpos went to bankruptcy, they were not prepared for a simple market or employment agency. They haven't been given any direction where they can be redirected. Like the AHA Mure workers at the time, you said they could go to the metal industry. Today we are talking about the closure of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje and I am interested in: What will you do for those whom we know will be unemployed, and what overqualifications will you offer them? I know how many NPKs we have, how many catalogues and how many employers are asking at the institution, are giving initiatives, but many times the employment agency does not take these initiatives into account. And when we talk about target groups that are at risk, it seems to me that a family where two — father and mother — suddenly lose their job as vulnerable groups. By not having some concrete incentives between 30 and 50 years of age, we also increase the social distress of families, increase budgetary expenditure in this area and thus increase social transfers or social assistance for these families. I'd still ask you if you could say: What will be the measures in the future, how will you help those we know will become unemployed, what will be the overqualifications, or will the Employment Service give them early guidance? Today we talked about the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, where we know exactly that there will be so many and so many unemployed. Are certain re-qualification activities already under way for the possibility of other jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u408	We need to separate when it comes to measures for the unemployed, which are already registered, then they are intended for the basic institution — the institution. On the other hand, as regards retraining by employees or training of employees, projects are implemented through the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Grant and Development of Personnel. We have training and education programmes there, we have the development of competence centres, where some companies are doing this very well. For example, Glass Hrastnik acquired European resources, thereby educating its workers, redirecting workers, developing, modernising its production and today creating high added value and profit. I believe that if companies have good ideas, it is possible to obtain European funds, the ministry always hears that good projects can also be realized. I agree with you, more needs to be done to activate people before the open transition to unemployment. When the company already knows that it is in a restructuring – on this basis, in the Labour Relations Act and with amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Act, which was agreed at the time of the Minister of Vision, the possibility was that the unemployed or then the employees would be activated during the waiting period or this notice period. Here we agree with the institution that more needs to be done in order to take a more active approach to this; this is one of the institutions that are open to this. When you mention the Mura AHA case, it is very important that key institutions participate in the environment where they are, in the local community. For example, the Mure issue, then the very important link between the Chamber of Commerce, which operates on what they know, along with the institution, which are companies, what are the needs of these companies and what is agreed upon. This cooperation and strengthening of cooperation at the local level is very important. Programmes are, even in the future, for example, to strengthen lifelong career education for employees. But the key story is that companies know what they will do in the future; because they can then propose training and education projects for the workforce accordingly. For example, when the measure was subsidising working time and waiting on the job years ago, the biggest problem was that companies could not show what they would have been educated for, because the country had given them, they were given money to enable and train the workforce. Indeed, cooperation and integration between all actors and perhaps a clearer economic policy are very important, since then you have a very clear commitment to this active employment policy. Then, of course, the effectiveness of this active employment policy is even greater. All these projects, which have already continued, will certainly be an opportunity for improvement. And people between the ages of 30 and 50 will, of course, be included in the long-term unemployed package if they are registered for more than a year.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u409	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u410	Yes, I agree with you; if the company knows where it is going and what are the new directions for the company, what are the restructurings? I know the case of Steklarna Hrastnik, also Glass Rogaška works now to make the new NPK to retrain its workers. [[…]] It's definitely all right. But I was talking about companies that don't have a perspective where you know exactly how many unemployed they're going to be. It would be wise to have the cooperation of the institution, the ministry and the economy here, so that when bankruptcy occurs, those people will still have the opportunity to reclassify themselves to another, real sector, somewhere else or other, or self-employment. It is true, however, that only the Ministry of Labour cannot do everything that there is a lot in the economy, so that we can raise the economy and thus reduce bankruptcy and fewer employees. That is why I propose a broader debate in the National Assembly on what we will do in Slovenia to raise employment, how we will improve this active employment policy, the long-term unemployed and how we will improve assistance to those companies or those employees whose companies do not know where they are going and where they will give workers; they only know that workers are going to the employment agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 November in the framework of the vote. Mr Miha Kordiš will raise the question to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, who is excused to be absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u412	Thank you so much for saying that. We have developed, in particular, the practice of unpaid volunteer traineeships in the last few years, which extends to very different areas. Traineeships in education, law and social work are even required as a condition for access to a professional examination, which is also a condition for employment in these areas, which means that a large number of young people are forced to carry out this practice. Other traineeships, such as traineeships within the diplomatic and consular network of the Republic of Slovenia, are not a mandatory condition for employment, but are expected and constitute a priority in employment. The practice of volunteer traineeships is shameful, especially because it allows traineeships and, as a result, employment only to those who have been able to afford such traineeships, thereby preventing access to these services to weaker groups or those with a poorer economic and social situation. As most of the traineeships mentioned above are described by the Republic of Slovenia as volunteer traineeships, I ask Minister Karl Erjavac the following question: What legal acts are the basis for the practice of unpaid traineeships at diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Slovenia abroad? In the specific case of the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the EU in Brussels, it is also stated that unpaid practice is implemented under Belgian law, so please explain: Why is the provisions of Slovenian legislation not taken into account in practices abroad? What legal acts in Slovenia allow such a state? Who decides how many traineeships will be opened; and will these be paid or unpaid traineeships? Since the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated that he opposes unpaid traineeships, and also in the Coalition Treaty, the commitment to abolish this exploitation is of interest to me: How will the MIP take action to include both existing and future traineeships paid? Since Minister Erjavac is not present today, I would like to ask him for an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly, because it is a very pressing topic that many people are working on; and lately it has become an increasingly receptive branch of power and so on. Then there's the question for Minister Kopač Dark: How many unpaid traineeships are carried out within the framework of the public administration in the Republic of Slovenia and what is the position of the IMF on the issue of unpaid traineeships? What legal acts allow for unpaid traineeships in public administration, public institutions, ministries and so on? How does the Ministry intend to address this problem and what legal acts should be amended in this case, given that unpaid volunteer traineeships are being called at least within the framework of the diplomatic-consular network of RS abroad, traineeships in education and education, and traineeships in court in preparation for the state exam? Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u413	Thank you very much. The Foreign Minister will respond to the next meeting. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u414	Thank you. I will try to be quick to give the minister enough time, because the question is mostly about him, because you are particularly interested in volunteering within the diplomatic network and in particular in the Law on Foreign Affairs. In general, it is necessary to clarify that the possibility of volunteering is given by the Labour Relations Act, which provides that such traineeships can only be carried out in accordance with specific laws. The law of the ZDR provides for this possibility, however, which must be precisely defined by sectoral legislation. The Labour Relations Act, although it says that volunteering is not a work relationship, recognises certain rights; it refers to a break, a break between work and reimbursement of labour costs and protection and health at work. According to the U.S.R., this voluntary volunteering may last for a maximum of one year. We are also getting initiatives to prevent the Ministry of Labour and to prohibit voluntary traineeships in the U.S.R. I'm basically not for such a radical solution, because I feel like things need to be left behind, because there can be some exception to the system. However, it is important to look very clearly, and the government must have, as the coalition has said, that this is not permissible, and it is indeed necessary to see in sectoral laws whether this is necessary. If it is still necessary, then we must effectively ensure the possibility of providing paid traineeships within the state or public administration if we believe that this is still necessary for the quality of work. We, at the Ministry of Labour, have always had the Social Protection Act, the compulsory traineeship for social workers, we have been funding this through European funds since 2010. Without me saying that I am against volunteer traineeships, we have provided, within the framework of European funds, a payment for the implementation of this practice. In the framework of the Youth Guarantee, we also have the planned traineeship, and now, in a short time, the invitation to tender with the fax will be an immediate practice where we will allocate funds. However, we have already discussed with the field ministers and ministers to review the scope of volunteering, in which, as far as colleges for the functioning of the system – and of course young people's influx, the inclusion of young workers in public administration – would need these trainings; and to ensure payment under the operational programme, i.e. in the new financial perspective. A number of meetings and coordinations are taking place here; when the operational programme is implemented, financial resources will also be developed directly for this purpose and also for the number of cities. If I repeat, at the Ministry of Labour, we are actually implementing our social sector in such a way that there is no volunteer traineeship.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u415	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u416	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. That sounds awfully nice, I hope your efforts will bear fruit. But I'm asking: What is the clock here at work, when can we expect any results? It is true that it has been possible to speak a little more out loud about volunteering in the last few years, but this is only because the problem has been escalating. You mentioned payment or compensation with some European funds. I think we are all aware that European funds do not constitute a systemic solution. So I repeat my question: Do you have any schedule for the system address and systemic resolution to complete that we no longer need to talk about it? Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u417	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u418	I think that the government as a whole has committed itself to the coalition not to support volunteer traineeships, so that, as far as the IP is concerned, we will have to resolve things there, in particular provide financial resources. For example, already under the guarantees, the first challenge and traineeship, funded by the Youth Initiative, is 24.9 million and is 1 000 300 participants in this context. Already there are funds for this, I have told you that now the invitation to tender with the fax will be an immediate practice which will be published at the end of November; so things are going on. However, it is a key question for each of the departments to see whether we urgently need an internship in order to have someone at the end of college, when they are employed, or if they can do the job. My opinion on social affairs is that it is certainly necessary to give people a mentor, to enable them to have a little more support from the start; and even without traineeships they can pass at the end of one year a professional examination, which is the basis for further work in the institution where they are. It is crucial that each college in its own sector consider whether it still needs legal regulation to speak at all about the necessity of traineeships; or whether it could otherwise be ensured. Where the assessment of colleagues is that there is a real need for traineeships, it is necessary to provide funds so that within the public administration we can also pay for it. Because decent work — where the key is to pay for this work — is fundamental right and fundamental guidance, because of course I believe that this government will do so. Do not neglect the funds of the operational programme, the European funds that are the key funds, these are the Slovenian funds that we receive through Brussels, so that I will be very happy when we all ensure that these will be paid by traineeships. It's not some kind of short-term solution or anything. As you have rightly found, this practice is getting worse mainly because of the closure of employment in the public sector. In view of the fact that young people can enter because my colleague does not have the money to provide more resources in court, the option is that if we want to involve young people and give them the opportunity to do so, it is also possible. It's not the best, so we're looking for options to finance these traineeships.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u419	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u420	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, I thank the Minister for her answer. However, I propose that this point should be placed at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly to open a broader discussion on the issue of unpaid traineeships, where you could discuss your ideas, which you have brought to us today, slightly wider discussions, with a slightly wider input from both the public and all other groups of Members; and that, last but not least, young people who are forced into volunteer training today, it shows that something in this country is going on, however, that the existing situation is being challenged and that we may reach a solution in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u421	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish, your proposal will be voted on Wednesday, 19 November, in the framework of the votes. Mr Daniel Krivec will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u422	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers, especially to Dr. Peter Gasperšić, whom I will ask about the implementation of the Act on Measures to Eliminate the Acorn between January 30th and February 10th 2014! As in the previous question, when I have challenged the implementation of the Triglav National Park Act, I think that this law is particularly important in relation to the recent floods; and I expect some answers. This law laid down, at the end of February and at the beginning of March, a basis for action by the Ministry for Faster Action in certain areas, in particular laying down urgent intervention and preventive measures to remedy the effects of the acorn in Article 1. In the second indent, the Act also gave urgent intervention and preventive measures to address the consequences of the floods that have arisen immediately after the acorn. These floods have also been in the same areas during this recent period. That's why I want to know: On the basis of this law, which provided for this, was anything done under this title? Article 3 of this Law states that it regulates measures to remedy the consequences of both economic infrastructure and agricultural land. And also in the case of economic infrastructure – mainly on transport public infrastructure. That's why I want to know: What has been done through this law? But above all, I want to know: Was that the basis, which was in some way provided for in the law, for both direct damage and other State resources to be granted to the victims; was this final report on the injury itself submitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? For if it has been submitted, this law requires that this report be made known to the National Assembly within 15 days of the submission of this report to the Government. This seems very important to me, as I said, just in view of the new natural disasters that are practically touching us every day. And I think it is crucial that the Ministry of Field Affairs, which under this law is also envisaged to implement most of this law, explain to us whether it was from this intervention law, which provided an excellent tool for the ministry and all services to resolve certain problems, including in the area of flood safety. Was there anything done about it? Otherwise, this law is ineffective. Has this report, as foreseen by the law, been delivered to the Government within those time limits, as foreseen by the law?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u423	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u424	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member! Here I have prepared information regarding the implementation of the works by law relating to road and rail infrastructure. I'm just going to try to point out what I know. At its 53rd regular meeting on 3 April this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted this partial programme to address the consequences of floods, high snow and snow between 30 January and 27 February 2014 totalling EUR 13 million. Of this, EUR 4.8 million was allocated to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space for the purpose of establishing transport and carrying out emergency works on State road infrastructure; EUR 2 million for the execution of emergency works on rail transport infrastructure; and EUR 800 000 for the payment of the costs of aggregating into the economy. Subsequently, in October 2014 an additional million euros were allocated to the Slovenian Directorate for Roads to remedy the consequences of the acorn. The effects of damage to public road and rail infrastructure on agglomerations shall be addressed in accordance with the programme and with the available resources. We must be aware that the damage, particularly on rail infrastructure, was indeed high compared to the resources that the State can allocate from the budget to address these consequences. If I say briefly what was done in the field of road infrastructure. Here the funds were first used primarily to remove broken trees and branches which reached into the traffic profile of the road. The tracks were repairs of transport equipment and signalling, removal of wood biomass from the roadway, which hindered or further impeded the hive, and also pose a risk to road users, and removal of potentially dangerous trees on the hills above the road, cutting and trimming the branches and repairing or securing the shores. In the field of railway infrastructure, it is envisaged that this year the electric rolling stock network will be repaired on the Prestránek-Logatec track and an electric tow will be enabled on this section. By the middle of next year, the entire rehabilitation will be completed. If we take a closer look at what has been done so far, this is: the temporary rehabilitation of the electric rolling stock network at Pivka and Prestrek stations, the final rehabilitation of the electric rolling stock between Pivko and Prestrek, the temporary rehabilitation of the section between Rakek and Logatec, and the work currently being carried out on the train network at the section between Prestrek and Postojno, where the final rehabilitation is carried out. Work shall then be carried out on the rolling stock network between Postojna and Logatec, where temporary rehabilitation is carried out, and on the rolling stock network between Logatec and Verd, where all the electrification of the line is carried out, including the construction of all the foundations of the rolling stock and the construction of new structures of the rolling stock network. As it is said, these works are expected to be completed in the first half of the following year. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already provided part of the financing, as was said to be EUR 2 million, for the purpose of remedying the effects of damage on the acorn, for the execution of emergency works on railway infrastructure. We also received partial compensation from insurance companies amounting to EUR 5 million. The final amount of the compensation will be known after the completed proceedings by the insurance undertaking, which is expected by the end of this year. The remainder of the necessary resources of €23.5 million will be provided in accordance with the Government's decision to prepare changes to the 2015 budget. This will then also allow for this final rehabilitation. With regard to the report, I must say that I am not aware that the Government would deal with it; at least at the time that I am Minister, so that I cannot say anything more about this subject. As regards flood measures, also, in the context of what I have said, there have been few specific issues on road and rail infrastructure. What is in the environment, the environment, and perhaps the Minister will be able to say more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u425	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u426	Yeah, thanks again for saying that. Thank you to the Minister for this information or those answers, which were correct, as far as this is concerned. However, I wonder why, in this case, we are adopting some laws that are fairly decisively prescribing a certain procedure if we are not actually sticking to it further. I also have no information to consider this report, because I was also in the previous Assembly, but Article 4 clearly states how damages and certain powers are to be reimbursed. The basis, he says, is exactly the final report on the assessment of the damage to be submitted after being dealt with by the Government within 15 days at the National Assembly. It's not like that. Thus, we are rewriting certain legislation that is not adhered to by key sources. Because if we did, we would probably find in the National Assembly that certain intervention, remedial and preventive measures to address the consequences of the floods are not carried out — what you also find in the response. Once again, I would like to point out that your ministry, the Ministry of Infrastructure, is responsible for all these procedures, as defined by this intervention law. And I am further interested, given that Article 6 provided for the provision of funds also from the European Union Solidarity Fund, to which there was a great deal of deposit at that time: How much of this source has been obtained from the funds? The law also requires that, in preparing the draft budget for the following year, the competent ministries should, within the framework of their financial plans, ensure sufficient scope of the right of consumption to remedy the damage governed by this law. If we do not have a background document, the actual damage report to be dealt with shall be reported. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Both this organ and the government, I'm interested in: How will the competent ministries ensure the necessary scope of the rights to remedy the damage governed by this law? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u427	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u428	Thank you very much. With regard to these funds derived from compensation from the European Union, the funds that were then allocated to road infrastructure can be said to have been this additional million euros, while for the entire amount I have to say that I do not have this information now; however, I could then provide this in writing to you in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u429	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u430	Thank you for the additional reply, because we actually find that we do not have all the data and that an additional debate should be held on this. This will also allow the Minister to consult his department more closely and to identify what else needs to be done on this segment. I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the second paragraph of Article 246, we hold a debate on the Minister's response, as I said, to assist him and the department; in particular, to find out how this law needs to be implemented, so that draft budgets can be prepared in a qualitative manner for the coming years and that in some way we also avoid additional damage in terms of new flood safety, which is likely to affect us in the spring months. And in this way, we will also see whether it makes sense to adopt some intervention laws in which we prescribe a very exact procedure, and then we do not adhere to it throughout the actual year and the implementation phase. We are thus causing major problems in the operational area, and we are also making problems in some way to the Ministry and to those who should implement the law and thus ensure that certain consequences are eliminated as well as preventive measures to prevent further damage to both state infrastructure and citizens' property.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u431	Thank you very much. Mr Krivec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 November in the framework of the votes. Mr Andrej Chus will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u432	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Good evening to all colleagues and colleagues, as well as to the ministerial assembly, which you are still insisting on during these evening hours. Let me start by expressing my disappointment that the Minister of Finance is not in the National Assembly today. In the final phase, the work plan and activities of the National Assembly for 2014 and 2015 is known. It's a little funny that people or ministers are looking for responsibilities abroad at a time when they should answer us. Let me say very briefly for the beginning, I am a member of the lower Podravje, somehow representative of the municipalities of Ptuj, Destrnik, Dornava, Juršinci, Gorišnica, Trnovska vas, Vitomarci and Markovci. And unfortunately, since our lower Podravska region is one of the least developed regions in the country in general, that also offers very few jobs, a huge number of job seekers, especially young people, have chosen to seek employment abroad, particularly in neighbouring Austria. And, of course, since the opportunity is not at home, they have no problem taking one hour more each day and back from their permanent home address. But the problem is that such individuals are increasing. And this double tax, which I am asking the Minister of Finance, is an unpleasant or criminal thing, because at the end of this double migrant phase – not only do they pay taxes in Austria where they work, Slovenia also collects one quarter of their annual income or income. And if it seems moral to anyone, instead of telling these individuals thank you that you prefer to go looking for money or a salary abroad and then spend that money in Slovenia, as if you are at home in social life, which is some practice; no – we tax them twice. I don't think that's right; they're paying our salaries, too, and I think they need to be properly represented in this National Assembly. At the beginning of this year, the European Commission has also identified this very critical point, which I have already pointed out for two years as a member of the National Assembly, said: there must be no discrimination and the right of workers to free movement, which must not be hindered. We must ensure that these principles are also effectively reflected in the tax rules of all Member States, said the European Commissioner for Taxation and Customs Union, the revision and the fight against fraud Algirdas Šemeta. Mr. Minister Maramor, Minister of Finance, please give me a specific answer: With what activities will you prevent this unfair or immoral double taxation of day-to-day migrants who are saddened by more day-to-day? I request an oral response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u433	Thank you very much. The Minister will respond to the next meeting. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u434	Good evening, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, it is quite interesting at this evening that we are still together. Citizens are critical and unreliable to the functioning of the justice system and have virtually no faith in the independent judiciary. We're even witnessing on double scales. Unfortunately, bad light falls on all those in the system who try to make positive changes. The judgment coming before the European Court of Human Rights also bears witness to the critical state. Many international studies also show that something in our system is very wrong. At the same time, the most responsible and called for a fair justice system refer to incorrect methodologies which, by the way, are the same for all countries and ignore all findings of research. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is clear. Among other things, he says that before marriage we are all the same. The Constitution also states that offences which are punishable are identified and punished by law. Is that all the same? In fact, the authorities or their institutions most called to respect the Constitution and the laws are, without consequences, infringing and not taking responsibility. Let me just point out a few key points. The Council of Justice – late submission of legal reports; the State Defence Office – has violated as many as five laws; the Attorney General's Office – a violation of its own law; violations of its own courts are also known; the Information Officer – a violation of several laws; the KPK – 8 laws, including the law under which the institution was established or intended to take care of its enforcement. Minister, I therefore ask you more than justifiably: What, in particular, will you do to ensure that the rule of law and the above-mentioned governmental conduct of the heads of state authorities and institutions, which violate the Constitution and laws under the cloak of independence and independence, thereby disrupting democracy, the rule of law and a just society? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u435	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u436	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Member! I don't share an opinion with you. As I said in this morning's work, I do not think that the situation in Slovenia's legal state or the rule of law is at a satisfactory level. However, I cannot agree as Minister of Justice on terms such as: Under the cloak of independence and independence, they abuse legal norms and thereby undermine democracy and justice. Of course you have the right to think so. In this mandate, I will focus mainly on the current challenges before the Slovenian judiciary, improving efficiency, transparency, and thus the legal security of any individual who is in judicial proceedings. Otherwise, if you allow me to use your rhetoric, because your address was of course very clear and the question was extremely general. I have no doubt, however, if I conclude sooner, because you have the opportunity to make the question more concrete; and this is what I have to say. The things you said to her, we touched them in the morning. But I will be happy to answer you with a more specific question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u437	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please, supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u438	Thank you very much, Minister, for your failure. You are somehow underestimating to us Members or to me right now. In fact, your answer is unacceptable. I think I was very specific and I asked what you would do. That's why I'm adding, I'm asking you again: What, in particular, will you do to those violators, responsible persons, or holders of functions, so that these acts will not occur and that the laws and the Constitution will apply equally? For you, too, who were the former President of the KPK. Will you see to it that the laws apply to you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u439	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u440	Don't blame me, and I really don't want to look down on you. But will I make sure that the laws apply to me? I will!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u441	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u442	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this topic be addressed at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The distinguished minister has promised to ensure that the laws apply to him as well. Thus, let us consider those who break the law in this country, not just one law — eight laws, their own laws, five laws. On the other hand, there are the institutions of the functions most called for to avoid violations in the country. And I believe that the Minister will help people to finally believe that the rule of law in the country is the rule of law. However, I cannot agree with you that everything is so beautiful and right in our country, as far as the justice system is concerned, unless you already believe international research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u443	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 November, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u444	Thank you very much. Tonight is kind of ending in a strange way. The longest is said to be among the parliamentary questions in all the compositions of the National Assembly, and the coalition is here, and this is something new, usually it was not. And we're going to the question of the mission. Minister, in view of how you have responded now, I have a bit of a problem, or I have few questions about how to ask you a question. I sat there like you now, as Minister, and I know what it's like to answer Members' questions. I know what it's like to defend laws; at the same time, I know what it's like to ask parliamentary questions. I'm going to come from the fact that you certainly couldn't put things on your head in two months or something. And you're also not likely to be responsible for things that happened in the past before you became Minister. And yet, at the time you were taking over as head of the KPK, I was quite happy. You yourself mentioned once one text from that time, so I will now be careful when you become a minister; careful for the reason that I have some bad experience in running the KPK. My question was: What about the implementation of Article 8 of the Judicial Service Act? Article 8 of the Judicial Service Act 1994 made it very clear – those judges who, by their decisions in the judicial system at the time of their independence, violated human rights under the 1994 standards and in the period following their independence cannot be appointed under a permanent judicial mandate. As far as I know, I've been trying to find some data – this data is not available. The President of the Council of Justice once told the Committee on Justice that there were several hundred. I asked him for a list, a number in the courts and so on, but I never got it. The representative of the Council of Justice also spoke on the last Committee about the fact that not all judges were appointed as permanent judges, but there were never any exact figures. That's why I'm asking you: How did the judicial system comply with this provision in 1994? How many judges were not appointed to the permanent term of office at the time? I've written down these Members' questions and I don't think you'll have any trouble answering them. There is always some information on the day that the judge issued such a judgment in 1981, where he violated human rights. The last case is Mrs Žalikova; I do not think it is the last. So I think it makes sense for us to once answer these questions with numbers, so how does that work? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u445	Mr. Master, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u446	Dear Member, Dr. Gorenak! It's true, you sent the question forward, we looked. Otherwise: the law to which you referred – the so-called quasi-lustration clause, which was the only lustration provision in the Slovenian legal system – does not have any information on how it was used, the Ministry of Justice. Nor does the Council of Justice, as has been explained to you, think that, on behalf of the members of the Council of Justice, Dr. Končina Petrnell, also on the Committee. This is a provision which was addressed to the National Assembly. The Ministry of Justice or the Court alone has not appointed or carried out a re-election of judges. The figures on how many judges did not apply for re-election in the 1990s range from 80 to 100. These were the data we were able to obtain. That this provision was specifically applied by the National Assembly – I am talking about the National Assembly, not the Ministry of Justice, because it does not have these powers and does not have them – was in one or two cases. There is also a decision on this very provision — a decision of the Constitutional Court in which, in a binding separate opinion, they all signed by Dr. Boštjan M. Župančič and Dr. Jožef, Jože Jerovšek, who wrote: This follows that the standard in question is in the broadest sense of lex imperfect, because it does not have the legal masterpiece to sanction it, but is, at best, the moral commitment of the National Assembly to itself. That's the most I can tell you if you're asking me. The implementation of this standard has always been solely and solely by the National Assembly, which conducts the election or re-election of judges. But if you're asking me if I'm going to push for new lustration legislation, my answer is negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u447	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u448	In this part I cannot agree with you that the President of the National Assembly is here and he knows exactly – or he does not know – but he will know – when the agenda comes to order – the appointment of a judge, we get it, and so also in 1994, 1995, at least I believe that it is so, on the table the proposal to appoint a judge of this and this court, a person of this and that, with such and such information; and the end. [[…]] I believe that this is how the current president of the National Assembly will put it on the agenda, as was the case in 1995. So, for the implementation of this article, which said that they cannot be appointed to a permanent judicial function, those who are, as I quoted earlier, are, in my view, responsible justice and not the National Assembly. I think that justice is the one that has been preparing proposals for appointment for a permanent term. I can't agree with you here. I think so. Whether you stand up for a new lustration article or not — I did not expect you to do so, since it is also likely from a legal point of view that it is difficult to do so today, after so many years. But the other truth is that we can now work together on the basis of your response and what the President of the Council said that we do not actually have the data. This country has no data on how much this article was respected, how much it was not. Good; I know two didn't appoint the National Assembly. I assume you were probably thinking about Dr. Tonet and not Jožet Jerovšek in that opinion. Yeah, it's okay. So this country doesn't have any data on it. So in the future, I will probably be able to say that the judiciary did not respect this. At least I don't think the then president of the National Assembly is guilty, as you said. I believe that this part should be viewed differently, in my opinion [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] He can't be guilty, he can't be guilty. It's the justice that came to this. I don't know. What do you think of that? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u449	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u450	Thank you. Yeah, for Dr. Jerovsk, I thought it didn't sound right. Look, honestly, it couldn't have been then, we're talking after 1990, whatever we're thinking, it couldn't have been the wrong court. All the judges had to reelect at the time, and the re-electing was then carried out by the National Assembly. And also from what I've read to you, it's the only one who could apply this provision, because if you look at the legal provision, this is the only one that was the National Assembly. And even when he used it — I think in one case — he used it unjustly and against the person who later wrote the Penal Code under Dr. Sturm. We both know the professor, and I think we both respect him. This ostrich, or ostrich, cannot be directed against justice in this case, but against the National Assembly in the 1990 ’ s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u451	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u452	At this point, I must propose a debate; but I really have to propose it. The National Assembly certainly did not have data at the time, certainly not. Because if a judge, I don't know, issued a judgment in 1975 in which he violated human rights, and the judiciary, the proponents did not familiarise themselves with this information to the National Assembly; the National Assembly could not reject such a candidate, at least in my opinion. There are three lawyers here, and I hope they agree, at least according to their faces. Surely the National Assembly could not have been the culprit that led to such a situation. But in my opinion, I still repeat – justice. Why? Because it didn't give us any data. If the current President of the National Assembly receives a proposal to appoint this and this person as a judge there and there, because we all know what these proposals of the Council of Justice look like; there is some explanation of the work career and the formal conditions for fulfilling the appointment to the judiciary, in a permanent term and the end. And if the judiciary today, I speak quite hypothetically, silenced that this person, I don't know, would say, kill someone, was convicted, and the sentence was erased. Well, that was probably a bad case that was erased; but let's just say she stole something, cheated something, misguided bankruptcy and was convicted of it – and we'll name it anyway. [[…]] I wouldn't blame the President of the National Assembly if he didn't know, I wouldn't blame the Members if they didn't know. I propose that we discuss this in plenary session of the National Assembly and take some views on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-02.ana.u453	Thank you very much, Dr. Gorenak. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 November in the framework of the votes. Your Honor, I thank you very much after ten hours for insisting on the end. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Wednesday, 19 November, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, will decide on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
