ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-29-SDZ7-Izredna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 6th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Violeta Tomić, mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek, Marusha Škopac, Jelka Godec, mag. Dušan Verbič, Tomaž Gantar, Franc Laj, Ivan Prelog, Jan Mahnic and Branislav Rajić. I have invited Mr Jožef Petrovič, Minister for Economic Development and Technology to the first item, Minister without a resource, responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Mag. Violeto Bulc to item 2 and representatives of the Government to the two agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 24 October 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, the President of the Government was informed by the Minister of Economic Development and Technology. On 23 October 2014, the President of the Government, Dr Miroslav Cerar, informed me that Jožef Petrovič had resigned as Minister for Economic Development and Technology. The Minister informed the National Assembly that he did not wish to explain his resignation. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Jožef Petrovic has ceased to serve as Minister for Economic Development and Technology. On 28 October 2014, the President of the Government, Dr Miroslav Cerar, informed the National Assembly that until the appointment of the new Minister of Economic Development and Technology, the Minister of Finance, Dr Dušan Maramor, would be acting temporarily. I thank Joseph Petrovich for his cooperation and wish him the best in further work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, she was able to inform the Prime Minister of the Mag's derogation. VIOLET BULC WITH THE MINISTRY WITHOUT RESORVE, DEVELOPING, STRATEGIC PROJECTS AND COHESION. On 23 October 2014, the President of the Government, Dr Miroslav Cerar, informed me that he was a mag. Violeta Bulc resigned from the post of Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. For reasons of resignation, I give the floor to the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, mag. Violeti Bulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-29-SDZ7-Izredna-06.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to all, distinguished President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and once again, honourable Members and Members! First of all, thank you sincerely for this opportunity so that I can speak before you on such an important occasion. The last month has been extremely dynamic for me and, following the appointment of the Minister for Strategic Projects, Development and Cohesion, has been very turbulent. And there have been some truly remarkable events. I believe you're monitoring around 22. 10. which involved my appointment as European Commissioner, responsible for transport, monitored and had my own feelings and opinions. However, let me first take a brief look at the time of my leadership of the Development Service and European Cohesion Policy, where we have faced considerable challenges. At the time of taking up the post, our team's main emphasis was on supporting processes that would help to free up European funds as quickly as possible by the European Commission and consequently increase inflows to the state budget. We have been very busy with this, and today we know that the news is good. We can say it's 24. Ten. 2014 For Slovenia, all European cohesion policy funds, linked to the old perspective, have been definitively defrosted, which, of course, means a total of €248 million in flows. At the same time, Slovenia carried out that it could achieve all the important corrective measures, including, of course, the change that was linked to the calls for proposals and the discriminatoryness that we were given in relation to the Engineering Chamber or the membership of the Engineering Chamber. This was resolved and this requirement was transferred to a possible signature of the contract with the contractor, while Slovenia also had to take responsibility for certain projects where irregularities were detected and released EUR 6.2 million related to membership, in addition to the already mentioned Engineering Chambers, to the Prague-Hodoš projects, then the Faculty of Medicine and broadband. I think it was a very good and professional job. As you know, the latest news, we have been able to obtain the approval of the partnership agreement, which is extremely important for the next step towards effective absorption of the funds of the new perspective 2014-2020. Today, important dialogues with mayors are being held to confirm the content of the operational programme and, if this is successful, we can then expect the operational programme to be confirmed at the level of the Government and then at the level of the European Union, which will absolutely ensure that funds are drawn from the new perspective by the beginning of next year, which is crucial for Slovenia. As we know, these are our funds, and we are buying only the right to draw our resources according to the rules of the European Union, which we have also agreed with. If there is a lack of cooperation or unpredictable complications here, then these drawbacks will disappear to us for an unforeseeable time. For help and constructive cooperation in all the preparations, all three key documents I truly thank you from the heart, because without your help and your constructive comments and open dialogue, of course, we would not have achieved them. At the same time, allow me to draw attention to the exceptional importance of cooperation which the European Union has also recognised with all national parliaments and, of course, the European Parliament. As you know, over the past period, parliaments have been regenerating new powers, and I now conclude by inviting you to work constructively further. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] that such meetings can be repeated in the future. [[…]] It is to me that I will be able to represent Slovenia, in great honor, and again thank you for trusting everyone. I believe that this continued fruitful work is in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-29-SDZ7-Izredna-06.ana.u3	I thank the Minister for her explanation. In this regard, the National Assembly finds, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is a mag. Violeta Bulc has ceased to serve as Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. On 28 October 2014, the President of the Government, Dr Miroslav Cerar, informed the National Assembly that, pending the appointment of the new Minister, he would be acting on his own as a Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. Mag. Violeti Bulc, thank you for your cooperation, and I wish her the best in her work. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 6th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I hope for as many meetings as possible. Thank you.
