ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 61st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Branko Kurnjek and Mr Bojan Starman. I've invited representatives of the government to the meeting, and I welcome everyone here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 61st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 18 April 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Before we decide, I ask you to verify the operation of the voting apparatus. At the same time, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats so that we can vote. We're voting on the agenda. 42 Members and Members are present. I'm guessing there's not enough of us in the hall. Second time, I'll put to the vote the agenda. Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u2	I think we should take 15 or 20 minutes off, but not because of us. But this time it's not for us not to be seen in the opposition. Since you are in a hurry with this decision, I would suggest 20 minutes of breaks to concentrate, consolidate and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Han. But at this stage, when we vote on the agenda, such procedural proposals cannot be made. If, after the second vote, there is not enough presence, there will be a 10-minute recess and then a third vote. Those who will not be, unjustifiably, in the vote are now without a day's wages, if I may say so. In short, we are moving on to a second vote on the agenda. We're voting. 44 Members and Members present. I'm assigning a 10-minute recess until the third vote. We'll pick it up at 10:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before we decide the third time on the agenda, I just want to let you know that mag. Katarina Hotchevar will not be able to participate in today's 13th hour session. We are moving on to the third vote on the agenda. This is the third time we've voted. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 61st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the motion for a decision on the schedule of the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archivic Buildings and Archives. The draft decree was tabled by Mrs Eva Irgl for consideration by the National Assembly, which I give her the floor to further explain the draft decree. You have the floor, Mrs. Irgle. But I want everyone else's attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u5	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly! The Constitutional Court has decided that the National Assembly must adopt a new decree within seven days and also set a new date for the referendum. As the first to be signed under the referendum initiative and on behalf of more than 46,000 signatories under the referendum initiative, I have re- tabled a decree in the National Assembly, in which I reiterated my proposal that the date of the referendum should be set on 25 May – that is, the day of the elections to the European Parliament. If the referendum were to take place on that day, this would mean the lowest costs and, at the same time, the highest participation. Of course, this would also be very important because there is no doubt that this is also an extremely important European topic, which is why it is still appropriate to decide with the European elections. Let us recall only the resolutions on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which say that all the Member States of the European Union must do their utmost to keep the archives open; also the archives of the secret political police. It is also necessary to follow a decision of the Constitutional Court, which states, inter alia, that everything must be done in the direction of ensuring that people participate as much as possible in the referendum. As you know, the President of the National Assembly, together with the votes of the coalition, has decreed that an extraordinary meeting on the ruling today, not two days ago, as we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Of course, with this later reference, they have deliberately caused the most likely referendum to be impossible to carry out together with the elections to the European Parliament. Let me explain here that the President of the National Assembly should refrain from any action that in any way prevents or impedes the possibility of as many people arriving at the referendum; but does the opposite. In the coalition, you also constantly say that the referendum must be held on a stand-alone day. And what's your argument? Your argument is that voters, according to you, should not be able to vote on the same day on two things, it is a referendum and an election to the European Parliament. Let me explain to you that not only a healthy farmer, but also the Constitutional Court says that this is possible; and not only that your claim for such explanations is unsustainable. By the way, I did a mini-review myself and did a little background check on people's pulses as to whether they were actually able to decide or vote on two things at the same time. And you won't believe it. They all told me they could do it. Even more so that they are sufficiently well educated on the subject — as the Constitutional Court’s decision says — and that they can decide on it. I regret that the opponents of the referendum themselves made a political arbitral and arbitrary determination of the date of the referendum first on 4 May, then the Constitutional Court said its own, expressed a kind of non-trust to the National Assembly – or not to the National Assembly, but to the Coalition – but the coalition continued and, on the day of implementation, proposed on 8 June, and thus did not follow the decision of the Constitutional Court. In the course of this debate, I will have the opportunity to further clarify the agenda as a candidate, and now allow me to say just the following at the end of this five-minute introduction. Dear Members and honourable Members, a well-respected coalition! Stop pretending, stop making fun, tell the public directly that there is no argument and that there is no argument by the Constitutional Court, which would convince you that it would be best for the referendum to be carried out together with the European elections. Your goal, of course, is clear — to tease, stall, abuse procedures, hinder and mock. You are acting contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, you are acting against the prudence of the use of public funds and, last but not least, you are acting contrary to the will of more than 46 000 signed under the referendum initiative, which we proposed on 25 May to carry out the referendum. Of course, I will fight for this date by myself, as first signed, and let me say that as the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will table an amendment and re-propose the date 25 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u6	Thank you. Before I give the floor forward, I would just like to make it very clear once again that today's meeting on April 24th allows the referendum to be held on May 25th, so that the allegations that were made concerning the President of the National Assembly were misleading, as evidenced by the amendments you tabled to propose a referendum on May 25th. The motion for a decree was also addressed by the Committee on Culture as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u7	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, submitted by Mrs Eva Irgle, was discussed at the 13th urgent meeting on 23 April, which was yesterday. The motion for a decision by Mr Eva Irgl explained that she had put in the procedure a motion for a decree as a member and, inter alia, suggested that the National Assembly should deal with it as soon as possible, allowing for a vote in the legislative referendum on the law at the same time as the parliamentary and parliamentary elections already announced to the European Parliament on 25 May this year. It considered that costs at the same time as the referendum and the elections would be the least and that electoral participation would be the largest and the subject of the referendum would be the substantive match of the elections to the European Parliament. The Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc, has taken the decision of the Constitutional Court in his work that it is a constitutional requirement that the National Assembly should ensure the effective exercise of the right to vote in the referendum as a right to a positive status; the very nature of the right to vote in the referendum at the same time as the constitutional requirement for a quorum to reject the law at the referendum and the requirement for fair implementation of the referendum procedure in each individual legislative referendum are important constitutional starting points for the National Assembly, when, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, it sets a date for voting in the referendum. As long as it moves within these constitutional frameworks, the date of the referendum vote shall have a wide field of discretion. The day-to-day referendum, which would not be the same as the day of the European elections, would allow a separate referendum campaign from the campaign for the European elections, which is a good thing, as it supports the decision-making of the electorate and the electorate on the future separately from the decision on the past. The Constitutional Court, in his words, has also found that the pursuit of the objective of not mixing the two campaigns is not unconstitutional if, at the same time, it does not interfere with the right to vote in the referendum. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their opinion and drew attention to the third section of the draft decree. He explained that the provisions on the date of the invitation to tender had a similar effect as the period of leave, which required the provision of a constitutionally permissible period of leave from the date of publication of the decree to the date set as the date of entry into force of the decision and the date of the invitation to tender. The shortest constitutionally permissible period of leave shall be the day following the publication of the decree. The debate focused on the third and fourth sections of the draft decree. Some discussers felt that voting in the referendum should be allowed, together with the elections of MEPs and Members to the European Parliament, because there are no constitutional obstacles to the simultaneous implementation of the referendum and the elections; and thus there are no obstacles to the convergence of the referendum and the electoral campaign. Others considered that the date of the referendum should be set on 28 April, as the Council of State will decide on the proposal for a decree at today's meeting and thus, on 28 April, the first possible working day following the publication of the decree in the Official Journal. In order to best inform voters and voters, which should also allow responsible decision-making – and because the referendum and the elections to the European Parliament are for two different content – they considered it more appropriate that the referendum and the election campaign should not be intertwined, as some legal experts also expressed concerns; they therefore suggested that the referendum should be held on 8 June 2014. Mr Pukšič proposed, as a proposal for an amendment to the Committee to the fourth section, whether the time of the previous national elections or the local elections, which the Legislative and Legal Service considered to be unacceptable. After the discussion on the individual parts of the proposal for a decree has been concluded [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The amendments tabled by the Committee have been adopted by the SDS amendment to the third section, PS, SD and DeSUS by the fourth section. [[…]] The amendments adopted are included in the amended decision proposal and given to you for assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u8	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u9	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Constitutional Court repealed the Decree on the call for a legislative referendum on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives adopted by the National Assembly on 1 April 2014. After the provisional detention, when it assessed that the consequences of enforcement might be significantly greater than the consequences of detention, no other decision could be expected. As we have seen many times before, this time we have seen different interpretations of the decision. The proposers of the initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the decree in a well-known manner interpret the Constitutional Court's decision in a triumphant manner, alluding even to reading between lines. However, if we read the decision, as it is written, the decision was based on the view that, at the time of holidays and holidays and on the day of the vote, effective exercise of the right to vote would be hampered immediately after them, which could undermine the fairness of the procedure and undermine the legitimacy of the decision. However, the warnings contained in the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court strengthen us in the conviction that the proposed date for the exercise of the vote on 8 June 2014 is most appropriate among the options afforded by the acquis. Thus, only a small proportion of the electoral performances will fall during the holiday days and holidays. At the same time, it is possible to exercise the right to vote effectively. For it gives voters and voters enough time to get to know the subject and allows them to express their referendum will unhinderedly in different ways during the period when there are no holidays or holidays. This is, last but not least, in line with the statements of the Constitutional Judges, which will ensure legitimacy in the referendum decision. On 25 May, in particular on the basis of the position expressed by the Constitutional Court, this could not be claimed. On the contrary, we are convinced that the implementation of the referendum on 25 May would be contrary to that decision of the Constitutional Court, since the procedure for carrying out referendums in this case cannot be fair in any way, but would be a direct violation of the rights of voters and voters by the legislator with unacceptable restrictions and unreasonable conduct. If the referendum is held on 25 May, then Slovenian nationals who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia will not be able to file an application for registration in the electoral register if it has not yet been registered, as the deadline for lodging the application will expire today, 24 April, at midnight, so before the decision is implemented in the Official Journal. In this way, one category of electoral beneficiaries would be deprived of human rights, which by its very nature is the so-called right of positive status, which is certainly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In determining the date of the referendum vote, the National Assembly shall be fully independent. This also follows from that decision, where it is stated that the National Assembly, as long as it moves within the constitutional framework, has a broad field of discretion when determining the date of the referendum vote. It is also important to note that the postponement of the implementation of the referendum for a disproportionately long period is not allowed. Those who opened champagne at the time of the Constitutional Court's decision insist that elections be held simultaneously in the European Parliament and the referendum on the archival law – at all costs. Once arguments are lower costs, even though they are worth EUR 1.3 million, this is almost or virtually nothing to them. And secondly, the argument is quorum. Every word about allowing for more effective expression of human will is merely cheap and valuable populism. But slaloming between costs and the quorum reveals the right argument; a strong political equation of client strategies indicated the possibility that when a client base is mobilised, a good result will be achieved in elections to the European Parliament and create a few more ideological capital, which will come at just the same time – and this will be the case with us. Over the last period, we have also heard several times about the strategy's written implementation, namely that archival issues are a first-class European theme. The truth is that all this ideological joy with the European idea, and even less with European ideals, has nothing in common. Let me finish with another legal detail. In Legal Practice, we were able to read the opinion of the Doctor of Legal Sciences, Janez Pogorelec, who reminded us of a new fact – the amendment of article 90 of the Constitution of Slovenia. He wrote that the situation "requires a serious consideration as to whether, following the amendment of article 90 of the Constitution, the referendum is at all permissible to be carried out at the same time as the elections or with another referendum, without this – even though formal participation for elections and referendums is conducted separately – completely eradicated and manipulated the provision on its quorum and put the candidates of those referendums that will not be held at the same time as the elections into a substantially different and totally unequal position with those whose referendums will be held at the same time as the elections". And that's what it's about. It's about manipulation. It's about ideological controversy between the instigators of the referendum. This time with the procedure; handling the content will be a witness to the referendum campaign. Dr. Janez Pogorelec concludes that "the rules of the game should be laid down for all referendums equally and they should be addressed in the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, whose novelty is currently in preparation. It is quite clear, however, that in future referendums and elections will have to be held in different ways, even for each other a suitable distance from each other." In the Group of the Social Democrats, we will be supporting the motion for a resolution by supplementing that, as the date of the referendum, it will be set out on 28 April 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u10	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u11	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a result of the new earring of the Constitutional Court to the National Assembly or the ruling coalition, after a bad month, we will again decide on the decision to call for a referendum on the amendment of the archival law required by over 46,000 citizens and citizens. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that the referendum is the foundation of direct democracy. This is a democratic process in which all citizens with electoral rights can participate and give their opinion on a particular issue. Therefore, the will of those who have signed under the referendum initiative must be understood and respected. Just like a month ago, today, as we did at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Culture, we will be discussing which date is more appropriate for the referendum. In this case, we are available on May 25th, the day of the European elections, which is advocated by the referendum's proponents; and June 8th, proposed by the coalition. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, like the motions for a decree, we estimate that it would be more rational to hold a referendum on 25 May, as the cost of implementation would be considerable, about EUR 1.3 million. Otherwise, we will all be Members, regardless of our views on the date of the referendum, the subject of disapproval of citizens and citizens as we throw their money out the window, but the caravan goes on no matter how loud we are. It is therefore to be expected that the amendment of the SDS colleagues to hold a referendum along with the European elections will not be adopted and we will invite voters twice in fourteen days to vote. Let me stop at the content that will be decided at the referendum. At a time when we could understand that it would be up to us to open or oppose the archives of the Judgment. We had already decided on a similar issue at the referendum years ago, and the result was clear. More than 70% of the voters identified decided that the archives of the former SDV — State Security Services, Udba — should remain freely accessible. But things are not as simple as they seem at first sight. The referendum will decide on the fate of the entire archival law, which in a variety of ways means improving the current situation in the field of the archival profession. The latter is not alone in whether the changes to be decided at the referendum constitute greater or less accessibility to the so-called oral material. We can't or can't agree on that. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we can only regret that when we had this opportunity in the government, we did not know or could arrange this area in a European comparable way, which would be clear and would not allow different interpretations to which we are witnessing both in the current regulation and in the regulation to be the subject of a referendum decision. We are afraid that the decision of citizens in the referendum, whatever it may be, will not fully regulate the areas of adequate accessibility to the materials of the former State Security Service. In the Slovenian People's Party, we insist that everyone has the right to a grave where other living relatives can light candles, remember it, worship it. Many relatives are still unable to do so today because they do not know what happened to their relatives or where they were laid for their last rest because of the destroyed material on the crimes of the totalitarian system and because of this public access to these materials. Crimes from the past need to be investigated and found out where the victims are and, above all, who their bloodbaths are. We therefore support the current regime, which, in our view, facilitates the exploration of such crimes. We also support the identification of voters and voters in the referendum on this issue. It is a pity, however, if the referendum is not held on 25 May, that you have not adopted the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party, that the referendum should be together with any early national elections or local elections to be held in the autumn. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u12	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u13	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! In the DeSUS Group, we respect the decision of the Constitutional Court to repeal the decision to call for a referendum on the amendment of the Law on Archives, although we regret it. If I may comment briefly on the constitutional decision. The opinion of the DeSUS Group is that it is not a restriction on the right to a referendum because, in the week before 4 May – that is, the date on which the decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives set out for the implementation of the referendum – school holidays, which would make it difficult for the vast majority of voters and voters to monitor the referendum campaign and to vote and vote early on the referendum. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we ask whether working days would make it really difficult for citizens to monitor the campaign and go to voters. Doubtful. Quite the opposite. It is our opinion that due to the work of the day off, both the awareness of the campaign and the subject of the decision and the participation in the referendum would be higher on that date. But the decision of the Constitutional Judges has fallen and we are all obliged to respect it. The SDS Group has been insisting since the request for a referendum has been tabled that the vote be held simultaneously with the European elections, which we oppose in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. We're arguing for two reasons. The first reason is that two such important matters are simply not to be decided at the same time. The instigators believe that archival issues are a first-class European theme, and we cannot agree at all in our Group of Members. However, the issues raised by the archives relate to the half-lived history of our country, which is why they are primarily and only of national importance. As such, it is not appropriate to decide together with the European elections. The second reason is that there is a legitimate fear that, as long as the referendum campaign and the election campaign for MEPs coincide, the latter will be heavily contaminated by ideological debates. The largest opposition party since the consideration of the amendment of the Act on the Accessibility of Archives in the National Assembly has used this excessively to politically account and to fabricate and distort facts misleads citizens and citizens. In this regard, we should add to what has already been pointed out by the competent ministry, and the Constitutional Court has confirmed that the pursuit of the objective of not mixing the two campaigns is not unconstitutional unless it is at the same time an infringement of the right to vote in the referendum. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we would like to reiterate that the responsibility for the costs incurred for the referendum is borne by only and only by the proponents. Saying the first signed letter to the Government, if the Government had not tabled an amendment to the Archives Act, then the SDS would not have started collecting signatures for the referendum and there would have been no costs for the referendum, is more than inappropriate and inappropriate. Her words are a serious offense to all those citizens and citizens who, because of the difficult financial situation, are only struggling to break through from day to day. However, in order to prove the financial situation of both the state and the citizens, the SDS Group of Members does not or does not do anything, it is only the fact that, despite the profession's view that the amendment of the law opens Slovenian archives more than ever before in the history of our country, they have begun to collect signatures and have also taken the initiative to call for a referendum. Let me finish. On the basis of all of this, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the decree on the implementation of the legislative referendum on 8 June 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u14	Thank you. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u15	Dear Members, honourable Members, honourable President! In accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has to be openly commended, this is obviously a very important issue that has been decided by the express and in record, never before seen fast deadlines, so today we are re-declaring the call for a legislative referendum. As the most appropriate date for the referendum, it turned out on 8 June 2014, as we are still convinced in Positive Slovenia that it is right to discuss the referendum initiative separately, rather than to join the European elections campaign, which we believe would also be an abuse in terms of constitutional regulation in the field of referendum. From here on, I could say that the position of Positive Slovenia is almost entirely consistent with the views of our coalition partners, according to the SD and DeSUS Group. Allow me, however, to remind myself once again of the contribution in the recent Legal Practice of Mr Janez Pogorelc, Doctor of Legal Sciences, Deputy Director of the Government Office for Law, associate professor at the Faculty of Business Sciences. It is probably not a coincidence that Mr Pogorec has already been mentioned today, since we probably all agree that he is not one of the experts of the so-called left province. In order not to repeat the same quote as Mr Bevk, let me say that, inter alia, Mr Pogorec firstly, as is now modern, criticises policies on an average basis – notes that following the adoption of the amendments to article 90 of the Constitution, with which a quorum of at least one fifth of all voters who have to vote against the law in order for the decision to be taken in force, it would be inappropriate, if not even by unconstitutionally tendering a referendum on the day of the election or on the day of the second referendum, since it is possible for the quorum to actually be completely played or manipulated in advance. Since the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution amended the quorum, participation has become a constitutional element of each referendum, which should not be affected by anything other than the voter's will to participate in the referendum. If the electorate were further invited by elections or another referendum held at the same time, this would mean that the referendum decision partially loses its original independence and would in this case be much easier achieved; this fact could have a direct impact on the validity or invalidity of the referendum and consequently on its outcome – the rejection or non-refoulement of the law. In the opinion of Dr. Burner, we must by no means allow this to happen. The rules of the game should therefore be laid down in advance in the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Above all, in his view, it is clear that future referendums and elections should be conducted in a different way. I would even take a time-to-time stand. The savings arguments for pooling referendums and elections on the same day should then, in his view, not be taken into account, at least if we do not want to treat the referendum the same way as the elections and if we do not want to discredit individual applicants. And while we are already talking about the austerity arguments that the proponents so like to mention – the SDS party, which says that we, the coalition, are responsible for the higher costs of running the elections and the referendum on different days. Let me say, as Mrs Porotat has already said, that the costs are primarily borne by the SDS as the initiator or initiator of this referendum. You are responsible for both the success of the referendum and its costs. For those in the public who do not follow our meetings and developments in this area in such detail, once again, let me draw attention to the position of the State Election Commission, which is as an independent and independent state body concerned with the implementation of the referendum, already discussed the question of implementation at the same time, it is said on the day of the European elections, noting that the electoral committees for the European elections are composed on the basis of the representation of the parties in the European Parliament, while for the referendum they should be drawn up on the basis of the representation of the parties in the National Assembly. This would mean that those parties not represented in the European Parliament could challenge the composition of the electoral committees and thus the validity of the referendum. I think it is unacceptable to put into question the legality and implementation and validity of the referendum in this way. Let me say one last thing. Many people, the public, as well as the media, once again point out that we are wasting a lot of time and unnecessary energy in the National Assembly for topics relating to the past and to ideological accounting. Again and again, I would point out that the proposal for this referendum is on the side of those who, with the first-signed Mrs Evo Irgle, who staged this referendum. Let me conclude that, by means of the motion for a decree that we are deciding today, which proposes 8 June as the appropriate date for the referendum, we follow the Constitutional Court's decision, which provided that the National Assembly should set a date in order to allow as many electoral beneficiaries to participate in the referendum vote as possible, and it is irrelevant that the applicants would like to forget this, including a declaration of their will whether or not the adopted law should be enforced in the National Assembly. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will of course support such a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u16	Thank you. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nine times the Slovenian Democratic Party was mentioned, although Mrs Porotat, Mrs Kociper, was happily charged with SDS. I must say so – this child, called the archival law, was conceived by the Minister, born by a coalition and paid for by alimony. It's gone. It is entirely for all costs and for the start of an ideological battle that the coalition is solely to blame. Without the law being passed, we could not talk about the referendum. Otherwise, let's go to my part of the contribution I'm going to make on behalf of the Group of Members that I belong to. There is one thing that needs to be said clearly: we deal with archives whenever there is a political option on the left. For the first time, we began to take these archives seriously in 1996, when the first law was passed after the independence of this area and it was meant that all archives of former sociopolitical organizations, parties, courts, police, State Security Services and so on should be dedicated to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. That's when they could have kept secrets. To this day we had no problem with any of the archives, no police work, no judicial work, no party work or any other work, everything was fine. But we do have one problem that has been going on since then, and this is the problem of archives of the former State Security Service, or the archives of the Udba. Of course, this part of the archive is problematic until now solely because of this and only because of the left political option, which, in fact, its inspiration, which is in fact its foundation, is fueling its life juice from that time and from the activities of the former State Security Service. Sova did not respect until 2007 the archives were handed over to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2007, the famous Sturm Commission, which was torn apart by the media – I was a member of it, I don't know what we were doing there – discovered that the law was not respected, so we adopted a law where we said once again that it was going to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and that it became public. This happened in 2007. At that time, we also made it very clear that we had protected the victims of the Resurrection and with 11 sensitive personal data; and we took the officials down to our gats if we called it that. I mean, the officials aren't protected. What the current government coalition is doing, which is an ideological struggle in past actions, has in the past begun to legislate and has continued to this day, is the following. First, she compared the victims to the killers and prescribed five or six protective factors for all, if called five or six restrictions. It is said that those who — so as to know — have ordered and executed the murder of Stephen Montenegrin and now live here behind the parliament are the same as him. So the killers are the same as the killers. If that's ethical for you, it's not for us. It should also be said that serious problems in this area did not begin until 2010 when Igor Omerza published the first book based on the archives of the Udba and that the government coalition, the then government coalition and the then minister had unlawfully prevented him from accessing archive data. On the contrary. Your predecessors or you — those who are still sitting here on the left side and in front of me — have, of course, closed the archives so that researchers could not go in; 73% of the people said no to you at the referendum. Now, let's see, no economic crisis, no financial crisis, no budget, nothing matters to you. It is important for you to close the archives of the Udba. That's important. Instead of adopting economic laws, financial laws, laws to make life easier for people, you have adopted such a law. I already told you one thing very clearly at the public hearing. If you took one millimeter of human will from 2011, I will propose a referendum to my parliamentary group, that was then. Then, on the famous committee where we talked about this law, we came almost together. Mrs Potrata has almost danced, so we can see in the media that we have reached an agreement. I was happy at that time, too, because it all showed that with the amendment – which we did not support, but we did not oppose, it was an anonymisation – that the minister would still submit an amendment or coalition in the third reading, which would mean an agreement; which would mean, for the first time, that the victims were not identical to the killers, and for the second time that we did not protect the assassins, the contracting authorities, the officials. However, you did not do so, and the logical consequence was that there was an initiative for a referendum. Of course, you spoke cheerfully, and the media was happy to write about how the party's president started a referendum with one tweet without the party's will and I don't know what. Let me tell you that the party's executive committee has adopted such a decision that if the law is adopted, we will propose a referendum, so that this needs to be rectified a little bit. The beginning of the signature collection was clear, 46 thousand 700 and several signatures. If anyone else can do this except SDS, let them know. I don't think it works, as you know, you said it yourself. But we're going to this thing we're talking about today. We have already said that we do not want to cause special costs and that we are proposing that the referendum be accompanied by the European elections. Of course, then there was all this colloquiation with Mrs. Eva Irgle. Once she was a Member, once a citizen, once she was nothing or whatever, so that we came to that first decision on the referendum, which was quite clear, very clear. At that time we also made it very clear to you that it is imperative not to sign the referendum on 4 May. I was building my performance – I'm not a lawyer, Mrs Popot is, she also referred to the fact that when we had a dialogue on this subject – I was really referring at the time mainly to the fact that it was not permissible for people to take 9 days of electoral campaign. By the way, with three days off, people will be home for nine days, you've served me with some data, and the minister found them, that 4% of the Slovenians are going on vacation. Yeah, in Hawaii, those who still have money while everyone else can be at least somewhere near home, taking a vacation. The Constitutional Court, as you can see, has, of course, fully attached to what Mrs Irgle wrote in the initiative – and congratulations – and has completely rejected the lawyers and all those who advocated the referendum on 4 May; and Mrs Poropat was particularly loud and Mrs Potrata was very loud at all these meetings. But all of this was rejected by the Constitutional Court. He told you no. And it summed up what we or Mrs Irgle wrote in the referendum initiative. So once again, the costs of the referendum – if we express them in another way that you want to build on June 8th and we on May 25th – mean that by pressing the button you will spend 23,000 scholarships of 100 euros or 5,000 750 pensions of 400 euros. Coalition, this is your responsibility, once again. You can lower your costs now, but by voting for May 25th. Of course, we were talking about the decree about this booth here, in this hall, and it happened what should never have happened, and it never happened in this room even when Kardelj spoke behind these booths. In fact, the word was taken from Ambassador Irgle. People were "slapping" when you were on a broken TV, and I don't know what it is. Since 1945 this has not happened in this hall, ladies and gentlemen. Imagine what happened. All that was missing was taking her with the cops, and we could go into the world. That would actually be good, because you'd show your face. See, in any way, it is also necessary to say this in relation to this decree, that it is exclusively and solely to protect the crimes of the State Security Service. Because the Croatian Parliament has adopted similar legislation just before joining the EU, and you have seen what happened. Ladies and gentlemen, one day when we will escort the first, second, third and others to the German courts, the Austrian courts, to the airport of Brnik, we will have to look to the ground. It's not allowed to protect those who killed, it's not allowed, it's not human, and it's not human. Of course, we, the opposition Members, are also brainwashed by former members of the State Security Service, who are also protecting themselves. For the referendum you wish to set up on 8 June, it is imperative to say the following, firstly, we will not follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, which clearly stated, the decision of the Constitutional Court is clear; it is the duty of the National Assembly to set such a date, which will represent the maximum possible participation. It is in the Constitutional Court's decision on page eight above. On 8 June, of course, your aim is to minimise participation. Why? Because people will already go to the European elections on 25 May and will say why they would go again on 8 June. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't need any comments, Mrs. Potter. I don't need to listen to you. Now I have a word that has not yet been taken from me. But it's not polite. You can go out and talk. It should also be said that your wish, for the first time, is that on June 8 people would not come to the referendum. And that's an exclusive reason and you're not interested in costs, you're not interested in anything. You're interested in the ideology of the "supercleber" type, which is called the Rise and Protection of Her Crimes. The Constitutional Court therefore made it clear that no. It is urgent to say that your goal is exclusively that participation is smaller. And today we can see that you also had a fig in your pocket last year when we made a constitutional change. We have agreed to quorums at the referendum and to a golden rule which, of course, you do not realize. That's the same thing I said before. To conclude, I am trying to call you once again to this understanding and reasonable step. This is, for the first time, to reduce costs; for the second time, to follow a decision of the Constitutional Court saying that it is necessary to ensure such a referendum day, which will represent the maximum possible participation. To conclude, there may be another thought. I don't know if you've thought about what will happen on the day after the vote if you decide whether to pass the law or by decree on June 8th. The opposition has some other options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u18	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. The first one has the word "magic." Majda Potrat, prepare the mag. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Today we have an extraordinary meeting where we need to set out a decree on the call for a referendum, not everything else, which was a little earlier in the speech. So let me stop at what is the subject of today's decision. I am in favour of the amendment of the coalition parties to the third section, which sets the beginning of the referendums on 28 April. This seems perfectly logical to me that the time limit is mentioned in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and that if we followed what is now stated in the decree to begin the referendums tomorrow, immediately after the publication of the Official Journal, this is one of the shortest deadlines. I understood, however, that all the efforts made so far by the motioners or decision-makers have gone this way to ensure that the electorate and the electorate have sufficient time. But that's not the only question. It is simply what Samo Bevk also pointed out in the SD Group's opinion, if she began to run tasks tomorrow, then part of those who have not yet been recorded in the electoral directory would be prevented from voting at the referendum due to the need for a 30-day deadline. And so today, 24th, this deadline expires. This is the last deadline before publication, so it is not possible, it must be filed today and it must be signed first. We do not exercise fundamental rights here. And those who so much refer to constitutional law and equality should be aware of it and should stop insisting on such a set date for the start of electoral activities as is now recorded in the decree. That is why I am already predicting in advance that I will support the proposed amendment, which counts as the start of the electoral process or proposes 28 April. Second. On many occasions, some, in particular the motioners and the initiators of the referendum, refer to the Constitutional Court's decision. I would point out, in the Constitutional Court’s decision on economics, on economics, there is no reference to funds anywhere other than on the third page alone, in the fourth point where the Constitutional Court summarises the arguments of the motioner for a constitutional assessment or for the retention of a decision. Nowhere else does the Constitutional Court refer to economics in its decision; the financing and costs of the referendum are not addressed, since the Constitutional Court in its decision derives from the importance of the referendum as a direct expression of human will, as an opportunity for each individual whose free will is to come to the referendum to express his or her support or non-support to the proposed law at the referendum. Third thing to talk about. The Constitutional Court in its decision speaks of the need to enable voters to participate in the referendum as much as possible. And this led the Constitutional Court to repeal the decree it imposed on 4 May because the early vote in one part coincided with the holiday days, which is the tradition of the holiday season. The Constitutional Court considers that each individual has the right to enjoy his or her free time. And if this is the basis for the decision of the Constitutional Court – June 8th, which by the way is the day of Primož Trubar, the State holiday, it does not coincide with any restriction. Because early voting does not fall at a time marked by any holiday day. So these main clues, which are just blank readings, don't stand the judgment. And now there is only a proposal for the simultaneous or simultaneous implementation of the referendum with local elections or national elections. The amendment, which I did not put to the vote as Chairman of the Committee at the notice of the Legal and Legislative Service that the amendment should have a precise date, was not contained in the amendment. That is why we could not vote on such an amendment because it did not meet the conditions for it to be spoken of. I'm so sorry. The number should indicate what date it should be when it is decided. Here, however, there was only a descriptive definition, either of the early state elections or of the local elections. All of this needs to be considered when you talk about what the Constitutional Court imposed on whom and what it did not impose. Once again, it didn't talk about costs, you don't have a chance to track any record to talk about it. And 22. Point – Constitutional requirement that the National Assembly ensure the effective exercise of the right to vote in the referendum as a positive status right. This effectiveness shall not be compromised in any way if the date of implementation of the referendum is 8 June. And even if you ask the Constitutional Court about this, it's your free will to do it again; but you're wrong about those who talk about speculation, manipulation, and I don't know what else. However, there are many things to talk about if we discuss such a type of referendum – a rejection referendum, as is now regulated under the new Article 90 of the Constitution – in a way that is discussed and discussed by some who wish to gain some advantage by combining the parliamentary function and the citizens' initiative in giving incentives to call for a referendum. This is something that the Constitutional Court has not stated because it has not found constitutional infringements in the application of the Rules of Procedure at all points, in all stages of regulating this subject, or in the home working body or in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u20	Thank you. The word has magic. Katarina Hočevar, prepare for Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Today we will hear a lot of in-depth analyses, legal expertise, so I will not burden our citizens and citizens with this. I didn't even want to come by, but I had just received the e-mail of our citizens, a businesswoman from Zagorje, who is working every day to fill our budget, the state treasury. She wrote to me about this: that the representatives of the people in the temple of democracy should direct all their energy, attention, fighting and even the passions of the past to the present and the future; that they should direct each other's accusations to the debate on improving the business environment. And since that is not the case, I have nothing else to add to today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u22	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor to prepare Mr Aljoša Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u23	Thank you very much. You are now in the coalition and your task is, as well as the opportunity and opportunity to improve the business environment. As regards the decision to call for a referendum, the following: I told the committee yesterday that there is no need to deceive the Slovenian public and to explain something to them that is not true. Simply say, we are a coalition, we have a majority, and so we have decided because we do not want the change of law or law to fall to the referendum proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Say it loud and clear! Not to be fooled by certain distortions, but how did the Constitutional Court understand it and so forth. You have no idea. We're not worth it. You don't! Because the Constitutional Court has ruled as it is. Last time you explained here, your lawyers, under the adage, how oh and everything was okay, even in the Real Estate Tax Act, the Constitutional Court said to you, "No!" And this time it's the same. Tell me, we have power, we have power, and we've made up our minds, we don't want you to succeed, so we're going to do it so that you have as few chances of success as possible. As regards the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. If we had so much intelligence in the coalition, we could simply take it as one of the rescue plants and accept it. In my opinion and belief, some of the other experts in the National Assembly were a little over the thumbs of the coalition. The deadline for my amendment is precisely set. Determined whether there will be early parliamentary elections to be called by the President of the State; however, if this does not happen by 31 August, the President of the National Assembly will call for local elections – and it is specified. On that day there would also be a referendum and preparations under the law should start at least 30 days earlier. And that's it. It's all set. Saying something about how someone's not going to be, but it's not in the directory, and, like, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, by the way, you've forgotten about our cousins, our cousins in the place and in the world. [[…]] You know, they can't wait to take a thousand kilometers to the referendum in 14 days; first to the European elections and then to the referendum for a thousand kilometers. I mean, we make fun of them. Let's tell them – look, we don't want you because we don't need you! Stay home, that's why we're gonna do it. And of course you also report this to the Slovenian public. We all know because the Constitutional Court has written that as many voters as possible will come to the referendum. When's the most? There are significantly more coming to local elections, slightly fewer coming to countries, at least to European elections. And far from being sorry about the referendums. And if we want to take this into account, we should choose each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the floor and Mr Robert Hrovat is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Jerich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! Once again, we are deciding on the date of the referendum call, and once again, Members, the initiators of the referendum will convince us that perhaps, in order to reach the quorum, the referendum will be held simultaneously with some other elections, as this is how they count on the party of the referendum's proposer to reach the quorum at first, which is necessary for the referendum to be in force at all. I fully understand them that, as candidates, they want the referendum to succeed, for which they have every legitimate right. However, I would like to remind them that, at the same time, the holding of a referendum with some other elections or referendums could somehow remove this real participation that such a referendum would have achieved if it had been carried out on its own day. And since the new quorum is one of the conditions for the success of the referendum, the simultaneous or separate implementation of the referendums is no longer such an innocent thing. I believe that we all agree that the referendum is the highest and most direct form of democratic decision-making. And if we all agree to that, then we should all advocate such conditions for the referendum to be as neutral as possible to all. Thus, by setting a date, neither those who agree with the existing legal solution nor those who disagree with it and wish to end it with a referendum should be privileged. Neutrality to all different thinkers is thus the highest criterion in determining the date of the referendum. The proposed June 8th is a much more neutral date or a neutral date, which is by no means the 25th of May, as we know that elections to the European Parliament will be held on this day. And since the replica to my debate, if the applicant wants to carry out the forthcoming consultations at the same time because of the significantly lower costs of simultaneous performance, I would like to make it clear, as already mentioned by colleague Kociper, that, in this case, the National Election Commission should significantly increase the number of members in the context of the various criteria for the composition of the electoral committees, which would consequently significantly increase the implementation costs themselves. So this argument about the higher costs of separate consultations, as we see it, does not hold. Of course, the additional argument for separate implementation is also the complexity of the matter to be decided at the referendum. Indeed, because of the complexity of this matter, there is a danger of greater manipulation in the public about the content of the law itself and in order to avoid these manipulations, it will be necessary to pay particular attention to learning about the matter, for which – even in this case – all logic speaks in favour of the separate implementation of the referendum and consequently separate from the campaign to be conducted. I will take whatever neutral advice can be given, and I will push for the implementation of June 8th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u26	Thank you. I give the floor to Ms. Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u27	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! I have to respond to some extremely misleading and manipulative statements coming from a number of coalition members. First of all, Mr Jerič said that it would be best to hold a referendum on a stand-alone day, because citizens should not be able to decide on two issues at the same time. Mr Jerič, the Constitutional Court simply stated that such a claim as you are defending or constantly interpreting in public is insurmountable. Citizens and citizens can and are able to decide on two things at the same time, there is a referendum issue and what, let's say, we should be represented in the European Parliament elections in this case. Let me also explain that the Constitutional Court had already pointed out in paragraph 21 in 1996 that a referendum could actually be held — at the time it was a referendum on the electoral system — along with the national elections. There wasn't much of a dilemma about that. And that is not what some individuals have said somewhere or politically defined people say, but what constitutional judges have said. This was said by the Constitutional Court, which said that a joint referendum and elections could be carried out. I'd like to ask that you don't actually fool around here in advance. Another thing that has been constantly occurring both in the public and here in the National Assembly since the novelty of the Law on archival material has been carried out is that we are the cause of this referendum. Let me once again say that if the Government or the Ministry of Culture did not submit a new law on archiving to the National Assembly, we would not be collecting signatures, and today we would not be discussing again what is the most appropriate date for the referendum. You wouldn't. And let me say here that the Ministry went to change this law. There was no need for that. No need at all. Finally, in 2011, people with 70.88% support clearly decided that they wanted the archives to remain open. But the government has trampled on this will of the people and introduced a new law into the National Assembly. And this was not some anti-crisis measure that we need and what Mrs Hočevareva's colleague used to say. I agree with her. The country is in a serious situation so we can make fun of it. However, when it is found that the Ministry has done something, then the opposition responsible must respond to such questions, especially when it comes to respect for human rights, which is undoubtedly also the right to knowledge. And that's also what the decree, or the novelty of the archival architecture law is about. Let me explain that the Ministry of the National Assembly introduced the amendment of the law just at the time when the publicist Mr Omerza and Mr Ljeljak discovered the killings committed by the former State Security Service. Of course, it's not a coincidence. It's not a coincidence. 80% of Udbov's so-called Udbov material was destroyed in 1990, 1991. And it is known who was responsible for this destruction. Among other things, Mr Ivan Eržen, who ordered the mass destruction of archive materials in 1990. And of course we, as the responsible opposition, are obliged to do everything we can to ensure that something like this never happens again and that we keep those 20% of the archive material intact, especially accessible and open to the public. That's what matters. This is important. And also about the date of the performance. I will insist to the end, even as a first-signed and, of course, with the support of more than 46,000 signatories under the referendum initiative, that the referendum be held together with the European elections on 25 May. This is not because an election base needs to be disciplined, but because it allows for the lowest costs for the referendum, but also for the highest participation. And so is the decision of the Constitutional Court. And there is no need to deceive the public here, to constantly manipulate; you are working hard not to hold a referendum along with the European elections. That's a fact. This is your only and key goal, you are not interested in costs, you are not interested in practically nothing. You have only a narrow political goal ahead of you. A narrow political objective, and everyone knows it, because they see it through all this debate, which has been taking place for quite some time in the National Assembly. In short, let me do it again. If you vote today on June 8th for the referendum day, you will have to take responsibility for the resulting costs of the referendum, which will be significantly higher than if the referendum took place on May 25th, and of course you will have to explain to citizens and citizens why you have decided to do so. Why you have decided so irresponsibly, not according to the prudence and economy of public funds, but even though you have been bound by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u28	Thank you. The word is first given by the representative of the Government, Dr. Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u29	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! Today we met again to set the date of the referendum on the amendment of the archival law. There are two proposals on the table, one for the simultaneous holding of the referendum with the elections to the European Parliament; the other wants to split the two days. My position on the date-setting remains the same as before, so much more so as the Constitutional Court's decision to confirm in its decision that the pursuit of the aim of avoiding the entanglement of the referendum and the election campaign is not unconstitutional if it does not interfere with the right to vote at the referendum. The latter is the right to a positive status, which means that it commits the country to a certain course towards its application. In particular, it undertakes the National Assembly, which must ensure respect for this right when it comes to the date. In determining the date of the referendum, the National Assembly, with the words of the Constitutional Court, shall have a broad field of discretion within the constitutional bases of ensuring the effective exercise of the right to vote in the referendum. The National Assembly – the full autonomy of which the date is set. It is restricted by law, limited by some basic constitutional principles regarding the implementation of referendum and human will. Moreover, the Constitutional Court also stated in paragraph 29 of the decision that it is true, I quote, "that voters and voters can freely express their will by voting at the referendum if they are well informed of the subject of the decision". It's not that people aren't able to decide things on the same day, which is so very flat-rately manipulated. This is a whole process of awareness of the subject, of the arguments of the legal opponents, of the arguments of the opponents of the law and of the right to information; not of the possibility of anyone being able to decide two, three or ten things in one day. And go ahead. In the same point, the Constitutional Court states, again, that I quote: "The care for good information and awareness of the content of the law, the arguments of the proponents of the rejection of the law and the arguments of the proponents of the enforcement of the law are in itself necessary for the effective exercise of the right to vote at the referendum." The date does not have a special connection to this. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore left the date of the referendum to the legislator, and at the same time – I sincerely hope – a field of argument from which today, out of decency and respect for his role, does not show an exit; even though this, according to what has already been heard, is unfortunately only a pious wish and we will probably see the same movie again today as before. In setting the date of the referendum, I should also point out the concerns of the two legal experts we have already heard about. This is the case in Legal Practice 10. 4. 2014 Dr. Janez Pogorelec in the introduction entitled "The referendum is still admissible to be discussed at the same time as the elections" highlighted an important aspect of equal treatment of referendum candidates who will not be at the same time as the elections, with those whose referendums would be held at the same time as the elections. In his argument, Dr. Burner, "a serious consideration is needed as to whether, following the amendment of article 90 of the Constitution, the referendum is even permissible to be carried out by elections or by other referendums without completely nullifying and manipulating the provision on its quorum." End of quote. Similarly, we have heard Dr. Rajko Pirnat think that on April 10th, in the Diary on TV Slovenia 1 said when there was talk of a referendum as a weapon of human will that, I quote, "this will, therefore, is a human will made up of two. I'm going to the referendum, and that's what I'm going to decide; but no, I'm already there and I'm going to decide about it." End of quote by Dr. Pirnat. All of this is true today when, by setting the date of the first referendum following the amendment of the Constitution, which pursued the goal of withdrawing the Institute from the reach of politics and surrendering it into the hands of the people, a precedent is set for all possible future referendums, which is why today's debate is still very important and necessary. The referendum is in itself the result of a political compromise – despite the willingness of one party to it and despite the fact that an expert compromise has been reached – being unsuccessful. This is the case with the archival law. As a candidate, the government has prepared the law on a regular basis, has been preparing since 2009, has gone through all stages of public debate, including the public presentation of opinions in Parliament, and unfortunately policy on this has not found an appropriate solution. The purpose and purpose of the Institute of the Referendum have been to protect the Members and Members of the Legally Formal Wisdom precisely with the last amendment of the Constitution; this time, the subject of the referendum, the novelty of the archival law, should not be a means of political accounting, but rather a goal on its own. That is exactly what the sixth point of the Resolution speaks of European consciousness and totalitarianism if we are to read it to the end and to the full. I must also briefly say whether this archival law has been passed only through some political inclinations. Mrs Irgle said earlier that this is not an anti-crisis law or a law that would in any way facilitate the operation of companies. Of course that's not true. The Novela responds to a number of shortcomings in the archival law and, in addition to the more transparent conditions for access to archival material, for the first time, regulates the important differences that apply to public and private persons with regard to the adoption and validation of internal rules. Novela brings the fact that private companies will no longer need to confirm internal rules through the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia because we found this too burdensome; it burdens them for this. The novelty allows private law persons to use internal rules instruments and does not oblige them. Of course, the Novela brings extremely important developments at the level of digitisation of archival materials and the modern functioning of archives, which are still important not only in terms of streamlining the operation of archives and archives, but also in terms of accessibility. And yes, also in terms of cost rationalisation. So much for a little bit about it. I believe we'll talk more about this. I believe that, in view of these arguments, it is necessary to separate the European elections and the referendum vote, so, in line with the initial position, I propose that you support, honourable Members and Members, a solution whereby you will separate the choices of the electorate and the electorate on the future from the decision of the past. In view of the already heard and in view of the aspirations for the 25 May election date, I suggest that you remember what this means for all our citizens who will vote outside the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr Jerič, please have a replica for the implementation of Mrs Eve Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Just a brief replica and a thank-you to Mrs Irgle for her warnings; but they do not, I did not say that a simultaneous performance would be impossible in any way. I also did not say that citizens would not be able to make decisions at the same time. It's not at all, not at all, surrounded by one or the other, it's not difficult, I don't know what kind of ability. I am convinced, however, that the neutral outcome of participation would be more appropriate for a separate consultation. That's what I said before, and I'm saying it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat has the floor to prepare Mr Mirko Brulc. Here you go, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! I think I'm rational, I think I'm a real person, but I always follow efficiency. And I think the time has come given these debates that we are hearing here today to kind of calm our passions. I think it's going too far and we're talking about things that aren't that important at all, but they're taking our time. Look, there's gonna be a referendum. It's a fact that can't destroy anything. In less than one month, 47,000 citizens and citizens signed under the request for this referendum. We probably all recognize that this is a high number, that this is really a lot of people, and that this actually indicates the dissatisfaction of people with the adoption of the law that you supported by the coalition, but of course it was prepared by the Ministry. At the same time, it is also a strong signal to Members and Members that we stop playing with people's fates. Look, because of the stubbornness of the coalition and the ministry that prepared this law, it happened to you people. People have clearly expressed their will to express their human sovereignty in the highest form of direct democracy, which is through a referendum to reject the law drafted by the Government and supported by the coalition. Look, this law actually closes archives. With all due respect to you, dear Minister, but I believe more in the part of the profession that opposes this law because they have some reason to oppose it, and they have also expressed it, they have also said it. You're defending your decision, you're defending the decision you've taken coalitionly to open these archives -- of course, you say -- we're telling them you've closed them. Very sophisticated, but the fact is, those people who walk through archives looking for things from half past history say you've closed their archives. I trust these people more than I trust you. With all due respect. The law that equates victims and criminals, and this anonymisation of some data from the archives, was by the government and the coalition for citizens dripping over the edge. That is why there was such an attack on the administrations of the units, where they expressed their very clear will to have a referendum on this law. I recall very well the discussions in the previous term and in this mandate when we discussed the so-called referendum day. This would mean that on one day of the year we would go to the polls and define all the referendums that would be ready by that date. And this solution about the referendum day or this solution was then echoed by some who are now in the coalition. Why were we then deciding on the referendum day or proposing it in the Slovenian Democratic Party? It's a cost reduction. At the same time, we retain the right of people to decide on this highest form of democracy, which is certainly a referendum decision. Now all of a sudden, we've come to a period where this rationality is being put somewhere in the corner and it's not being talked about anymore. We propose that this is an opportunity to hold a referendum with the European elections and save more than €2 million of money. We're talking about savings. You're talking about wanting to spend. Don't hold it. 2.2 million euros, as much as it would have been a savings if the referendum were at the same time as the European elections, is the start of the 200 million you are looking for due to the collapse of the real estate tax. Start here, you should start with yourself. The Constitutional Court informs us not to play with people and to be politically recalculated as to participation in the referendum. This is one of the indents that we can interpret in one way or another. But the fact is, they have made it very clear to us that we need to make it possible to participate as much as possible and to rationalise costs. And that's what we want. Therefore, this proposal to hold the referendum on 25 May at the same time as the European elections, and the only rational, realistic one, also follows efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u34	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor to prepare Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! For the introduction — if these archives were regulated according to the rule they have in the Vatican, they would probably have peace. But today is about if it wasn't for the government, then there wouldn't be a referendum and so on. I agree with my colleague Horvato, let's settle matters, because as discussed here in this national council, it is necessary to clean up everything that the customer has DNA, which ancestors and so on – if we are to interfere with this, then it is a disaster. You have to stop, and I'm done. Even in Austria's Koroška, after Haider's car accident, there's peace, they don't deal with that kind of nonsense anymore. We could have stopped, too. I'm very much in agreement with that. No one can say, this is an insult to citizens and citizens so that they cannot decide two or three things on the same day. Nobody's talking about it, at least not on this side, and I think it's the same. Voters and voters need to be trusted. You have really – I say, hat down – collected 46 thousand signatures. This was collected by an SDS party that has a covered field, its soldiers on the ground, hunted people on the street, and had to go to some of the unit's administrations. That is why I propose a solution. You've collected 46 thousand signatures. These 46,000 citizens and citizens should be brought to the referendum every 7.3 voters. Those three can be changed, you play the matter in suspense, one brings 8, one 7 voters – and it is your referendum. You're capable of doing this, so you don't have to be afraid on June 8th. It's a regular week. Enough time for propaganda to organize all these election and voter meetings. If you show up, then you've won the referendum. We will respect him. The Constitutional Court has brought the matter very clearly and there can be no problems. It is said that each of the 46,000 who signed it brings 7 or 8 voters and voters to the referendum. I support the date of June 8th, and I'll be happy if this saga ends once. We have other problems, other tasks, no more dealing with the Udba, no more with the mob, no more with the belogardists, no more with the DNA, no more with any. And we will begin, I hope, to solve problems that are very important for citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor and Mr Jožef Jerovšek should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. Hello, everybody! I'd focus more on the referendum, the dates and some good stuff. In fact, I read the Constitutional Court's decision. Yesterday we had much debate, or I did not — I listened to an interesting debate on the subject. I come from the 22nd point of the decision, the right to ensure that as many people as possible participate in the referendum. Here I would start with this, i.e. the proponent's hypothesis is based on the fact that the quorum would be reached, if I understood correctly, if the referendum were together with the elections. If I accepted this hypothesis as a fact, then I would be in great trouble to get ahead. Indeed, there are years when there are no elections, and in these years there can be some initiative for a referendum. I am very serious about this because this is a precedent, this is the first referendum after the change of the Constitution and you will never forget the first one; I can refer to it. That's my basic contract. So if I accept this now, then I don't know how, whether I'm in politics or not, I'm thinking about referendums that can't be linked to anything. In this case, then, those who propose this referendum are handicapped because the possibility of reaching a quorum is significantly smaller. From this address, I think it's a more appropriate date for June 8th. The other thing is costs. I agree with the fact that the referendum costs and I do not exactly advocate the doctrine that the payer is a candidate for the referendum. In the final stage, I can appear in this role alone. So I don't agree with that. But it seems to me that the one who loses at the referendum is responsible. This means that if I personally support this novel and if the will of the people at the referendum shows that they do not agree that the referendum will succeed, then, of course, I have an objective responsibility. These are two things that are important to me, with all due respect to Dr. Burner and the other lawyers. In fact, as a naturalist, I don't like law too much, because the same thing interprets a hundred people differently. It's the other way around in nature, and it would be good if it was the same in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u38	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Srečko Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The citizens' initiative, which has decided to collect signatures, has won an extraordinary victory by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The decision of the Constitutional Court, which annulled the decision which was unconstitutional and prepared by Mrs Potrate, showed that people should be respected. But this coalition doesn't respect that. The Constitutional Court said that the referendum should be signed in the National Assembly in such a way as to enable and ensure the maximum possible participation of people. And it must be May 25th, at the European elections. At that time, most people will come together; but the coalition, unfortunately also Mr. Minister, is afraid that this referendum will be successful and that the archives of the Udba will not be closed; it has prevented Slovenians from coming to know all the crime that has so fatally affected the state of the spirit in Slovenia. People do not realize this by what methods, by killings, kidnappings in the 1970s and 1980s, they exercised their illegal authority, for it was a state in the country. After the end of the unilateral system, the Udba officials moved to Slovenian banks, to state-owned enterprises and literally sank this country there. Billions of holes have been made in banks, and it is regrettable that this coalition, these parties in elections and elsewhere, are still being financed today. So scrupulously defend the fact that this people must not know that these people, who are still the most powerful in the country, the former officials of the Udba, can continue to govern the country, the citizens and you. It's sad, not all of us, that you keep this slave's attitude towards these officials to these unacceptable behaviours in politics today. For such conduct Cankar declared: You are boys and you will remain servants. I guess Cankar was right. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our moral and political duty to end this. At the outset, the Minister argued that it was not compatible with the European elections because it would be a humiliation for the referendum. Humiliation, he then explained, because the European elections and the European Union are despicable and could be a nuisance to the institution of the referendum. Now, in recent discussions, he was aware that this was the disastrous opinion of a minister and he abandoned it. Today, he read some of the phrases taken from the Constitutional Court decision but did not read the essential. People should be allowed to participate as much as possible. And foreigners, I think Slovenians abroad, overseas countries in ten days won't go to elections twice because it's a huge cost, and it's counter-constitutional again. It's unconstitutional again! But even if we could save 2.5 million money in this terrible situation where the country is, that money means nothing to you. Even if there were an additional cost of 100 million, it pays you, because political survival is on this money that these people who have moved to banks have stolen from banks and are financing it. That kind of behavior is a coalition. Because 2.5 million savings, people need to be told that there could be 12,000 students' scholarships for this, each would get 200 euros. This does not mean anything to the coalition because it is managed by people who have come out of the structure of the Judgment, and it also has great support in the media, in journalists who have grown up on the foothill of the Udba, unfortunately. Of course, all of this is paid in the background. There's also some legal study you're quoting. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that this is a view of the past. Without this cleared past, there is no future for Slovenia. This is the greatest mind, from the Squirrel and others, they speak, and one day you'll have to be aware of it. You're blocking the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. And it's Mr. Happy Meh's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I hope the phone doesn't ring now. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we had, in a way, two options. One possibility was that we would somehow proudly express our views, opinions, and then decide what will be done here in the National Assembly. And the second option is to repeat the same stories, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, and to open up questions that cannot be answered here, and to distort and tell each other our own. I find it very difficult because I was prepared to say my opinion that I am in favour of the referendum taking place in its own way. So unfortunately, you have chosen the path by which I will somehow try to say some things, comment, answer, say my opinion, and of course I have this right. A billion-dollar hole was also made by the Church, Zvon, ladies and gentlemen. Not just those who were, what you read to yourself, and you'll find out what this billion-dollar hole is. This is what Mr Jerovšek was talking about. Jerovšek talked about what holes are in banks and what we're talking about. And instead of telling me how we're going to prepare the present and the other [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] All right, Mr. Pojbich, here we go. I also think it's very depressed who the servant is. It's his personal position. Of course I've never been, I don't want to be. They weren't my parents either, because they fought on the side of the partisans, on the side that won in II. World War II; however, I will try somehow in a row. Costs can be reduced – simply withdraw the initiative. Of course, the referendum initiative with the signatures is absolutely legal, legal and today we will decide on this initiative as the majority will wish. Do we, as a position, apologize? And we know we have the power, we know we have the responsibility, we know we have the right. Stop arguing and let's make a decision. That's what I said at the beginning. Some people talk about us being sneaky. Excuse me. And that position has a narrower political goal. What is your goal in the opposition? Political? - Economics? Unpolitical? What's your goal? What goal are you pursuing? A political goal to connect the two stories between you and to take advantage of the European elections with a theme with which you also animated your electorate, which is, of course, perfectly legitimate. I believe that you are making use of the issue of archives for the promotion of the party and, of course, for the purpose of campaigning. But I have nothing against it, because you have used two stories skillfully. That is why I think it is necessary to say in some way also that people can make decisions and that they will make the right decision. Of course, what someone has said today may also be that the left parties have closed the archives. But, gentlemen, when the right-wing parties were in power, the archives were taken away. This seems far worse and much more questionable to me in the situation when we talk about throwing left or right parties away. Let me ask what was the purpose of Mr Leljak, who copied the party documents at the board meeting and handed them over to our colleague Maja Potrat. What was his purpose? What right did he have? Where did he get this? How did he do that? I expect him to copy my documents too, and I myself have been a member of this same party, and I am still proud to be representing and in some way protecting my country. Of course, the question of those who speak is where the left option comes from. From the people, from the members, from the program. You can also, as someone says, from what happened in the past. Shall I say where the right option comes from? It's from the collaboration. From the monuments of the natives. From symbols that are such as the Slovenians cannot be proud of. Is that the power supply? Is that what this is about in this national convention? It's not a real debate, it's not a good debate. But I am concerned, ladies and gentlemen, about the threats made by Mr Gorenak. What's it gonna be after June 8th? Actually, that's when he said the opposition had another option. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what worries. Remember what the great leader of the opposition party said: "We will use all resources to achieve our goal." All the resources, that's not right. That is why my call to all those who are here today, who are once again fighting the Slovenian public, is to try to calm our debates, to try to be dignified until the moment we press the button, take responsibility and vote as the conscience tells us, or, like the SMS or otherwise, the electorate and voters tell us whether we are right or not. That would be good in this national council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u42	In order, Mr Gorenak, you haven't spoken as a debater yet, you can't. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Meh, that you said that the right parties took the archives – perhaps some official took some paper, but that your statement was distasteful, rejected and political bottom; when you realized that your party – to which you said you were proud today – destroyed 90% of all the archives of the Udba. It is, as Mr Omerza says, that he knows matters, cultural genocide and you are proud of the cultural genocide of the Slovenian people. It's sad. And today you're defending and proud of it. And when you speak, you also object that what happened in Bells and elsewhere does not clear up, because the Church was the most abused, most controlled, and the question is, how much blame was there for what happened in Bell on the officers of the former Judgment and the abused priests who forced them and the Church to do so. It is still constantly involved in this structure of yours, it is involved in all the diversions in Slovenia, all the robberies, all the crimes. And you're proud of what you've just said about the cultural genocide that took place over the Slovenians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, then Vogrin, Ramšak and Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to respond to today's unrealistic statements made by Mr Gorenak in the National Assembly. In fact, I have never said that I am a lawyer; but if I have ever said that some of the proposals that I thought were illegal or were not based on positive legislation, I do not particularly agree because I am a lawyer; I think this does not mean and does not give anyone the right to stumble on my education before this Parliament. I've achieved this education and I'm proud of it. Secondly, before I touch on the ruling we are considering, I would also like to clarify my position here before the National Assembly today on behalf of the Dessus Group. I did not charge, I did not intend to settle with the SDS party in this contribution, but I did say some things that are real; therefore, the archives are more open than ever before, that the SDS has started collecting signatures and then filed together with more than 40,000 signatures of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia a request for a referendum. I respect that, but that's just one fact I've given you. Furthermore, the request was lodged by the SDS party and, of course, it is known who caused these costs to the state budget. And I think that in these difficult times it might be better to give these resources to those people who live below the poverty threshold. Respected and respected, the decision of the Constitutional Court to repeal the decision to call for a referendum on the amendment of the Archives Act must be respected. The Constitutional Court has assessed that the date of 4 May, due to the State holiday and school holidays, is a date which does not guarantee citizens and citizens that they can participate as much as possible in the referendum. The proposal by the coalition to hold the referendum on 8 June 2014 is, in my opinion, a date that gives citizens and citizens the opportunity to participate in as many archives as possible. If citizens and citizens take full advantage of their opportunity, of course, it is their business, their belief and their will. Since we are limited in time in DeSUS and I think that someone else should discuss in this national assembly, I will not comment on the individual views of the Constitutional Court. I would like to comment on the following; I myself have read an article or the opinion of a respected doctor of legal science, Mr Janez Pogorelec, in Legal Practice. And we will not talk about the content either, because the respected colleague Sam Bevk has already presented his opinion in detail and then also colleague Maša Kociper. However, with the opinion of Mr Pogorelec, as regards the need for the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative to be supplemented and the rules of the game for all referenda should be laid down, so that the same rules for all should apply, and I am very much in agreement with that. Let me finish. I will support the amendment of the coalition parties to the third section of the resolution on the call for a referendum, which sets the start of the referendums on 28 April 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u47	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! First, I would replicate to Mr Meh when he said that Mr Janša said he would use all the funds. He didn't say that. He said something completely different to use legal and political means, Mr Meh. Someone else, and this is the Resurrection, was using all the means; also the illegal, illegal and unconstitutional means; criminal assets, so on. Thank you, Mr Jerovšek, for this addition. And when you speak for the electorate, you might say that you should look at the final results of the elections, and we will quickly understand how much support there is for the electorate. Let me go back to what you said that you do not know what the Slovenian Democratic Party was pursuing, when it helped to collect signatures and made a request for a referendum. This is in the first place respect for human rights, respect for the Constitution, the rule of law and prevent the closing of the archives of the Judgment, as many as are left, because you have actually destroyed them all by all unlawful means. And now, if I am allowed, I will return to the Constitutional Court's decision, which stated that the legislator, even when issuing a sub-legislative regulation on the basis of the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, must act within the framework of legal options. It must, of course, pursue and respect two fundamental constitutional rights, starting points. This is an obligation of the State to respect human rights; the second relates to the requirement to establish rules and ensure their application in a manner that will allow for a fair referendum procedure. And fair procedure is a crucial condition for ensuring the credibility of the referendum outcome, as it ensures the confidence of voters and voters in the decisions taken by the constitutional majority at the referendum. And when some of you are referring to one of the legal experts, I will also refer to someone who I respect very much, because this is a young lawyer who is not burdened by the past, who is thinking with his head, who is also reading perhaps another legal practice, and this is a professor of European law, Dr. Matey Avbla. And Mr Avbelj wrote about the referendum and your decision to do everything you can to ensure that the quorum required to confirm the referendum decision is not implemented: In democracy, the government must strive to rule with arguments that at least most in society consider to be convincing. Only such decisions bear the nature of democratic legitimacy and not the use of power, the argument of power. Let the power of argument prevail. And that, unfortunately, the National Assembly, on the basis of the debate that we have witnessed both on the Committee and today, is in fact pursuing only one objective, a constitutionally unacceptable goal – to choose such a date that there will be the greatest possible possibility for the referendum to be invalidated. In fact, the rejection referendum enforces the quorum and this failure is followed by the National Assembly by this decision of yours when you object to citizens and citizens having the opportunity to make 25 decisions on the referendum as well, and insult citizens and citizens that they are not able to decide on two matters on a single day. In Switzerland, sometimes ten, including fifteen things per day, are decided on the only day of the year they consider to be a referendum, respected ladies and gentlemen. And I am sure that Slovenians and Slovenians are not lagging behind the Swiss, that we would not be able to decide for one day who we will send to the European Parliament; and whether we are "for" a decision at the referendum, or whether we are "against". Of course, Minister, you, too, use the argument of power in your debates, not the power of argument. I believe that we should actually follow the principle of economics, good governance, as the bonton says to voters. I certainly support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to hold the referendum on May 25th, and I believe that you will reject this amendment with your voting machine and we will have to face referendum 8. 6. However, I am also sure that citizens and citizens will also reward this decision in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u48	Thank you very much. It's mag. Branko Grims, then Dr. Ljubica Jelusic and Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. This is again, as usual, when the coalition speaks, especially the confirmation of Murphy's marriage; whatever they tell you in this coalition, they tell you about money. Why does a coalition or transition left each time it comes into power hurry to close the archives? Because the former Court, which was defined as a criminal organisation even by the Slovenian Constitutional Court — for those who may not know it — was not only a criminal organisation that killed people systematically because it did so, like all the secret services of all socialists, from Nazi Germany to Stalin Russia; but it was also an extremely well-organised economic-mafia organisation, for which the laws applicable to all other economic societies did not apply, but they had additional rights. So, of course, they could drive money abroad, so they could open companies abroad, so they decided on the fates of people at home and abroad, even when it came to their survival and existence, because they had this financial power. And from this financial power of the former Judgments, then all the tycoons were lined up and all these stories, which then, in the old fashion of the transition left, you rush to ascribe to the opposite side. This is why archives need to be closed so that they do not see where the money went, where the hole that we are all paying as taxpayers now, and where else in Slovenian banks. And then apples and pears get mixed up, when a private company was mentioned earlier, and you're doing public debt. The public debt is paid by taxpayers. And here are the huge, lions' share of this made by exactly two governments of the transitional left – Borut Pahorje and Alenka Bratušek, precisely the ones you placed in power. There's 20 billion euros. The former Yugoslavia fell apart because of 20 billion dollars. But €20 billion is more than $20 billion, and in Slovenia it is only 2 million people, only 10% of the population of the former Yugoslavia. That we'll be aware of how endlessly you've indebted all of us. And today you've staged the true orgy of arrogance of power, of waste and pure human stupidity. What are the arguments here: "Yes, because we have already launched 20 billion tax collectors in transition, and we will throw another 2 million out the window." This is how you argued today about why the referendum should not be at the same time as the elections, which would be the only rational thing that they practice everywhere in the democratic world. When it is said that there are no referendums in the United States, this is a pure lie; but the referendums are there on a state level, not a federal level, because there is a primary state there, for those who may know little about the structure of the United States. And let's say California, as a typical U.S. referendum state, almost always has a few referendums, because it's the only rational thing to do because they appreciate money there, you know, and that's why America is America. And that's what the Swiss do if they have an election with them to hold a referendum, one that's only on the agenda in that year. Because it's the only rational thing, and that's why Switzerland is. Slovenia is therefore confident because it is led by someone like you, because it seems to them to waste something most normal if they justify their authority. And then you come to the National Assembly and we listen to the following wits. This one was universal and I must congratulate Mrs Maša Kociper of Positive Slovenia. "We're wasting a lot of time in D.C. for the past year's themes." Bravo, Masha! And that's why you, gentlemen of the coalition, have proposed a law on closing archives, and that's why we're dealing with this frdamaman law now around 10 meetings. This is said to have been an excellent task of Masha Kociper if it was a Stalinistic self-criticism in the sense of true socialists. But if she wanted to point that finger at each other, it's pure human stupidity. Now choose for yourself. Then you found out the following – it is a quorum. Genius, really. You've found that correctly with you, because of this, of course, you've been manipulating since day one, so you don't want to listen to the Constitutional Court now. When I spoke here, in this national assembly, twice that it is the legislative duty of the legislator to choose a referendum in order to ensure the easiest possible participation of all citizens and citizens; and it is therefore only logical that it should be carried out at the same time as the elections, as well as the only rational, only economically, you have tried a little more to mock. Now that this has been written down by the Constitutional Court, you deny it, but you whistle at it; but you laugh no more, because you know that it is now true, and you can see who was right. It's a little awkward. But of course, because you don't know how to spend, you whistle at it. And now, more than that. Today you have allowed yourself several times to interpret the decision of the Constitutional Court as a green light to waste, since it has not given special weight to the costs. The decision merely said that people should be given the easiest possible opportunity at the referendum. The decision of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen, gives no green light to waste. It's just your malicious interpretation and denial of constitutional norms. The Constitutional Court simply assumes that the people who decide here are rational and responsible; you are obviously not. After your actions here you can look in the mirror. And then you said you weren't talking about Haider anymore today, and that's what was said. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen, but at least let me know what you're talking about. All Austria deals with Haider's legacy when it comes to money, with Hypo Banka. And now all Austria is paying for those divine debts that Haider's policy has left in Koroška in the form of the Hypo Bank. Just like all Slovenia will now pay through bank holes and everything else those holes left by the former Uda. That's why you want to close the archives so that you don't know who was carrying the money out, who were the heirs of that regime, and who was taking advantage of it. That's why you passed such a law. Finally, the question was raised as to what you are actually defending – on your side against us, if we were on this side and this side. Ladies and gentlemen, that side of you has a very embarrassing situation. I myself first sign that the Nazi regime was inhumanely criminal and that everything must be done for denaccination; and the same when it comes to fascists. But I say the same thing when it comes to communists, because they're all the same socialists, you know. It's a little embarrassing for young people today that probably none of the young people even know that Hitler led the National Socialist Workers' Party. And that she had anti - capitalist rhetoric, that she was madly applauded at the conventions by claims about ties, and that a gang of thieves, which is, by the way, incredibly similar to last year’s Red Star theater in the Colossae, was a rather awkward matter. Go to Wikipedia and take a look at this. And that's why it's a problem, because all totalitarianism and all crimes have to be measured with the same vat. Whoever was on either side can in no way be an excuse for any crime. Crime is a crime, crime is worth a conviction, and victims are worth all the credit. And that's all European norm, ladies and gentlemen. And the European standard in the form of a Resolution on European Consciousness also states that archives are open, especially for scientific research, without restrictions, so that these things are discussed and that history does not repeat that democracy is being strengthened.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u51	Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the thesis could also be accepted that there are transitional leftists, but there are also transitional right-wingers. And if we say now that the transition left has wasted and made 20 billion a big hole; forgive me, remember who led the government from 2004 to 2008. The transitional right because it was not before [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] And as much as Mr Grimes was then, I listened to you, yes, difficult, but it's just, say, my destiny here when I listen. [[…]] Listen. It is said that there was the greatest debt at the time, and many experts say who was in charge and how the economy was in debt. That even in the Church the Ascension made this debt — well, this was a pearl of pearls, as we would say when we were talking about the Udba, the former Udba, about all that had happened. I think it is necessary to condemn everyone on the principle level, everyone who has done something wrong. This, of course, is right to be done; but from this one must be done lawfully by law. Not that we're judging here, on the road, anywhere, and saying who's to blame. That's what the courts have to do. They are the ones who do so, as the Constitutional Court has decided that the referendum on 4 May was wrong and that a new date should be set. It seems to me that when we talk about this trust, whether we have confidence or do not have trust. You know, trust is a matter of how we behave. And if some people applaud us and tell us that this is our trust – perhaps. Most people know exactly what that trust is. And of course, in this confidence, it is a matter of course that when someone is flattened with patriotic monuments — of course, it is right to say to those who have been in any way dead and have no real memory that we do not have — but when someone is applauding the patriotic monuments, to those who have fought against the nation who have betrayed their own people, then it is no longer a simple question. That is why it seems to me, once again, to let go of the hard words, the accusations, leave them to the courts, let us not condemn them, and let us decide in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u53	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. A nice welcome to all of you, especially to the Minister with his co-workers! If we are in the decision-making process, as our colleague Meh says, I would have said in the introduction that I would support the decision that goes towards the appointment on 28 April as the date of the start of the election and on 8 June as the date of the referendum. I support these two dates because I think it is necessary to provide or make as much information as possible to electorate and electorate. It is true, as the Minister has said, that with the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives we have been engaged since 2009. There have also been considerable public representations and public debates regarding the latter. However, it is also true that very much misleading information in circulation was also available to the public in connection with the latest additions to ZVDAGA. I hope to say that there have been many such messages that have actually led voters to the fact that it is no longer clear what the law actually says, that is, whether it writes what colleagues and colleagues have said that helped to collect signatures and belong mainly to one political party, whether it is really written in the law, as stated by the Government, and which has also been adopted by the majority of the votes of Members and Members in this national assembly. In short, when it comes to such a situation that it is no longer clear how well people are really informed about the true content of the law, I think it is necessary to take some time and to ensure this good information again. It is important to ensure that people are thoroughly familiar with the content of the law. I use the term "fair" because it was also used by the Constitutional Court in its decision and because this point 18 of the Constitutional Court's decision was previously quoted by colleague Ramšak. I think the 18th point of this decision is very important. In fact, the Constitutional Court advocates – and forgive me for repeating what I am defending – the need for a fair trial as a decisive condition for ensuring the credibility of the referendum outcome, since it ensures the confidence of the electorate and the electorate in the decision taken by the constitutional majority at the referendum. It is said that the Constitutional Court is talking about providing such tasks or procedures to arouse a sense of fairness in the electorate and electorate. I also think that it is necessary to be absolutely fair in choosing a date. Here I ask, were colleagues and colleagues really honest in their intentions when they proposed May 25th as the date of the referendum? Honest in the sense that they are really only pursuing the issue of the prudence and cost-effectiveness of spending public resources, or that they actually have some other purpose, which is unfair; namely, that the referendum should be carried out together with some other procedure, an important public procedure, which is elections to the European Parliament. So, if I doubt the fairness of the intentions of the applicants, it is likely that there is anyone else in this country who doubts this honesty. And if we have doubts about fairness and the fairness of the proceedings is referred to by the Constitutional Court, then it is necessary to choose a date on which there will be no doubt about fairness when it comes to choice or when it comes to determining the procedure. Therefore, I think that any other date except May 25th is better for the implementation of this referendum, if, of course, we wish to ensure a fair procedure in accordance with the expectations of the Constitutional Court. I also think that it is necessary to say more clearly on the proposaler's side today, with whom you are actually controversyising when you say that someone claims that citizens are not able to decide the referendum issue and the European elections together, on the same day. So, who do you actually tell about the question of ability? I have no doubt that people are capable of being adequately defined; however, I am concerned that the ability of people with misleading campaigns and manipulations to be aware of decisions that are no longer based on fair procedures is being tried. And try to manipulate their views by unfairly talking about the last amendment of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. My view is that it is so open to our archives that this is more or less uncomparable to Europe. We have already had international comparisons in Europe when adopting the law, and we have found - and some of the opposition colleagues have found this - that the level of openness of Slovenian archives is only comparable to that of Czech archives and both are considered to be the most open in Europe. If we followed what Comrade Ribič said in his presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, when he regretted that the young parties failed to regulate the accessibility of the Udba material in a European comparable way, today those who wish to dig through these archives would, of course, have significantly more problems because European comparatively means having such archives substantially closed than in Slovenia. I support the fact that we have archives open in the way they are; however, I think it would be good to consider not only openness for everyone and for everyone, but also what for those whose data is sought through archives, this openness essentially means. I must say that we and myself are already being personally addressed by citizens, with proposals and demands that, in cases where different researchers are appearing through the archives, I should also say quasi-experts, not researchers with a research license, but all possible data stakeholders in the archives, that their requirements for certain documents should also be informed of the properties of those who, of course, have already died mentioned in those documents. The question is, Why does anyone really need the information written in the archives today? Or to publish them in books for commercial purposes, or really to clear up a research question about our past history, or to deal with individuals. So when it comes to the use of archives, to deal with individuals, then it is likely that those citizens who warn that people who are asked about archives should also listen. As it is said, I would really like to hear the answer to my question, with whom do you actually argue that someone claims that our citizens would not be able to decide on such important materials as ZVADA and elections to the European Parliament at one time. However, I argue that it would be imperative to devote more time to a much higher level of information because of the great deception they have been given in the past weeks and months. In particular, I think it is necessary to inform or inform citizens again of what is essentially written in the amended 90th Article of the Constitution, which states that the only candidates for referendums, legislative referendums are voters and electorates. Today, it has been heard several times from the mouth of some colleagues and colleagues who are Members, for example, of whether there is anyone else or anyone else who can, except the SDS, collect 46 thousand signatures. And this putting in the first person, when we have collected these signatures, is actually a message that there has been a gathering of these signatures to unconstitutional conduct, that is to say the conduct that speaks of not only the electorate and the electorate being those who demanded this referendum, but that they were also Members and Members who have the right and authority to decide on the laws of the National Assembly. Once again, I ask myself about ensuring that the procedure is fair if, indirectly, the candidates for the referendum come back or propose themselves to be Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik is next, followed by Mr Pojbič and then by Cuz and Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u55	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. I think it's been so said today that all I have to do is answer a few questions. First thought – what goals we pursue. I think that the ultimate goal is to make the whole foundation, that people can someday or today and tomorrow realize all the truth that the former totalitarian regime worked on; and how today's society works and why we can't shake some of the pinnacles of the past. The other thing about this goal is what my personal goal is as a policy. My personal goal is to make all the knowledge I have gained during my career many years abroad to implement it here in the National Assembly through political means. This is by allowing me to vote or to implement as a policy the laws known to Austria, Germany, Switzerland and Scandinavian countries where the greatest prosperity is where people with the best abilities can get the best positions to the most difficult positions. And that is the essence of the operation of capitalism, which all these countries, which have had capitalism for the past 200 years, have known. What concerns what political means and what legal remedies are, that's what they are. The political means are that I can vote that I have been elected in elections, that people have given me this mandate, more than 3,000 votes and that I can implement it. All these words, which I have somehow stressed in the electoral campaign, that I can implement them as a Member. What a legal remedy we can talk about today. We were talking about the caselaw of the Constitutional Court, which somehow rejected the date proposed by the coalition — and this is a legal remedy. What kind of funds were being pursued by those parties or by that party who ruled in this former country for 45 years, and I can read it to you. In order to achieve the goal that this country, i.e. the former totalitarian state, will continue to operate for many years, these objectives were: 10 choke pistols, 100 sets of explosive devices with 500 kilograms of explosives, sniper rifles, means of quiet liquidation, triggers-mechanisms embedded in various utility items, means of stunning, blinding, a whole range of poisons for human poisoning, listening devices and so on. That's what this organization we're talking about is working with. And these are documents from the '70s, '80s and '90s. In these actions conducted in Slovenia, abroad, through various cultural societies, we can find authentic documents in the archives that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia said in its 2003 case-law: These documents from the archives that are open are authentic documents and journalists can freely present them in all their records and everything else. Therefore, the lawsuit of a former SDV member against the Mag Week was rejected, of course, and they gave it to the journalist who discussed it. The following issue, for example, is an important document from 1987 when one of the journalists of the Youth talks about Branko Mamuli, who has somehow predicted some aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in one of his speeches. And so the Prosecutor's Office in Slovenia, Public Prosecutor Paula Car, who later led a whole series of political processes, immediately informed the Central Committees, who was responsible for all these operations of the former totalitarian regime; and in this central committee, they will be against one journalist who somehow announced some aggression of the Yugoslav People's Army that a whole series of proceedings must be initiated. In the meantime, he informed Mr Popit, Mr Milan Kučan, Mr Potrč, Mr Marinc and so on. So these are the people who are walking in Ljubljana today, preparing new elections, and these are the Democrats. Another kind of thing I've talked about many times that communist systems haven't experienced their Nuremberg, nor are they fascist. In Nuremberg, among other things, not only have they accused a whole range of military commanders, accused a number of political leaders, and for the first time in their lives, for the first time in legal history that this right was so unfair, it was not the law of civilized nations, it was an injustice. And on the basis of such injustice, as Mr Bavcon wrote in Slovenia, who is walking again in Ljubljana, such journalists have initiated and conducted a series of procedures and informed the Central Committees of the Union of Communists of Slovenia and those who today consider themselves Democrats. This is how the predecessor of the current SD party led its democratic procedures. These are their democratic means. I spoke about my democratic means as a Member or as a member of the SDS party earlier. So these were the "politics" that dealt with it. The next issue was "culturecids" against Slovenian culturers. Here we have an interesting document, 13 udbovniks in Jambor's action, aimed at Mr Boris Pahor, the famous writer. Mr Milan Kučan and the same gentlemen I have just mentioned have also been informed. That's how it went. So it's interesting, so it's important that people learn how society works today, why these people don't belong in political space, why they should be removed long ago, and why these people have led crimes against humanity that the whole world is persecuting. In Slovenia alone, we were, unfortunately, not allowed to do so until today. It was said to leave the past and deal with the present. Ladies and gentlemen, you repeat the same patterns. We know high taxes, heavy debt, high wages, we've seen all this before. That is why we are dealing with the past to see why you are always repeating all these patterns and why the market economy is not working in Slovenia. That's why the Constitutional Court cancelled your date. I believe that as public servants we must act extremely rationally, so the date of 25 May is the most optimal day. Let me tell you something else. I was in Germany a few years ago when there were 12 referendums on election day. Colleagues today explained about Switzerland and a consultation referendum will be held in Bulgaria on 25 May, I think, on electoral legislation. So much for me, gentlemen, some of my arguments. Now you can discuss your manners further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. It's Mr. Pojbich's turn. Then it's Chuš and Jeraj Alenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Of course, I will only support this decision if the referendum is held on 25 May, on the day of the European elections, because I think it is far more rational. And all the arguments by the coalition and the government that oppose this date do not hold any real judgment. It is clear to all of us that within a few days we will run two elections, that this is again a huge burden for our country and taxpayers. In the state in which our country is, I am sure that the government and the coalition should act rationally. It is in this direction that we propose to the Slovenian Democratic Party the implementation of this referendum on the day of the European elections. And now I ask you to listen carefully again. Who is the one who caused this referendum? Who's that? Who proposed marriage to the National Assembly? The law, which will be decided by referendum, was introduced into the National Assembly by the government of Alenka Bratušek. He was supported by the coalition, DeSUS, SD, the National List and Jankovic's list. And these parties are unconditionally responsible for the fact that taxpayers will have to pay for the non-rational implementation of the referendum. If this government, when it had had a time to negotiate in the National Assembly on whether this law was acceptable to the majority of Members and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, if the government were at that time able to step back and listen to the opposition's proposals to withdraw some of the articles in this law, this law would not be in the referendum. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have made it very clear that if these articles do not withdraw from this law, we will, of course, join the referendum. And the government didn't listen to it, they laughed, the coalition made fun of us, they said, but you had no choice, so they answered us and laughed, if you never collected signatures for the referendum and so on. Finally, the Slovenian Democratic Party managed to collect almost 47,000 signatures certified in administrative units. And now this government and the coalition that we have asked for have tried to warn her not to go forward with this law, trying to tackle the financial problem of the implementation of this referendum by the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's extreme misbehaviour and, I'll say, even rude behavior. Disgusting behavior. Therefore, I am convinced that the responsibility for the costs incurred must be borne exclusively by the government of Alenka Bratušek and all the coalition parties that I have counted so far. All the coalition parties I counted. They have a personal responsibility for this situation to decide at the referendum on this issue and on this law. And if the referendum were held on the day of the European elections, it is said on May 25th, the costs of the referendum would be at least 2 million 200 lower than they will be now. And for 2 million 200 – it has already been said today – we could distribute 5,000 750 pensions worth 400 euros in Slovenia when we have a lot of pensioners in our country who have 300, 400 euros; my mother also has 400 euros in pensions. And we could add another 100 euros to that supplement that these pensioners are getting, to those pensioners who are doing very badly in this country, and we could give 22,000 pensioners 100 euros in addition instead of spending unnecessary tax money here and acting so irrationally. Where's Dessus? They all escaped, not one in the National Assembly. How can they say that they advocate the interests of pensioners? How? On the other hand, they throw 2 million 200 through the window, just because and in principle to prevent the success of the referendum, that people in this referendum would reject such an unfair, unfair and extremely offensive law as this law, which the government has proposed for admission and which we will decide at the referendum. So, once again – the costs must, the responsibility for costs and irrational behaviour must be borne by the government of Alenka Bratušek and all coalition parties. And I am sure that Slovenians and Slovenians know very well what this means, this nagging of the government and the coalition to the opposition. And that is not the biggest problem for the opposition. The biggest problem is that it further burdens Slovenian taxpayers with the adoption of irrational solutions and the cost of these 2 million 200.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. It's Mr. Chush's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u59	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greeting also to all colleagues and representatives of the government! The Klofuta, which the Government of Alenka Bratušek has adopted the Constitutional Court, can teach us that the government of Alenka Bratušek not only makes harmful or bad decisions for the population, but also makes unconstitutional, incomprehensible moves. I am sure and I hope that this government will be responsible for this in the near future. As a young individual in these, we can say, difficult times when we are dealing with the economic situation, unemployment, youth issues, I am not clear, I cannot understand at all, and I am very disappointed that the Government is even hoping to deal with the law, such as the law on the protection of documentary and archival materials. In my opinion, amending this law as well as engaging in government and policy with this law is not an anti-crisis measure unless someone lives on another planet. But if this is all Alenka Bratušek can do in the fight against the crisis, of course I suggest that she pack the suitcases as soon as possible and give the opportunity to the better, more capable. Let us all who debate today focus on the future, let us condemn all measures or activities such as human rights violations in the former totalitarian system. Let's decide that the archives will be open. Let us condemn those who have harmed the Slovenian people in the past to be held accountable for their activities. Let's go to the May 25th referendum together with the European elections, save more than the needy 2 million euros in tax money; not ours, although it seems to me that some people own it more than once. But since you're in debt at a rate of 1 million euros an hour, you probably don't care much about those 2 million. This meeting has already been three hours; we have already been looking forward to €3 million today. I think it's unacceptable, immoral. Dear Government, you should be ashamed that we have to deal with this at all times. The burning of the archives was a cultural genocide. We can all agree on that. What you're doing here now is you want to have a referendum on the archives on June 8th and spend extra money on all of us, taxpayers and taxpayers, is an economic genocide.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Chus. Mrs Eva Irgle on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry there's no culture minister in the hall right now. Earlier, Mr Minister quoted a number of lawyers as he had discussed them, quoted the Constitutional Court's decision and explained why it was not possible to carry out the European elections, as members of the coalition say. And now let me quote the Constitutional Court's ruling that it will be black and white. The decision of the Constitutional Court states, quote: "The claim that the simultaneous exercise of the referendum and the election endangers the right to vote is based on the assumption that voters are not able to vote responsiblely in elections and referendum on the same day. This assumption is legally insufferable from the point of view of the provisions of Articles 3, 44 and 90 of the Constitution." These were the arguments of the coalition MPs. "The referendum and elections can be carried out technically so that there are no obstacles to voter participation in one and the other forms of democratic expression of will. The legal arguments cited by the National Assembly in support of its decision are therefore unfounded. At the same time, the opportunities of the referendum and the elections are a matter of political assessment." It's true, it's a matter of political assessment. And the fact is that you are acting or not acting in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, not in accordance with the prudence of public consumption. But you are acting explicitly and always in accordance with, of course, with political judgement and political assessment, despite what the Constitutional Court tells you. Given that Mrs Ljubica Jelusic had previously returned to history on the issue of archival material, and that Mr Meh had spoken about everything except the agenda item, let me also go back a little bit to the history of archival material, how it all happened; precisely because people who will decide at the referendum – I hope that on 25 May together with the European elections – knew why this issue was so important and why we decided to start collecting signatures. Not because you want to tease someone, but because the issue of openness or the closure of archival material is of paramount importance. In 2006, the government of Janez Janša opened the archive material before May 17, 1990. This means that it protected only the personal data of the victims, not the personal data of the perpetrators, which enforces the current amendment of the law. And that's unacceptable to us and it's embarrassing. Equalization of perpetrators and victims means re-interference in the integrity and dignity of the victims. Instead of protecting them, we take away their right to dignity again. Then, in 2011, something unheard of happened, which should never have happened. What happened? The former Director of the Sove Mr Selan unlawfully denied access to the archival material to the publicist and researcher Mr Omerza, who is also second-signed under the referendum initiative. Undoubtedly, it is a person who deals with archives daily, who goes through the archives daily, and knows exactly what it means to have access to the archive material that he needs in order to study a subject and to be able to write a book about it. But it happened to him, even though it was legal for him. Mr. Omerza then wanted to take a look at the years 1973 and 1984; the most interesting problem was, how interesting, he had microfilms from 1979 and 1980. I have explained many times that these are the years when the former president of the country, and now also the candidate for UN President, Dr Danilo Türk, became President of the Commission for Minority and Emigration Issues. And what's interesting is that in that period, there was just a bombing on Velivec. In the meantime, another important decision has taken to address the issue of the openness and closure of the archive material and is also linked to Mr Igor Omerzo's publicist. Mr Igor Omerza wanted to look at the material on behalf of Mr Edward Kocbek. But what happened? He was prevented from accessing this material. They prevented him from accessing this material because he wanted to explore how Uda supervised it and what she was doing with such a great intellectual as Kocbek. Let me say that as many as forty-four people exercised control of Kocbek by the Udba, that is, the Udba, under the country that former Ambassador Meh said was proud of. Forty-six men were in control of Kocbek. But since these things should not have come to the public at the time, because this incredibly beautiful image of the party, which, of course, now still has vital parts in the National Assembly and in short, in all areas in the country, this access had to be prevented. Then what happened? Pahor's government has passed a law that has made it difficult to access archival materials, and we have therefore proposed a referendum in the Slovenian Democratic Party, for the first time, on archival material. Not because you'd like to tease, but because it was important because the Borut Pahor government closed down and made it difficult to access the archive material. I explained earlier what the previous sequences were like for some researchers who wanted to do their work professionally and professionally, but they couldn't because they shouldn't. Then the coalition, or then the party of the Social Democrats to the Constitutional Court, brought the archival works law into judgment. The Constitutional Court has stated that the right to information and thus the right to know objective and comprehensive historical truths over the right to privacy of those who have committed criminal acts. And that's why it allowed the referendum to take place on this issue. You know the story. 70.88% of people opposed the closure of archives. Unfortunately, today we see that the government, just after introducing the amendment of the Law to the National Assembly, which we have been talking about for several months now, has caused it to first undermine the will of the people, and now, in these procedures, when we have to make a decision at the referendum because of this government and this decision, it is still plaguing, stalling and so on. Let me get this straight. The director of the current archive of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Bojan Cvelfar, also appears in this story of archival material. Mr Bojan Cvelfar was campaigning to close the archives of the Udba when we were talking about the first referendum on archives, about archiving. He was on the side of those who decided that the archives of the Judgment should be closed. Now let us believe him, as well as citizens and citizens, that he wants more open archives. This is disputed with every purely basic farmer's intelligence and logic. How can we trust him now and trust him when he totally diametrically reverses his position. Given that there was absolutely no need to amend the 2006 Archive Material Act, I can state with full responsibility that the introduction of the amendment of the Law into this National Assembly — now that there was no need — is not professional but purely political. Why did this happen? In particular, because some researchers have begun to detect the killings caused by the Utva or the State Security Service during this period, the secret political police are called. And the secret political police was not some humanitarian organization, as I would like to show you, say, Mr Meh from behind, but it was a criminal organisation. Mrs. Potrata, that's a fact. [[advertising from the hall]] This was also said by the Constitutional Court that the State Security Service was a criminal organisation. And I'm not saying everything that this criminal organization has done and applied. But something is true, and the key is that it also interfered with the inviolability of human life. And what no one should do, and each one of us should condemn it strictly, but unfortunately it is not condemned. Even on the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, whenever we talk about these issues, which are a basic civilisation standard, then the coalition members do not want to talk about it, they say they are irrelevant themes. Of course, they're irrelevant themes because they're difficult for you. They're tough, but they come in the daytime. They say that at the end of actions from the past they have long shadows, long shadows; but at some point they come up with a plan, and perhaps now is the time for some things to be explored in this case. I speak solely of the actions committed by the former secret political police. If we make a quick comparison with the German secret political police, says Stasi, we can see that, for example, about 5% of this material was destroyed during the period of destruction of the archive material of this German secret police. But as soon as people found out that this archival material was being destroyed, they came before the buildings where it was being built, and they prevented — there were more than 100,000 of them — and they prevented this destruction from continuing. What happened to us? 80% of this archive material has been destroyed, and we must not even talk about it today, as it shows, even though when we talk about these discussions, it is much more embarrassing when we want to discuss it. Something else happened. In Germany, people were responsible for this and received prison sentences. Nothing happened with us. True, the Minister of Culture has filed a complaint against an unknown perpetrator. Why didn't he press charges against Mr Ergen, for example, although it is clear that Mr Erzen ordered the mass destruction of the archive material. He didn't do it. And I wonder if we will ever come to people for such a cultural genocide as Mr Omerza says will really be responsible. Approximately 20% of the archive material remains and, of course, we must do everything we can to protect it as a little girl of our own eye. Archival material is the essence of each nation or is the additional foundation of each nation. And it's high time people took responsibility for the things they've done. And one more thing. It's constantly manipulated by the fact that the novel of the archiving law opens archives. It just doesn't hold. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided not to support this amendment of the law mainly because of two substantive provisions. For the first time because of what I have already said, the novelty of the law equates the perpetrators and victims, which is unacceptable and is also shameful for the entire National Assembly. And secondly, because of the anonymization procedures. What anonymisation procedures mean best said the second under the referendum initiative and the person who regularly deals with archival materials – Mr Omerza. And also some others, that I am not talking about Dr. Vladimir Žumr, who is one of the greatest experts in archival material in our country; and he said that this is an anonymization of the perfidial closure of the archive material. Technical disable access to archive material. That's anonymization. What does that mean? Mr Omerza made a calculation if she steps in when the amendment of the law comes into force, of course if she is confirmed at the referendum, then after this amendment of the law, it will take about 120 years to anonymise the entire archive material we have at our disposal. 120 years. And if this isn't a denial of access to archive material, then I don't know what it is to prevent access to archive material. It would take 120 years to anonymize these things. Let me also repeat that there are only two archivists in the archive, an archivist. It's an extremely difficult job, an extremely difficult job, a garage job. This is, of course, the transfer of all those who have proposed the amendment of the law, if you think that these two archivists will be able to anonymize such things in due course. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia contains a file under number 2534, which has 65,000 pages. And these 65,000 pages can't be anonymized in due course. And that's why we're saying it's about denying access to archive material. Everything else is a misdirection on your part, and it is high time for the coalition to act as a responsible policy as well; as responsible politicians, like those who know their role and role in politics and in the National Assembly; both on the side of the executive branch of power and on the side of the legislative branch of power. Once again, I will reiterate that we have already tabled an amendment to the National Assembly and once again propose that the referendum be set on 25 May – and not on 8 June, as proposed by the coalition. If I am not mistaken, even in the Civil Gazette they are very skeptical until this date, because I see Mr Branisl, who is looking at me, I remember that on June 8th they are not at their best, but that you are even leaning towards perhaps a really good thing to hold a referendum along with the elections to the European Parliament on May 25th. I support this because then I understand that you are acting rationally, economically and prudently towards public funds. And, of course, electoral participation would undoubtedly be higher. I don't understand what you're so afraid of in the coalition that you're constantly opposed to the referendum on May 25th. You're looking for holes everywhere, you're guessing, in short, you're even abusing procedures, you're doing everything you can to take away the entire word from the Members. You even tell them that they are not members of the National Assembly, you take away their status, so that someone else can become a candidate, even though they have not formally submitted it properly to the National Assembly, but this does not play a role. That doesn't play a role. It's important that we win and we're winners. But with such a policy, respected coalition MPs and MPs, there are no winners, there are no winners. This is because you are not doing this work with responsibility and, above all, according to the prudence of the use of public funds. If the referendum is held together with the European elections, it will cost EUR 1.3 million if it is carried out on its own day, as you proposed in the coalition, even though the Constitutional Court has told you that everything in this direction must be done, that the costs of the referendum are as low as possible and that participation in the referendum is as high as possible, you acted the other way – you decided 8 June as a single day. In short, I propose once again that, even in the National Gazette, they doubt 8 June, but think again. I'm putting this on your heart because it would be really good and it would be finally the most economical, but also fair, if you want. The Constitutional Court also said that you should reconsider and decide in accordance with everything I have said and actually vote to hold the referendum together with the European elections on 25 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u62	Have you discussed it yet? Here you go, Mrs. Potter, there's no problem. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u63	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mrs. Eva Irgle is a real expert on archives. The characteristic of the archive's expertise is accuracy. First line. The Constitutional Court was not only given the role of Social Democracy, but – Mrs Eva Irgl – 44 signatories, the entire coalition, with two unrelated Members. 44. So much for that. If you're starting to compare yourself, Stasi has a special marriage. Only licensed researchers have access to these archives. I will not discuss what is going on with some in Slovenia. No need for marriage, no need for a new marriage. For the amendment of the law, the government of John John Janša, who dealt with things that could not be accomplished by law, found this to be necessary. By means of a submarital act, she regulated things that were legal matter. Great man, the story of Velivec is fully known and I think the SDS should blush on this story, depending on how they falsified or folded the material – documentary, supposed. What is involved in this constant repetition that the SDV is not a humanitarian organisation I would now, Mrs Irgle, really ask you to prove which of the Members and Members of the Social Democrats has ever declared that the SDV is a humanitarian organisation. [[…]] When someone said that, prove it, please prove it! Because you are also quoting what you are saying about the SDV, about the crime of SDV, from the Supreme Court ruling, which is connected to a purely different procedure. It was a complaint made by two individuals whose files were made public and the case was directed at the editor who did so. And then the Supreme Court acquitted the editor of responsibility for having written down in its decision that, in addition to what the SDV was doing, she also manipulated, falsified and all that. In a specific procedure, the Supreme Court ruled on this and added "the same". You just forgot. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u64	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u65	You've just forgotten about that "too," but that doesn't mean that if we quote, it's never meant that we're saying that the SDV was a humanitarian organization. Please, I'm asking you to prove it, which one of us said it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. Next up is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Before that, we heard about what is right and what is unfair. I would like to ask my colleague Jelusicheva to explain to me what is unfair about the fact that elections to the European Parliament and the referendum would be simultaneous on 25 May. We have already had this case, the presidential elections and the referendum on the Triglav Insurance Company. To attribute unfair purposes to us because we would do what we have talked about many times — a referendum day, that is to say, to decide on the same day on a number of matters, because it is only reasonable and appropriate, that we are dishonest and that our purposes are dishonest. See what you are doing, what excuses you are looking for, to find another date, and thus to make it impossible or to arrange for as little participation as possible; instead of doing exactly the opposite as the Constitutional Court instructs you to do. Finally, honesty is also demonstrated by the Minister's statements, which raises the journalist's question that the SDS party as a proponent would have significantly more opportunities to achieve the desired result, about 330,000 votes required under the new legislation. If we went to the referendum just for that, of course, the probability of getting this result would be significantly lower, as the voter response would also be less rapid. So, the question to the Minister is, "Is it not your desire that the referendum be specifically linked to this?" And Minister Grills replied, "Maybe so."So who has fair or unfair purposes in this matter? Ask the minister! That's why you're making up I don't know what dates so I don't get to the quorum. This says that this is your purpose and your goal. But not to be philosophical about whether people can decide two things, and I don't know what else, to look for different excuses that no one believes; I don't think even you. If the minister says the law is very good, it would be logical to make sure that the referendum is the day the most people come and support this good marriage of yours. Doesn't that make sense? Give the date when as many people as possible will come, because you will convince them they will not fall for our propaganda, or, as the Minister has said, they will not fall for such ideological maneuvers and he will convince them that marriage is good. Are we not all interested in finding out at the referendum whether the law is good or not that people decide? Is it not in your interest to have such a good marriage and to support such a good marriage? You'd expect to pick a date when people will be screaming at voters and voting for your super-archive law. For me, it's logic. That means the best date of May 25th, your success is assured because you have such a good archive law. And it will be well confirmed and the Minister will be satisfied with everything he wanted by bringing the amendment of the law to Parliament. In fact, you know that your arguments have been severed and that people have increasingly less and less headwashed, even though you wash them regularly through 90% of the regime's media every day. But also those who are not very interested in politics are wondering at this point why, at 80% of the country's debt, the Ministry of Culture and this government feels that it needs to change the archives law. People have thousands of other problems, and they understand that this is a problem for someone else; and that this is why they have come into the process or into Parliament. And it's not enough to make fun of people, now you're making fun of these maneuvers when you're looking for a day when as few people as possible will come to vote. You are also mocking the Constitutional Court, which said to you: "The disputed determination of the date of the vote, when other options are available to the National Assembly, threatens the integrity of the referendum procedure and thus undermines the legitimacy of the referendum decision." This honesty was discussed by the Constitutional Court, Mrs Jelusičeva. About this honesty when you had other dates available. Once again you have another date available and you are playing for the second time – you are ahead of the electorate, and now you have a proposal from the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court tells you: "The determination of the date of the vote in the referendum in the light of the above justifies the conclusion that it is no longer just a matter of determining the way in which the law is exercised, but in the circumstances of this case it is an intervention in the right to vote in a referendum protected at the level of human rights by the right to participate in the management of public affairs." Another thing written very nicely to you by the Constitutional Court on the date of the date: "It is even less possible for the legislator to act in the opposite direction when determining the date of the vote, which requires respect for the effective exercise of the right to vote in the referendum as a right of positive status, the condition of the constitutional quorum for rejecting the law at the referendum and the requirement of a fair referendum on each individual legislative referendum." This is exactly the opposite of what requires respect for the effective exercise of justice. So much for honesty. And this honesty was discussed by the Constitutional Court, Mrs Jelusičeva. Of course, I will support our proposal that the referendum is at the same time as the European elections on 25 May.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jeraeva. Replica, Dr. Jelusichov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Well, I still doubt the fairness of your intentions when you propose 25 May as a date for the implementation of this referendum, because, apart from the indications of the usefulness and economic effectiveness of the two electoral tasks on the same day, you do not specify any other substantive reason. When the Constitutional Court said in connection with the 4th of May as the date of the referendum that other dates were available, it should be said that, even when it comes to the choice of 25 May, other dates still exist, which will continue to be available in the context of the legally permitted selection of dates for the implementation of this referendum. And secondly, don't invite us or me who voted for this marriage. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u70	Dr. Jelusichova, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u71	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. My colleague Jeraj invited me, myself, of course, with this also coalition and my client, to invite people to a referendum for our good marriage to confirm it. I would like to explain that Article 90 of the Constitution does not speak today of the need for legislative referendums to work as confirmatory referendums, but I would like to say that it is now written in this Article of the Constitution that legislative referendums should be held as rejection referendums. To me, who voted in favour of the law, there is no need to call on people to reject it at the referendum. Of course, you who have been in a minority when we voted in the National Assembly must now call people to a rejection referendum and you must also reach an appropriate quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u72	No matter what you think, it was not a replica, because the replica did not explain, not an answer to a colleague; but it was an explanation of where you were misunderstood. I'm sure my colleague Bevk will be able to tell you this as chairman of the Commission. It's Mr. Zlone Blackach's turn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! The Constitutional Court annulled or repealed the ruling adopted by the ruling coalition. In the context of the reasons for repealing this Decision, this decision, which, if the coalition had followed this argument, would have resulted in this referendum being called for on 25 May. The question that we could decide in 10 minutes if we had any rational, economical, responsible authority, we are discussing for the second time today. In addition, the Constitutional Court discussed this; it appears that it will have to discuss this once again. In short, it would be appropriate for at least the three fundamental proposals on which the Constitutional Court has justified the repeal of this unconstitutional decision to be submitted to the public again. One of these key points is that the determination of the date of the vote on the basis of the legal provision in itself constitutes an arrangement for the exercise of that right. And the Constitutional Court says that even when issuing a sub-legislative regulation on the basis of the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, the legislator must act within the framework of legal options. Did the legislator act when he decreed, that is, you, the authority, whether you acted reasonably when you decided on May 4; or did you act now when you set June 8th? Of course, you are not acting rationally; for several reasons, they do not need to be specifically argued; I think that the average citizen is clear and visible. If we do not limit ourselves only to the costs that you needlessly cause to this people, it is also unreasonable that your conduct is unreasonable because you want to prevent people, at all costs, of the possibility that a matter which, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, is decided at a subsequent confirmation referendum may be clarified and decided to the greatest extent possible. Your conduct was like that when you decided on May 4th, and your conduct is like this if you set the date 14 days after the European elections – June 8th. Secondly, the Constitutional Court says that, when it comes to the exercise of the right to vote in a referendum, this means that not only the legal regime must be such as to enable the exercise of the right referred to in Article 90, paragraph 3, to be as effective as possible in relation to Article 44 of the Constitution; this requirement must also be followed by the implementation of the referendum procedure. When determining the date of the vote at the referendum, the National Assembly must therefore ensure that this right is respected in accordance with this starting point. This means that the date must be set by allowing as many electoral beneficiaries as possible to participate in the referendum vote and to make their will known whether or not to enact the law in the National Assembly. Do you follow this provision or this direction of the Constitutional Court by setting 14 days after an election? No, no, no. You're doing the opposite. For the greatest opportunity to exercise this right will be given on the day when people will participate in elections to the European Parliament. And then they will be free to express their will, if they wish, to confirm or reject this law. For in 2007, as already mentioned, when another authority, rational and reasonable decision was taken, the referendum on the Triglav Insurance Company on the same day as the presidential elections was followed by that provision. And even then, not all people took part in the referendum vote, as not all the people who took part in the elections decided for one or the other president. But the widest option was given. If the then government, the first Janša government, acted as you do now, unreasonablely and unconscionably, it would also set two days at the end of one week or two of what you do. But she didn't do it. Thirdly, the Constitutional Court says, if, or when a referendum takes place, it is the right to vote in the referendum on the one hand, on the one hand, the personal right of the voter; however, on the other hand, each voter shall exercise it in person, but in a collective manner, that is, together with all the other voters, in a pre-organised manner and in a pre-determined procedure. Therefore, there can be no irrelevant reasons that take account of the tradition in the country, which may affect the decision of the electorate and the electorate to participate in the vote. Whether they take advantage of this option or not depends only on their free decision. To put it simply, the tradition in this country is that people are more involved in elections – whatever local, presidential, parliamentary – than in referendum decisions. And given the normal logical interpretation of what the Constitutional Court said in repealing your decision when you set up this 4 May referendum, it is perfectly clear and reasonable that this referendum should be declared together with the elections to the European Parliament in this context. Of course you don't do that. Why? Because for you people, the simplistic thing is, fuck, you care about the people, you care about the needs of this people. This is proved by Alenka Bratušek all the time that she takes away the future from young people by borrowing over €8 billion in one year. This is demonstrated by the government of Alenka Bratušek, when it comes to questions of vision, whether young people will have jobs or not, whether the economy will have normal conditions or not, not least with the question of whether or not the programme of the largest government party of Positive Slovenia will be implemented, as the frozen president of this party has said, rather than dealing with issues that people in the 2011 referendum have decided very clearly and unequivocally. In 2011, three years ago, a similar question was raised at the referendum – whether archives should be kept open or not. And then people said, in over 70%, they refused to lock up, that they wanted the archives to remain open. And now you are forcing them to repeat this decision once again, while you are doing everything, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court, in its decision, has very clearly and unequivocally stated that it is unacceptable and that the abuse of power, that the legislator, in setting the date of the referendum, is pursuing the interest that as few electorates as possible participate in it; that this ambition, this procedure is contrary to the Constitution and the law. By telling people again what they think, you are doing everything you can to prevent this decision from taking place through formal procedural obstacles. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also do everything in advance to prevent this abuse of power that you are going through. And if there is no other way, if there is no other way to take this understanding in the decision-making, there will be no decision-making on this decision and if you do not confirm our amendment, then, of course, there remains only one last option, which is the only legitimate and normal one. And I can't imagine the future of this government if I got a third earring from the Constitutional Court in a few months.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackwich. The Minister asked for the floor, followed by Jože Tanko, Jani Möderndorfer and Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u75	Your Honor, thank you very much. In the debate today, several times it was mentioned that the contents of the 2011 referendum had already been rejected in the referendum and that it was the act of human will at that time. This claim is, of course, possible only if we do not know the law of 2006, if we do not know the law that was rejected at the 2011 referendum and if we do not know the novel archival law that we are talking about today. In 2011 the 2011 novels are being made available in a diametrically opposite manner to the novel we are talking about today. In 2011 the novelty tried to limit access to the material of the former SDV in a way that restricts access to the material whose disclosure could result in interference with personal security, to the economic interests of the State, to the foreign policy interests of the State or to the dignity of the individual. This was rejected by voters at the 2011 referendum. The novel we're talking about doesn't know these categories. More. The novelty that we are talking about, which you are so persistently challenging and which you claim to enhance access to materials, prohibits any public-law organization in any way from shutting down access to archival material. But I told you – the 2006 law makes this possible. Rather than being unattainable, the new personal dignity of any individual protects through anonymisation and makes the archive material accessible to everyone. Moreover, no public legal person, as the creator of the material, allows for any reason to require the inaccessibility of the public archive material produced before 17 May 1990. The reference to human will from 2011 is completely irrelevant and declassified. Does the novel close access to researchers? See, compared to the 2006 law, the novel retains absolute access to the whole material for all investigative bodies, parliamentary commissions and so on. The Novela introduces exactly the same access instrument for researchers, without restrictions through the archival commission. The novelty, however, introduces an anonymisation process in a way that makes as much material freely available to everyone as possible, not just to researchers. I can translate it into numbers. At the moment of 403.2 of the current meter of archival material of the former SDV, according to the law you are so persistently defending, only a weak 5% is freely available. At this point, 75% would be available after the amendment. So much for who opens or closes the archives. There's one more thing I have to say. Why the difference? Because the collection of sensitive personal data has narrowed down. He's narrowed down to one category. Political affiliation, union membership, philosophical belief is no longer sensitive personal information, because we are talking about the Udba, about the SDV, we are talking about the political police. Believe it or probably you know, I believe you've been to the Archives before, that virtually every document speaks of the political affiliation of someone. Such a document is not freely available under the law you're defending. It's a 2006 law. 75% compared to 5% of the Udba archive material is available immediately after the novel for everyone. On the website, if you want, like every Friday the Archive publishes the material of the Udba as much as you can under the law and the law in force so far. And there's one more thing I need to mention. I do not think that the Constitutional Court can be played in the way of interpreting its decisions, interpreting them, interpreting them, criticising them, so I quote them exclusively. One, of course, is the saying of a decision that is unequivocal. Secondly, there are explanations from the point of view of the understanding of this sentence. I must remind you that the core of the explanation is paragraphs 22 and 23 of the Constitutional Court decision, where, in paragraph 22, the Constitutional Court unequivocally states, and I will quote: "As long as it moves within these constitutional frameworks, the National Assembly shall have a broad field of assessment in determining the date of the vote at the referendum. The full jurisdiction of the National Assembly is when it will determine the date of the referendum." We know what the law says. Within 45 days with a normal majority, in some later period with an absolute majority. What are the constitutional frameworks set out in point 22 of the Constitutional Court? Firstly, ensure the effective exercise of voting rights in the referendum as a right of positive status. That's the first one. Second. The very nature of the right to vote in the referendum at the same time as the constitutional requirement for a quorum to reject the law at the referendum. And third. Request for fair implementation of the referendum procedure in each individual legislative referendum. So these are the constitutional starting points. The 23rd point, however, is that point where the single and only argument of the initiators of the referendum is adopted, namely that the possibility of the Institute of Early Voting is violated by establishing on 4 May. Early voting is what the Constitutional Court – when you read Section 23 – closely links to the effective exercise of the right to referendum. And this is the point where the Constitutional Court has made itself very clear that we must absolutely respect. But this is also the only argument given to the right, to the left, to the middle and I do not know which parties to the debate and what the powers and duties of the National Assembly are to determine the date of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u76	Replica, Mr. Black. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Now, I must say, they are not the most credible words out of the mouth of someone who has lost his ruling in the Constitutional Court. It is very difficult to hear that the 22nd or 23rd points of the explanation are more important than the 18, 19, 20, 21 and all others. For this reason, I estimate that there is nothing wrong with the fact that you force your head through the wall again, that once again until this incomprehensible, unconstitutional, unconstitutional decision is determined by the Constitutional Court. But I can't imagine the consequences of re-decision, especially if they're negative for you. But we keep this in mind because we are talking about you acting again not only in violation of the Constitution and the laws, but you are acting consciously again in contravention of what the Constitutional Court has said in explanation of the repeal of your decree, where it has clearly and unequivocally stated that the legislator must not afford abuse of power by allowing the date of the call for a referendum to be held in a referendum to restrict the right of people to decide in a sovereign and broad manner. It is also necessary to take into account the country-specific tradition of this decision. I said earlier that tradition in this country is that people participate more in elections than in referendums. And this explanation of the Constitutional Court to a normal reader, so much more to the Minister, should be completely clear and unequivocal. As to what this law opens and does not open, you have been demented by the profession, Minister; except for the paid profession within the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and its associates, who are in some way political officials. All the other professions have demented you. And if the profession perceives the novel as closing, then it is a perfectly clear signal that this is the case. Last but not least, 46 thousand 716 people saw this as a closure and not an additional opening of archives. All these arguments speak in favour of not being right and knowingly manipulating the public, because you know very well what it is, as the then predecessor Maja Širc knew, when first through the Archive of Slovenia, through a decision, she closed access for researchers to individual materials. By the way, on the basis of this decision, the former Director of Sova even considered himself the then Chairman of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission to prevent entry into those premises where this archive material of the former SDV was stored at that time. As the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, it was prevented from entering the old papers before 1990. And since they then found out that these decisions were annulled after the complaints, they came with a new law. Mrs Majda Shirca, who, as you now claim, spoke about how the archive is being opened, how it will be more open, how it will be more widely accessible, the same vocabulary. I don't know if you've read her statements at the time, but now you're repeating them. But the same thing you're saying today that you're opening up is what she was saying at the time. And people said you were wrong. You're not opening, you're closing. And then her marriage was abolished, a novel. And this government, in the absence of questions for the future – where young people will get jobs, whether they will continue to be free of charge or not, whether people will be able to receive treatment or whether the health system will collapse in the coming months or whether we will go bankrupt in view of the fact that we are in debt at a rate of EUR 1 million per hour – raises back questions that have already been cleared up in 2011 and have been very clearly understood and rejected by people at the referendum. And not only that; when you open them, you still want to prevent people from deciding on the day of the referendum 14 days after the elections. Extremely depraved, Mr. Minister, utterly turned from you and your government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, thank the Minister for this knowledgeable interpretation of the Constitutional Court decision. If, or if he had already been so familiar with constitutional matter, the first decision you actually defended with the same arguments as the current decree would probably not have fallen. At the same time, the coalition and the government are proposing solutions that are, in fact, technical obstacles to the successful implementation of the referendum. Nothing else. You propose, you have proposed in the first decree, and also in this way, solutions that limit the widest possible accessibility or the greatest possible participation of people in the vote on this law. If you have such confidence in the solution and what you are saying, then it would be good to support the proposal proposed by the SDS. Only those who do not hope to do so who are fearful run away from it and do everything they can to initiate the referendum process when it is a holiday or to postpone this vote at a time after it is necessary. The second thing is, it's a coalition contract issue. That's where you wrote that you wouldn't open up ideological themes. The law that you put into procedure opens up exclusively ideological themes, exclusively ideological themes, because it prevents insight into the content that came about before 1990. Before 1990. And you're doing absolutely nothing but this. Every vote today or every voter, every push on the key costs about 20,000 euros. 90 Members of us, the difference in costs between choosing one or the other date is 2 million, that is to say about 22,000 euros. Since some support the distinction or the postponement of the date of the vote on the referendum, you will take a relatively higher burden on this decision. And if it happens that we will have to deal with the call for a referendum on this matter again, then something will probably be very wrong. The Minister has proven to be an excellent expert on constitutional matter as an excellent commentator of the Constitutional Court's decision. And if it happens again, that the Constitutional Court will decide and possibly reject that, which you will accept, then knowing constitutional matter and what the Minister explains is something very wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u81	Thank you very much. In this debate, I will take advantage of only one opportunity to address, in particular, those who are still hesitant about which option they will support. I will not address those who, today and for several days before, have spoken one and the same thing for several weeks before, how injustice occurred to them. What matters to me is only one thing. If we want to preserve a number of other democracies, it is very important that we do not make excuses for the costs and that we do not work with the bird or frog perspective of the Constitutional Court, what and how it was decided when it was actually more or less clear to everyone that it was only one fact – people should be allowed to participate in the referendum, and in a way that they can also prepare for it and get acquainted with the question. Everything else is just a variety of walks, in one way or another, in some way an interpretation of how everyone would satisfy their truth and their view of why they would like to have a date. We all know we're only talking about two more dates, which is May 25 or June 8th. Of course, if we want to respect the Institute of Human Will or the referendum, we must give it time and space — as he deserves. It is not under the cover of some other elections that we justify the story that we will thus ensure the legitimacy and eligibility of this referendum. That is why I will always, whenever possible, and as long as I have it, defend that time and moment to do it in the right way. I myself understand the constitutional decision by assessing that it is too short a time limit for the referendum to take place on 4 May. That is why it is now necessary to do so or to go in that direction in order to allow for the maximum time limit so that voters can prepare themselves and participate in this referendum. The purpose of the constitutional amendment that we have made in Parliament in order to enable, above all, the possibility that the referendum will no longer be misused for political purposes was, and some have forgotten this very quickly, in the first place that Members have given up the opportunity to propose a referendum; and secondly, that we do not abuse it for political purposes in such a way that a very small group of people will decide on certain issues that are not of national importance in this country. This can be identified in several ways. How we can find out this, we have decided that there is also a degree of participation that will justify this referendum or decision of validity, whatever it may be. And that is why it is also an additional test, whether this is really the case in this direction. I will personally support the proposal, and this is June 8th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Roberto Battelli has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. If what the honourable Mr Minister claims is not an argument, then it is not an argument to squander two million euros and a referendum will be held on 25 May. It is said that what it explains is that this amendment of the law actually represents an even greater opening of archives than it actually is. There's no connection. As far as the campaign is concerned, everyone has the same opportunity to implement it for or against the law. As for the initiators themselves, it is also necessary to pour pure wine here, because last time the SDS was not an incentive through Mrs Eva Irgle, but it was a citizens' initiative that succeeded. The instigator is not SDS if that explanation applies, but it is almost 47,000 people who feel that a referendum should be held and that this matter should be decided again. This is essentially something, at least in my opinion, unwise, which is being advocated. It is clear that participation even in European elections will be increased, we know how low it is usually if we also have a referendum on the archival issue on the same day. We are thus at risk of having a lower participation on both 25 May and 8 June. In addition, there is practice – here irrespective of the change in the Constitution, around referendum material is the practice in Slovenia to nevertheless implement certain procedures that require people to vote, if possible, simultaneously, as in any normal country. In Italy, for example, there will now be European elections and elections for two countries and for countless municipalities at the same time. And as a result, no one demands that these elections be held on separate dates. The last time I mentioned what I had seen on many occasions on my own in observing elections in other countries, when it is normal for referendums to be held simultaneously with elections, because this is more rational, because this makes for an even better expression of human will, which is not necessarily against the law; it can also be for the law, gentlemen. This is one of my own political games, which, among other things, smells like a constitutional court decision to be played. In short, the matter is completely unconvincing in my eyes. And we're talking procedure. I will, of course, support what seems to me to be the best in my right mind; and this is to do so at the same time as the European elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u85	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, Your Honor! I think that when the referendum was proposed, the costs discussed so much today were completely unnecessary, even though there is no talk in the Constitutional Court's decision on the cost decision. The fact is that the law is good that it is comparable to other laws in the European Union, that it is very modern and that the archives are open to both interested professionals and the general public. Not only that, but also documents relating to the period prior to 17 May 1990 are available, it is said before the formation of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In a public presentation of opinions, the issue was raised when, due to one personal data, the whole document — for example, 340 pages due to one personal data on page 7 — became inaccessible; the whole document, 340 pages. Then, with the amendment on the Committee with anonymisation, this 340-page long document was opened; with the exception of this personal data, for example, on page 7. And now I'm going to make it concrete. Let's say it's a reputable Slovenian intellectual with a name and surname, and it says that his wife cheated on him with an important party official. The entire document will remain available to the public, anonymous only the part where it will say that his wife has cheated with a respected party official, and all the names will remain and the entire document will be opened, only this disputed piece of the sex life of these persons will be darkened. I don't know if you'd like to rely on that kind of information?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Very briefly, just a few responses. Mrs Jelušičeva, the collection of signatures is also allowed to Members, she has criminalized our work, I do not know where this idea came from. Mr. Meh, you were talking about all the funds being allowed, that's what our president said. I understand that this word relationship "all means" is closer to you because you were powering yourself out there — from the Udba. But our president said he would use all political and legal means. You know, that's the thing. So much for that. Otherwise, Minister, please stop deceiving yourself. Really stop deceiving yourself, because the matter is absolutely as clear as day. You publish documents that are irrelevant. Why don't you announce who killed Stephen Montenegrin? That's what you'll announce if you hope. Get it out of the way! Why you imposed six restrictions on the officers, but there were no restrictions before. You see, that's the trick, so it would be really good if you didn't talk about researchers anymore and how it's accessible to the police and so on, because that was before. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u88	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Meh, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u89	I strongly oppose what Mr Gorenak says, that my power is from the Udba. I could say that Mr Gorenak's power supply is from the former system; of course, as a senior militia officer, he has all these methods, that is, the diversion and all that. I am very clear that I am proud of everything I have actually done in this life; I am proud of what was in that common country, including the party where you, your president and someone else were. Well, I'm proud of all of this. But I'm such a tease when someone says that my power from the Udba, it's just stupid, insulting and you're worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I'm asking if Mr. Secretary would like another word at the end? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u91	Your Honor! I have a few things to explain, of course. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia began with the public publication of the documents of the State Security Service, which were created before 17 May 1990, for a simple reason because we want these documents to be as accessible to all. Every Friday – according to the options, according to how much in the current technologically equipped, human resources-equipped archives can digitise the relevant arguments – you have new and new arguments available. The argument on why certain reports, after that first publication, such as on the functioning of the State Security Service, were not published is, in fact, an argument which shows the whole bizarreness of the candidates of the referendum and opponents of the existing law, because in fact the reasons why certain reports are not published are not precisely the reasons for the successful novelties and which resolves these dilemmas. Mrs Irgle said a while ago that some reports are missing – only one report is missing with a single year; for a simple reason, because in that year, the Udba changed the methodology and in the report showing how the service worked, it entered some sensitive personal data which, following the law in force, – which you defend as the most open, most democratic – those that prevent the public publication of the material. It's enough to write for a person that he was a communist or that he wasn't a communist. And according to the 2006 law, we can't publish this material. Nor is it freely accessible to researchers without going to the archival commission, which is not such a problem, since the archival commission, as you know, also after the current law, deals with about 20 such requirements annually. And also, of course, the argument that novelty and anonymisation will take 170 years to properly equip the digital material, these 403.2 or 3 liquid meters of Udba material – and that we will need 127 years to do so, is attracted to hair. With today's technologies, with all the digital robots that enable it, and with this material being largely reviewed to the extent that we know where sensitive personal data can be expected, and that the collection of sensitive personal data from the novel is smaller than that covered by the 2006 law – this will not be such a problem. Of course, you have to be aware of something. Researchers, including researchers primarily referred to by the European Resolution on Consciousness and Totalitarianism, will require and expect and need comprehensive arguments. And these will be accessible to them through the archival commission. The 2006 law is problematic from several perspectives. He was warned by the Ombudsman. And look at the fraction, the Constitutional Court issued a decision three weeks ago that found that the provisions of the 2006 Law concerning health data were unconstitutional. Indeed, a novelty is one part of what the Constitutional Court has imposed on the legislator; the part that speaks of public entities being able to have their own protection of archival material – another very important professional component that institutions can regulate their own protection of archival material, which is not contained in the law of 2006. However, there is no novelty in not actually allowing this data to be transmitted to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. And this will certainly have to be corrected and the 2006 law will have to be thoroughly corrected here if the referendum succeeds. The information officer clearly and clearly pointed out the problem of personal data in the 2006 law. Mr. Omerza, I quoted him on the committee, said himself publicly in a few shows, 5. 2. 2014 in Hot Chair on Pop TV, I quote: "When Director Matič internally established anonymisation, he was created in the Arch of the Republic of Slovenia chaos because it was technically impossible. Then there was also a violation of the law, since this material could not be processed, only the udbovite portion of the material was anonymized. Then no one took into account sensitive data from the old law, since they only met two criteria: sexual orientation and health. Everything else was deleted by internal arrangements." This is the 2006 law, and this is how it is implemented. This is what Mr Omerza is talking about very precisely, very sincerely and very rightly. I was just quoting him. And I'm going to quote a little more. What does the personal data of the officials referred to by Mr Gorenak mean? A quote from the same show, the same day, the same medium. "The personal data of the officials will be difficult to find because the Ustva did not accompany the officials," Mr Omerzo quoted me as saying that there will be no mistake. It's actually a more cosmetic matter. We find the most sensitive personal data of the victims, not the officials. Whether it's in there or not, it's symbolically important. And one more thing about how the 2006 law, which you so scrupulously advocate as the most democratic and the one that opens up access to the archives of the Udba, should be the one that is the right one; it was actually the one that keeps the archives more open in your opinion than the novel does. Why isn't that true? This is not due to the fact that, according to the 2006 archival law, we have a defined non-accessible material containing sensitive personal data, which, of course, is cited by the law. Personal data obtained by violating human rights and fundamental freedoms relating to persons who were not holders of public functions. Under the 2006 law, two other sub-laws were followed during the time of your government, honourable Members of the SDS, who place honesty of intent and these violent rhetorics on opening SDV archives in a very unusual light. Guilty, innocent, I don't know. You know what I'm gonna say. The Government then adopted a regulation on the removal of material from the archive of the former SDV, which introduced a new indent to restrict access, namely, the reasons for national security. Reasons for national security in SDV material. Then, under this Regulation, an Agreement on the Special Protection and Accessibility of a Certain Part of the Archives was established in 2008 and was signed by the then Director of the SOVE Andrej Rupnik and the current Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Matevž Koshr. It even contains provisions on the level of confidentiality that the law does not allow in this way and on the general inaccessibility of this material by 2044. You know well that this act, from the plane's perspective, is illegal. And the third time. In practice, access to archival material, as regulated by the current law, was difficult or impossible to implement – I quoted Mr Omerz on this subject – and therefore, on the basis of a specific statement by the user that he would not disclose or forward personal data, the required assessment was circumvented in order to ensure access to the material through the archival commission. The archiving commission must determine and confirm whether sensitive personal data were obtained through human rights violations and whether they related to persons who were not holders of public functions. The material was only available to researchers under the law you are defending in a way that violates the current law. It's a 2006 law. The Novelo takes into account examples and the way in which access to material is good; it makes the practice of law, simplification and transparency. Access to archive material is linked to responsibility, but the government's specific actions show that it wants archives open and accessible to all, not just to someone – not just to some researchers, not just to some publicists. Let each person create his own opinion of our half past history by having a direct look at the archive material, as it makes only sense today — on the website, electronically. This way, I'm sure, with or without a referendum, the future development of the archival profession will go. And that's also the only way to eventually come to a clear relationship with our half-lived history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u92	Thank you. Reploko wants Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Do you know why your words, Your Honourable Minister, do not sound credible and convincing? At least for two reasons. For the first time, the archives were wanted to be closed in 2011 under the tactics of then Minister Majda Širca – at the time when researchers began to investigate the bombing in Veliovac in the 1970s and its connection with senior Slovenian officials who were then in high positions in the Republic of Slovenia in 2011. That's when this novel started, we had a closing referendum and so on. And even then we listened to the same rhetoric about how Mrs Majda Shirca opened the archives, not closing. And secondly, these words of yours are unworthy because of the fact that you started this story, in connection with the investigation of some murders in the 1970s, the 1980s, carried out by the Court and its individual associates, who were also in some way connected with the high officials of this country. So the same scenarios and that's why your story, which you're explaining here, is unbelievable and it's not believed by those who benefit from the archives that get to know each other professionally; and it's not believed by those who have signed the request for a review of this law at the referendum, is said to be more than 46,000 people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u94	Thank you. Ms Eva Irgle also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I've only got a minute and a few seconds, I just want to say the following. What is the responsible policy? Responsible policy is the policy that first respects the Institute of the Referendum and is aware that direct decision-making is the basis of democracy. The responsible policy is also a policy which does everything in order to allow the highest possible participation in the referendum, despite the possibility or behaviour that its decision in the referendum will not be confirmed. This is also explained by the decision of the Constitutional Court and the National Assembly. The fact is that the coalition, with the choice of date 8 June, first of all on 4 May, wanted to deliberately prevent as many people from participating in the referendum as possible. However, the National Assembly should be the first to act in accordance with the Constitution to monitor the economy and the economy and to seek cost rationality. In accordance with these principles, each responsible coalition and policy should act in such a way as to set 25 May for the holding of the referendum, together with the European elections. Why? This would place a minimum burden on the state budget and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would also have the least cost by coming to the polls. However, you have a prestigious fight and because of this political struggle you have done everything we have said today. You are acting contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, you are also acting against the prudence of the use of public funds and you are acting contrary to the 46 thousand signed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u96	Thank you. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a decree. We are moving on to a debate on the sections and amendments tabled. Before that – Mr. Han; did you want procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u97	Procedural. Otherwise, I will be able to propose a recess before the vote, and after that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u98	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u99	No, no, because I can't. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u100	Yes, because there is a debate on the sections and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate the third section as well as the amendments of the Parliamentary Groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? Of course, those who have time at their disposal. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Of course, it is a key amendment, a key amendment of the coalition, which translates the beginning of referendums from 24th to 28th or from 25th to 28. What does that mean? As a result, everything is clear – since it has to be in line with the 30-day legislation for the referendum campaign, we can only have a referendum on June 8th. And that's what the Constitutional Court has already told you not to. The Constitutional Court has made it very clear that the date of the referendum should be determined in such a way that the maximum number of voters can participate. However, since you want to set the date to so late with the start of referendums, the situation is therefore clear. Since a group of people will go to the elections on 25 May, the percentage of people who are about to go to the polls is also about to know what they are like in the European elections, it is therefore quite clear that you want to achieve lower electoral participation or lower participation in the referendum on 8 June. And that's exactly the point of the coalition. Of course, we are opposed to that. Such an amendment which leads in this direction cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u102	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to chapter three? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on the third section and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate the fourth section and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tinker Bell, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u103	Thank you. It is a matter of setting a date on 25 May instead of 8 June for the implementation of this referendum. This decision is reasonable, according to what was stated in the explanation of the decision, when it repealed on 4 May as the date of the referendum, by the Constitutional Court in which it expressly stated that the determination of the date of the vote on the basis of the legal provision in itself constituted the arrangements for the exercise of that right; that decision must therefore be reasonable. The decision of 8 June, when we have elections to the European Parliament on 25 May, is not a reasonable decision and is contrary to this direction given by the Constitutional Court in some way. Furthermore, the date of 8 June is also contrary to the direction that, when the date of the referendum is set, the National Assembly must set the date by allowing as many electoral beneficiaries as possible to participate in the referendum vote. And in the assessment between 8 June and 25 May, since we have this option, it is quite clear that participation on 25 May will be significantly higher than participation only in a possible 8 June referendum. And the National Assembly, if it takes a decision on June 8th, acts consciously here in contravention of the Constitution, the law and the direction of the Constitutional Court. So you are consciously working towards reducing electoral participation, in order to reduce people's ability to decide on this issue. The Constitutional Court has once in the past in such cases, when the legislator in some way acted in an arbitrary way to determine whether or not some right was to be recognised, has already decided to intervene in the jurisdiction of the legislator, i.e. the National Assembly. This is particularly due to the fact that it was heard when this decision of the Constitutional Court was adopted that the Constitutional Court, if it had also set the date of the referendum, would have entered into the legislative jurisdiction which it should not. Of course, if the legislator acts in accordance with laws, constitutions, reasonable, economical, rational and so on, and if he protects what is meant by the exercise of electoral or referendum rights. However, when the legislator starts to play with this issue when the legislator acts consciously in the direction of preventing legally guaranteed rights, then it is the task of the Constitutional Court to intervene in these relations. And this is what the Constitutional Court in one of the decisions in the past has already done. And in order to prevent the need for the return of the Constitutional Court to these issues, the only normal, reasonable decision – which is in accordance with the Constitution, laws and so that people can exercise their will in the widest possible manner and respects the decision of 46 000 716 signatories to this referendum – is to adopt this amendment and to allow for a vote on this referendum on 25 May, as we have already had the opportunity to see some vote on another referendum in 2007, when we had the same day of the presidential election and the decision on the referendum on the Triglav insurance policy. But, again, there was another authority, the first Janša government, a responsible authority that understood, for the first time, what is rationality, what is economics, what is people's interests and what human rights are. Unfortunately, this government doesn't understand if you don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u104	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to chapter four? I note that no; I therefore conclude the debate on the sections of the decree and on the amendments tabled. And we are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u105	Thank you very much. On the basis of Article 73, paragraph 2, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I request or request a 45-minute recess before the decision is taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u106	Thank you. Before this only a warning – I propose that we do explanations of vote. And according to the explanations made, we're going to order a 45-minute break. As part of my decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats and DeSUS to the third section, I ask if anyone wishes to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members? Procedurally, Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. It does not seem logical to me that explanations of vote should be made now that one group of Members has yet to find out what it will do. [[advertising from the hall]] No, with all due respect, this practice doesn't make sense, I don't think it makes sense. Because the explanation for the voice stems from some point of view that someone is explaining. And if these meetings serve to establish a position, then it doesn't make sense. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u108	Thank you for your warning. But the practice we have so far is to do explanations of vote. Nor does it need be that there is a harmonised position in the individual parliamentary group. Many times, then, this time is also used in order to peacefully try to talk about how someone will vote. Of course, each individual will decide whether or not to explain the voice. In fact, we never formally invite them, but it is up to Members and Members to decide. Without explanation, we could have gone to the vote and, of course, decided. Did you also want a procedural proposal, Mr Matjaž Han?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u109	Well, sir with the longest internship in this House logically wonders after 23 years what makes sense in this House. Roberto, 22 years is doing the same thing, so I'm surprised you can't look at yourself and you can't remember how 22 years have been done and how it's going to be done today. I would, though. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u110	It's a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u111	The procedural proposal is that gentlemen and gentlemen do not laugh at our proposals because they are perfectly in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u112	Thank you. This is a truly well-established parliamentary practice and, as I have said, it is always possible to decide whether or not to explain yourself. However, the discussion in the parliamentary groups is always useful. Mr. Battelli, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u113	Procedurally – in terms of the interpretation of practice, because it is not true that this is so from the beginning, it is not at all true. But it's been a few years that there's an opportunity. Only in the last few years is this opportunity to explain the voice earlier [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u114	Your procedural proposal, Mr. Battelli?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u115	Not all the time. [[…]] And I can say that because I'm just, not on my own fault, a long-time messenger. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u116	I must remind you once again that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a procedural proposal is not intended for controversy. On behalf of the groups of Members, no one has volunteered to explain the vote. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, he has an explanation for the vote. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! The proposal to start work for the referendum and to call for a referendum on 28 April is important for these reasons because otherwise there would be a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that the implementation of the referendum on 25 May would be contrary to so many times the Constitutional Court's ruling today, since the procedure for the implementation of referendums in this case cannot possibly be fair; rather, the legislator would be directly violating the rights of voters and voters with unacceptable restrictions and unreasonable conduct. If the referendum is to be held on 25 May, then Slovenian citizens who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia will not be able to file an application for registration in the electoral register if it has not yet been registered, as the deadline for submitting the application will expire today, that is on 24 April at midnight; that is, before the adoption of the decree in the Official Journal. In this way, one category of electoral beneficiaries would be deprived of the human right, which, by its nature, as I mentioned earlier, is the so-called right to a positive status, which is certainly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We will therefore, of course, support the amendment of coalition groups to sign a referendum on 28 April and then these procedures will begin, so that people living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia can also notify their entry into the electoral register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u118	Thank you, too. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? [[advertising from the hall]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u119	Thank you very much. This presentation is absolutely unnecessary. But it is not needed for many reasons, and this amendment is not necessary. Yesterday, on the Committee, we absolutely heard that there were expert services of the National Assembly, that the Secretary-General had agreed on everything necessary in the Official Journal so that this decree could be published today. This means, and this explanation was also given this morning by the President of the National Assembly, that this day is not at all problematic from this point of view. And he's not a problem! There's a problem with the amendment that's before us, which says we're moving the start of these jobs to April 28th. This means that, as a result, there can be no decision at the referendum on 25 May. However, if we do not accept the amendment, there will be a publication in the Official Journal today and work will begin tomorrow and we can have a referendum on 25 May, which is perfectly legal. Of course, it is also something that such a decision would not only be rational, smart, good and all that we have heard in the debate, but above all that taxpayers would cost much less than they would if they voted on June 8th. And there's something else that matters. The Constitutional Court specifically said that it was necessary to set a date that would allow as many people as possible to go to the referendum. Your amendment prevents this from moving the start of election referendums to April 28th; as a result, it is not the May 25th vote; it is June 8th. The amendment on our part will not be supported; but man understands, but perhaps you fear the loss of the referendum on the holiday, the birthday of your idol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u120	Thank you. On behalf of the groups of Members, there is no longer any interest in explanations of vote, so I ask if anyone wants to explain his own voice. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Even if this decree is recorded or published in the Official Journal today, in theory these people will have only a few hours to register with this electoral record. Even if the matter is published today, it does not solve this matter, which I have said is constitutionally controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u122	Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support the amendment that sets out 28 April for the start of the electoral process, which is the first working day following the publication of the decree in the Official Journal. If we come from the point of view that today is a meeting and that we will adopt a decree today, the following day will be published in the Official Journal in a normal or normal manner. Because it's Friday then it's logical to start electoral work on the first day of work. All those who advocate that people should be as well informed as possible about what we will decide about the referendum, regardless of what their position is — rejecting or upholding the law — will be given the opportunity to make good informed decisions. But there is something else to be pointed out. Those who advocate the implementation of the referendum on 25 May, by rejecting our amendment, resort to what is now stated in the decree – knowingly, they decide to violate the constitutional provision of equality before the law and to exercise freedom of decision at the referendum. For they cannot enter the electoral registers if they do not live in Slovenia. They cannot do this today, and this will in fact be done precisely what the Constitutional Court has said should not happen, that free will should not be limited by anything at the referendum. Therefore, the reason for supporting the amendment of the three coalition groups is very strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u124	Thank you. Anyone else want to explain on their own behalf? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u125	Thank you very much. If, in the coalition, we so explicitly respect the right of people to information and other matters, we would not allow the President of the National Assembly to call for the start of the signing before the weekend, but after the weekend. This is how it happened. And now you are all those who speak of these constitutional rights and human rights, in disharmony. The change in the date you are proposing is actually intended not to experience the referendum fiasco on Marshal Tito's birthday. This change is intended exclusively; at the same time it coincides with the European elections, but the slaps in this way may not want to afford it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u126	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. I'm concluding the explanation for the vote. In accordance with the procedural proposal, the procedural proposal by the Head of the Group of Social Democrats shall be suspended and shall be suspended until 15.40. We'll continue with the meeting at 3:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u127	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, we continue to work. I ask if the leader of the Social Democrats Group wants a word? He doesn't want to. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats and the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia to the third section. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 35. (The vote was 43.)(against 35.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the fourth section. Since the amendment to the third section of the motion for a decree was adopted on 28 April as the date of the referendum, before the vote on the amendment to the fourth section proposing to be fixed as the date of the referendum on 25 May, it should be noted that the adoption of such an amendment would lead to a contradiction and thus the non-conformity of the draft resolution with the first paragraph of Article 33 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, which provides that, from the date of the referendum invitation to vote on the referendum until the date of the referendum, it shall not take less than 30 days. In this case, therefore, the harmonisation procedure should be carried out on the basis of Article 171(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. An explanation of the voice? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On behalf of the parliamentary group, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73, I request a recess to consult the Group of Members in order to decide how we will proceed with the vote on this item of the agenda. 45 minutes off, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u129	I note that no one wants to explain to the vote, neither on behalf of the groups of Members, nor on my own behalf, so I am taking a recess on the basis of the request of the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and I am adjourning the meeting until 16.30. We'll continue with the meeting at 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u130	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, we continue to work. I ask if the leader of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group wishes to speak? He doesn't want to. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the fourth section. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. (There were 36 votes in favour.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decree on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Obviously, no school for coalition is expensive enough; it was not the previous school when you were rejected or annulled by the Constitutional Court. Since the Constitutional Court stated in paragraph 19 that a referendum should be made possible when the greatest possible possibility of participation is to be the best; therefore, since it is also a rejection referendum, it is no longer a form that was earlier, the coalition obviously acts contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court. It is an obvious violation of democratic standards, it is an obvious obstruction of voters to come to the vote when they come most, that is, on the European Parliament's election day. And it is obvious that the interest of this coalition in introducing, enforcing this decision is that you are able to break all democratic standards; it is right to do everything possible to ensure that participation is as low as possible and to enforce a law that undermines and protects those who have actually participated in certain criminal acts in the past of this country. In the process that the current coalition affords, and you keep repeating it, we're not going to help you do that. That is why, on behalf of the Group of Members, I am announcing the obstruction of voting on the decree. At the same time, I predict that a re-assessment of the Constitutional Court ruling will almost certainly be tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-24-SDZ6-Izredna-61.ana.u132	Thank you. Is there anyone else who might want to explain his voice in this interim period before the hall gets a little vacated by the alleged obstruction? I guess not. May I have your attention, please? We are moving on to a decision, namely a full vote on the decision. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 61st extraordinary meeting of the assembly. Thank you and goodbye.
