ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u1	Good morning, fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Ljudmila Novak, Dr Ljubica Jelusic from 12 noon onwards, mag. Barbara Žgajner, Aleksandra Osterman, Matevž Frangež, only Bevk from 2 p.m. on, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Matthew Tonin by 1:00 p.m. and Franz Bogovich. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law amending the law on cable devices for the transport of persons after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 34 Members and Members with the first signed by Alenko Pavlič. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposals for the Alenka Pavlič Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u2	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons was adopted by the National Assembly in 2003 and entered into force in 2004. The cableway devices represent a tourist infrastructure that has significant indirect effects on people and the development of a specific area in addition to the direct effects on the investor. Without tourism, certain areas would be partially emptied. This fact has also been learned in a number of strategies for the development of Slovenian tourism. One of the measures in the field of tourism infrastructure is also the removal of administrative barriers to the construction of basic tourist infrastructure, which includes cableway installations as one of the elements for the successful development of the tourist area. That is why there has been a change to the law in force in the previous year and 2013 respectively. However, problems in the construction of cableway installations arise also due to the Agrarian Communities and Property Status Act and associated ownership entitlements for land owned by members of agrarian communities. Managing property in co-ownership or joint property is governed by the Real Law. It requires the consent of all co-owners for transactions that go beyond regular management, such as the availability of the whole thing, the determination of the use method and the determination of the usable land. The problems of members of agrarian communities are related to obtaining the consent of all co-owners to enter into legal transactions necessary for the management of property. In practice, therefore, in many cases asset management is severely hampered. In particular, problems arise in the area of co-ownership and common property; determining how land is used; renting land; obtaining building permits; renting land; acquisition of construction permits; and so on. The great difficulty is also the inability of a large number of co-owners who are either unknown or displaced in other countries or even dead. This makes it impossible to dispose of the property of agrarian communities. The competent Minister of Agriculture has already decided to amend the Agrarian Communities Act in its entirety and also to address the issue of the ownership of agrarian communities. In doing so, it is appropriate to draw attention to the following facts or timetable for the adoption of the law. The law will probably not be adopted in the National Assembly until autumn or later. Therefore, for all planned investments in cable installations, this novel law will be a temporary solution that will allow for the acquisition of a building permit and the start of works before summer or at least before the start of the new season. Otherwise, this year's work is lost. In order to overcome the problems mentioned above, which arise in particular in obtaining the consent of owners and common owners in relation to the management of agrarian assets, the amendments to the law clearly provide for an exception to a business that goes beyond the framework of regular management and in which an intervention in property rights can be justified by its economic, social, security characteristics by public interest. The purpose of the law is therefore to regulate the conditions for depriving or restricting property rights on the properties necessary for the construction of cableway installations. It should be taken into account that due to public use and sport recreational importance, all cableway installations are in the public interest if the merits of the cableway installation and the appropriateness of the location are established. The basic principle of the law proposal is the optimisation of the whole procedure for the compulsory limitation of property rights for land owned by agrarian communities. Article 67 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia lays down the ecological, economic and social function of ownership for the whole of society. The main solutions are therefore: the investor must exercise the right of tenure under the Construction Act in the process of issuing a building permit. If an investor on certain immovable property subject to a regulation and a concession contract has not yet demonstrated rights, procedures may be initiated to enforce a limitation of ownership rights. In fact, the agricultural community is not a legal person and as such is not included in the land book, so it lists all the co-owners, sometimes even dying. There may be some problems here. Since the succession procedures for asset recovery under the Denationalisation Act have not yet been completed, the second paragraph of Article 35 of the Act should be supplemented. In the wake of this, honourable Members and Members, I call on you to support the bill presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Sam Bevk to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 16th meeting, on 9 April 2014, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the draft Law amending the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons submitted by the Group of Members and Members to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure, with the first signed by Alenka Pavlič. At its 88th meeting, on 19 March 2014, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. On behalf of the proposers, Member Alenka Pavlič explained that cable devices represent tourist infrastructure, which, in addition to the direct effects on the investor, has also important indirect effects on people and the development of a specific area. One of the measures in tourism development strategies is also the removal of administrative barriers to the construction of basic tourism infrastructure. The complications occur especially in cases where the owners of parcels of agrarian communities. On the basis of the proposed provision in the proposal for an investor to start construction, it would not be necessary to wait for a legal dissuasive decision, based on a similar arrangement in Article 475 of the Energy Act. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space Mag. Bojan Babič pointed out that a concession was granted in the area of Bohinjska Bistrica for the construction of three circular cableways. In the ownership process, some land has been shown to be owned by agrarian communities, which, as such, are not included in the land book because they do not have legal personality status. More than 100 co-owners are also listed in some parcels of the land book, most of which are already dead. As a result, all hereditary procedures should be completed before obtaining the building permit following the current law, which would take too long in terms of the realisation of the new ski project. He pointed out that some other investors in cable installations were also facing problems of obtaining consent from owners, and the government therefore supported the changes envisaged in the draft law. The representative of the Mira Palhartinger Legislative and Legal Service said that, with regard to the proposed amendment to Article 35 of the current law, the reason why the applicants said that the difficulty of planning and construction of land-based land-based facilities was to raise the question of the impact of the proposed decision on the issue of the consent of members of the agrarian communities with regard to transactions beyond the framework of regular management. She also pointed out that the proposal for an amendment to the Committee by the proposer improved the bill in terms of clarity, but not in terms of constitutional concerns. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law, since the regulation of exercising the right to build is similarly regulated in some other sectoral laws. While there has been a single support for all efforts to implement the project of the annual annual tourist centre in the Bohinjska Bistrica region as quickly as possible, some have warned that partial solutions should be avoided when such problems are faced in the investor country and the problem should be addressed systematically. It was also pointed out that an additional obstacle in the case of a constitutional assessment of the proposed provision would constitute a fact that a specific project for the decommissioning of a particular land would not be envisaged in an appropriate spatial regulatory plan. With regard to the concerns raised, it was explained by the proposer and the representative of the Government that the investor had managed to collect several hundred landowners' consents in the period to date. The biggest problem at this time is the land of agrarian communities, which cannot be acquired by reason of the inaccessibility of some co-owners. The Committee adopted its amendment to Article 1 of the Act. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee therefore voted on and adopted both articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amendment is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mag. Bojan Kumer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members, Madam President! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal of the law, since the law provides in Article 2 that the construction of cableways is of public interest because of their importance. It is important in terms of the development of tourism, recreational activities, economic and general social development. The Ministry has already issued an approving decision that the construction of cableway devices between Bohinjska Bistrica, Ravnami and Sedlom pod Mali Vrhom and Slatnik is justified. The second paragraph of Article 35 of the Act provides that a second instrument exercising the right to build shall be governed by a decision or decision establishing the procedure for decommissioning or attesting that a procedure for obtaining public service has been initiated. The draft law amends the Law on cableway devices so that, in addition to those rights instruments, it would also be considered: for the first time, a certificate that no denationalisation procedures have been completed; for the second time, a certificate that there have been no abandonment proceedings. Thirdly, the confirmation that the property was returned under the Act on the Re-establishment of the Agrarian Community. Fourthly, a certificate that the asset recovery procedures under the Cooperatives Act have not been completed. Fifth, the land book's statement that the real estate is booked as a public good. And finally confirmed that a proposal has been made to declare the owner of the property as dead. In the public service process for the construction of cableways in Bohinj, it has been shown that certain land is owned by an agrarian community which does not have legal status and is not registered as owner in the land book. Thus, more than a hundred owners, most of whom are deceased, are included in certain plots. The proposal to amend the second paragraph of Article 35 of that Act, following the example of certain other laws, complements the instruments by which the right to build is demonstrated. The fact is that within the protection zone of the cableway device – that is about 15 meters wide space for the construction, operation and maintenance of cableway devices – land is not bought or literally affected by land ownership. Landowners shall be subject to service contracts for parts of land covered by the safety belt. In cases where an investor fails to conclude a service contract to which an evaluation report is to be attached, the administrative unit shall issue a certificate that a public service procedure has been initiated. All further procedures shall be carried out with a view to obtaining service on land and not decommissioning. The object of obtaining agreement for construction is land which in nature represents pastures or forests and some land that is only crossed by a cableway. The construction is justified in the light of the intended technical characteristics of the cableways, the purposes of use, the mode of operation, the appropriateness of the location for the installation and use of the installations, the capacity of the cableway installations, the adequacy of the existing and intended tourist equipment of the area, the relocation of the area and accessibility as provided for in Articles 23 and 24 of that proposal, As a result, we propose support for the law in order to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Samo Bevk will be the first to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The cableway facilities represent tourist infrastructure. In addition to direct effects on the investor, this also has indirect effects on the development of a specific area. Here I am thinking mainly of tourism, without which certain areas that do not have developed other industries would fully stagnate. However, we need to build a tourist infrastructure, and thus to develop tourism we also need to simplify procedures or remove administrative barriers. And that's why we have this bill before us. The proposed law aims to regulate the conditions for the decommissioning or limitation of property rights on the properties necessary for the construction of cableway installations. The basic principle of the law is the optimisation of the whole procedure for compulsory limitation of property rights, especially for land owned by agrarian communities. In practice, this means that the agricultural community is not a legal person and as such is not included in the land book, all co-owners are mentioned. Since in most cases, for example, succession procedures, asset returns under the Denationalisation Act and similar cases are not completed, this means that ownership of the agrarian community cannot be managed, since transactions exceeding regular management require the consent of all owners or joint owners. The law includes a solution already established in Article 475 of the Energy Act. The Construction Act provides that the administrative authority may grant a building permit only if the investor has the right to build. As evidence of the right to build, it is generally considered that an extract from the land book from which it appears that an investor on a particular property has an ownership or other real or bond right that enables him to build and carry out works on such a property, or a notaryly certified contract on such a right. However, another law may also lay down a second instrument that demonstrates the right to build. In the event that the investor fails to conclude a contract with the landowner, a decommissioning procedure shall be introduced. This means that before the acquisition of the building permit, the discharge procedure must be completed legally, which could mean a long procedure for several years. On the basis of the proposed arrangement for the investor to start construction, it would not be necessary to wait for a legal discharge decision. Such arrangements shall also apply to other facilities in which public benefit is shown. In doing so, it should also be noted that the dissipation for cableway installations is applied only to construction buildings. The proposed amendment of the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons will be supported in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u9	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Ms Kristina Valenčič will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The situation in the area of spatial planning and construction is too difficult for us. The procedures are long-term and complicated and, as such, hinder economic development. Today the construction of buildings, the purchase of real estates, their use in Slovenia are more expensive and significantly less secure than in comparable European countries. A greater proportion of the blame lies in the weakness of legislation and the way it is implemented. Despite the many minor changes in spatial legislation that we have adopted in this mandate, more fundamental changes are needed, which are already being discussed in a professional manner. Managing space planning is not only a professional issue, but also a direct concern for public interest and various private interests. Renunciation of our own interest in the benefit of the community to which we are members is inevitable; however, it must be predictable, reasonable and proportionate to the benefits it brings. And it is in this area that a number of problems arise in practice. We are trying to eliminate one of these with the proposal of this law. The key objective of the proposal is to regulate the conditions for the decommissioning or limitation of property rights on the properties necessary for the construction of cableway installations. In the Civil Gazette, we agree that cable devices do not only benefit the investor, but also benefit the wider social and economic benefits, so we support changes that simplify the procedures for the construction of these buildings. Complicated bureaucratic procedures must not be an obstacle to new development, to new business opportunities such as a project to build a ski resort in Bohinjska Bistrica, which will have an important contribution to the municipality, the local population and the development of sport tourism. We caution, however, that the last possible and at the same time the sharpest measure to obtain property rights on property should be the last one to be dispossessed. In certain cases, the interest of the owners must be withdrawn from the public interest, but the decommissioning beneficiary must do everything necessary to ensure that the decommissioning process is not necessary. It is therefore necessary to make every effort to make an appropriate offer, to find replacement properties or to make maximum efforts to conclude a contract. The General Regulation on Disposal and Other Restrictions on Property Rights is governed by the Law on the Regulation of Space, and we therefore expect in the National Gazette the competent ministry to prepare an amendment to this Act or the Systemic Law on the Construction of Buildings, which will follow the solutions or simplifications offered by today's proposal. Most of these problems arise in the construction of motorways and other line infrastructure facilities. The MEPs and members of the National Gazette will be supported by the proposal for a novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Michael Prevc will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, after a short period of time, we have again at the table a change in the law on cable devices. Perhaps this would make many think that this is a question of the operation of cable devices or perhaps the safety of users. In fact, for the second time in a row, we are solving the issue of investing in cable installations. This is an investment, which, as the representative of the proposer said, is extremely important for the development of tourism; not only for concrete and very important investments in Bohinjska Bistrica; similar problems are faced by investors in cable devices across Slovenia. Where exactly is the problem? The right to build is, of course, the right that investors usually encounter at an early stage in the construction of buildings. And many of them face similar insurmountable problems. Owners who have spread around the world have died heirs, hundreds of co-owners, long denationalisation procedures, not least the agrarian community. And all of them associated to investors represent endlessly long-lasting procedures so that matters can be definitively settled and entered into the land book. This well - known problem, which has prevented many from investing, has also shown all their teeth in the planned construction of cable devices. He also showed that a number of issues related to the right to build a more meaningful solution to systemic laws, rather than to regulate them individually, once in the Energy Act, the second in the Law on the Re-establishment of Agricultural Communities and especially in the Law on Cable Devices. I hope that this, so to speak, has also been perceived by the representatives of the competent ministry and that they will nevertheless try to simplify this area in some way, perhaps in the future in the new building law. We must certainly be aware that with the exceptions allowing the construction of buildings before the regulation of ownership relations, we are in fact already interfering with the constitutionally protected right of private property, which means that we are on rather thin ice with all these exceptions. On the other hand, investors face countless such and different obstacles and complications in construction, as we know, which are deterred from investment. A vicious circle. That is why today I would particularly highlight this problem, this challenge, which is certainly before the Minister of Infrastructure and Space in order to ensure constitutionally protected rights in relation to private property; however, that he tries to simplify and shorten all these construction procedures, as is the case with neighbouring countries. I am not just talking about the right to build, I am talking about the whole spatial planning process, about obtaining all the kinds of permits needed for construction, about the documentation to be submitted in the administrative procedure. We have been talking for a long time about the fact that nothing happens in practice, and we are constantly changing individual articles of law to solve individual cases, such as today's construction of cable devices. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are therefore really expecting the Minister of Infrastructure and Space, not only to deal with the regulation and legalisation of black buildings, but to prepare and simplify spatial legislation as soon as possible; and thus, in particular, to allow for difficult investments in the economy, even before the last desperate investors flee abroad. We will support the amendment of the law on cable devices in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Honourable Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space; honourable Members and Members! In the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons was adopted in 2003. We have changed the law recently for almost identical reasons, as we have changed it this time. In the area of Bohinjska Bistrica, on land plots for which the competent ministry conducted a preliminary finding procedure concerning a well-founded planned construction and a public tender; a concession was granted for the construction of three circular cabways. In the ownership process, some land has been shown to be owned by agrarian communities, but as such they are not included in the land book because they do not have legal status. There are also hundreds of coowners on some plots of land, most of whom are already dead. Consequently, all hereditary procedures should be completed before obtaining the building permit following the current law, which would take too long in terms of the realisation of the new ski project, as the concessionaire undertook to obtain a building permit within four years. Similar problems are faced by some other investors in cableway installations, as well as many other private or public investors for other different investments. The second paragraph of Article 35 of the Act currently in force provides that a second instrument which, in accordance with the law governing the construction of buildings, demonstrates the right to build, dispose of land or to carry out works on a cableway shall be governed by a decision or decision of the administrative authority establishing a procedure for decommissioning or attestation that a procedure for obtaining public service has been initiated. In addition to the above rights instruments, the proposal for a new law amends this provision to consider that the procedures under the Denationalisation Act have not been completed; confirms the courts that the succession proceedings have not been completed; confirms that the property has been returned under the Act on the Reestablishment of Agrarian Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights; confirms that the property recovery procedures under the Cooperatives Act have not been completed; a land register that the property has been entered as a public good; and confirms that a proposal has been made to declare the owner of the property as dead. Or a certified contract on the right to build on real estate. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill because we believe that it is an urgent change that will facilitate the realisation of such and similar investments that are intended for public good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the position will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u16	Mr President, fellow Members and fellow Members. Christian Democrats are aware of the importance of building tourism infrastructure, in particular in areas where its construction is crucial for the development of tourism potential in legislation. Unfortunately, our legislation often poses administrative obstacles to investors wishing to invest in the construction of cableway installations for the transport of persons or other infrastructure, which result from the management of property in co-ownership or joint property. The most common cases are where the owners of parcels of the agrarian community, in which the members, in accordance with the Real Law, decide unanimously on matters which go beyond regular management. Since the Construction Act explicitly decides that an investor will obtain a building permit only after exercising the right to build, this actually means the duration of the proceedings, since landowners are often unattainable, displaced or even unknown. In Novi Slovenija we therefore believe that the amendment of the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons by additionally specifying the types of certificates of competent authorities with which investors will demonstrate the right to build at least partially removes procedural obstacles to the start of the construction of this infrastructure. Of course, we are aware that this means an intervention before the final arrangement of ownership relations, i.e. before the legal capacity of the decision on decommissioning or prior to the acquisition of public service. Most of the time, in the area of the protection zone of the cableway devices is not affected by the ownership rights of landowners, but for the land situated in the area, service contracts are concluded. It is true that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Cable Devices brings only partial solutions to investors and does not mean a systematic solution to the problem of exercising the right to build. The fact is that there are similar administrative complications in the construction of all line infrastructure facilities that are in the public interest and run through a large number of land. In particular, congregations often face such long - term procedures, so we are convinced by the Christian Democrats that this area of construction is absolutely necessary to be systematically regulated. In view of the above, in the New Slovenia Group, we will abstain in the vote on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons. We expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare, as soon as possible, a proposal for amendments to the law governing the situation of agrarian communities and a systematic approach to regulating supervisory legislation in the area of space regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, the position will be presented by Mrs Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia is identical to that of the proposer if I repeat the main solutions. The investor must demonstrate, under the Construction Act, the right of access to land in the process of issuing a building permit. If the investor on certain properties subject to the regulation and the concession contract has not yet demonstrated the right to build, procedures may be initiated on the basis of law to enforce the limitation of ownership rights. But sometimes the problem can be land owned by agrarian communities. In fact, the agricultural community is not a legal person and as such is not included in the land book, so it lists all the co-owners, sometimes even dying. There may be some problems here. Since the succession procedures under the Denationalisation Act have not yet been completed, the second paragraph of Article 35 of the Law should be supplemented by a solution similar to that already established in the recently adopted Energy Act or in Article 475 thereof, which lays down the conditions for the construction of public infrastructure. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the law presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the position will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u20	Good-bye, everybody! The solution proposed is, in our opinion, a partial solution to the sectoral law, as we have similar solutions in the Energy and Intervention Law and some other laws. The second paragraph of Article 35 of the Law on cableway installations for the transport of persons provides that a decision or decision to initiate a public service procedure shall be in force by means of a second instrument demonstrating the right to build or attesting that a public service procedure has been initiated. The draft law amends the Law on cableway installations in such a way that, in addition to the above-mentioned instruments of right, it would also consider a certificate that procedures under the Denationalisation Act have not been completed; it confirmed to the courts that there have not been complete succession procedures; it confirmed that the property was returned under the Act on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities; it confirmed that the property recovery procedures under the Cooperatives Act have not been completed; it confirmed that the land register had been published as a public good; it confirmed that a proposal for the declaration of the owner of the property as a dead person; or a certified contract on the acquired right to build on a property. In the ownership process for the construction of cableways in Bohinj, it has been shown that certain land is owned by an agrarian community which does not have legal status and is not registered as owner in the land book. Thus, more than 100 owners, most of whom have already died, are registered in certain parcels. The proposal to amend the second paragraph of Article 35, following the example of the Energy Act, complements the instruments by which the right to build can be demonstrated. The proposed arrangement allows for a substantial facilitating exercise of the right to build with a set of documents, which are also significantly extended to some incomplete procedures. This allows for the actual execution of the procedure before all ownership issues and the completion of the procedures for the limitation of property rights have been cleared. Such regulation should be reconsidered as it allows the investor to submit an application for a building permit before obtaining the right to build under the rules laid down in the Construction Act. It allows for the exercise of an intervention before the ownership relationship is settled before the resolution of the decommissioning decision takes effect and before the service is obtained for the public benefit. With this, the owners are severely limited or even prevented from cooperating, and the importance of these procedures, as well as the effectiveness of legal protection, is questionable. We have before us a second addition to this law, which solves a particular case for the construction of this cableway — and there were already many concerns about the exception. Now we have an exception on the table that solves the problem of the agrarian community in this story. We keep reminding ourselves that such partial solutions can harm an investor if there is a complication and a legal procedure below. The partial resolution of an individual case may, however, put pressure on the legislative body to change legislation in other specific situations of investing. We will not oppose the amendment of the law in the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place on Monday, 28 April 2014, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the prevention of restriction of competition after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Minister of the Dragon Method, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u22	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and others invited. Before you is a proposal for a new Law on the Prevention of Competition Restricted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 100th meeting, on 13. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee on the Economy adopted a proposal for a law containing amendments tabled at its 13th session, 9. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The aim of the bill is to eliminate the unconstitutionality of Article 28 of the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition, as established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the current regulation, the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Slovenia issues a decision on the investigation to order a review of the premises, which is contrary to the Constitutional Court’s decision because of the excessive interference in the spatial and communication privacy of legal persons who enjoy human rights as well as natural persons. It follows from the decision of the Constitutional Court that the order of the competent court for a detailed review of the business premises of an undertaking which is not freely available to the public and of electronic devices is necessary. Following a proposal for a new law, the Agency may carry out an investigation into an undertaking on the basis of the consent of the investigated undertaking or the written order of the court. The Court shall issue an investigation order on a proposal from the Agency where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the party has infringed the provisions of competition law and is likely to reveal the evidence relevant to the proceeding by means of an investigation. An investigation order shall be issued by an individual at the District Court in Ljubljana. The jurisdiction of the District Court shall be determined in accordance with the Courts Act. The aim of the concentration of local competence in Ljubljana is to achieve a greater specialisation of judges in the field of competition law, which is necessary because the area of competition law is specific and because it is a topic with which judges are less likely to meet. The proposer considers that, due to the new jurisdiction of the District Court in Ljubljana, this will not be significantly further burdened, as it is expected that up to five proposals will be tabled for the issue of an order during the year, which will not significantly increase the caseload with the District Court. In 2013, the Agency carried out investigations in four procedures, together with ten parties to the procedure. It is also worth recalling that the local jurisdiction of the court in Ljubljana for investigations in third parties is already laid down in the current Anti-Limiting of Competition Act. In the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts in Ljubljana, all court proceedings against decisions of the Agency for the Protection of Competition are also pending. In order to enhance the Agency’s independence and independence, it is proposed to delegate the power to decide on the exclusion of authorised officials in charge of individual matters from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the Council of the Agency. We also lay down the legal basis for determining the heights of meetings and the reimbursement of the costs for members of the Senate and the criminal Senate, which the existing regime does not now cover. On the basis of this explanation, I propose that the amendment of the law which has been tabled be considered together with the amendments and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Minister with co-workers, hello! The Committee on the Economy is at its 13th session, 9. 4. 2014, as a parent working body, treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. The College of Presidents is at the 88th session, 19. 3. 2014 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The Service drew attention to some unclear solutions and made specific comments to Articles 2, 3 and 7 of the draft law. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law; and the opinion of the Council of Justice, in which it expressed its concern about the establishment of the exclusive competence of the Court. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the PS Group, SD, DL and DeSUS on Articles 2, 3, 6, 7 and 13 of the proposal. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the proposaler's vague explanation of the weighting between the protection of the privacy rights of legal persons on one hand and the public interest and the effective conduct of the proceedings on the other. Additional questions are raised in respect of the rights of users of electronic devices who are guaranteed privacy under constitutional provisions and in the storage and seizure of those devices. Members and members of the Committee did not discuss the individual articles of the bill. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 6, 7 and 13 of the bill. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will be the first to present the position of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! The substantive amendment introduced by the amendment to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act refers to the abolition of the anti-constitutional provisions of Article 28 of the current law. The Constitutional Court has found that interference with the spatial and communication privacy of legal persons is permissible only if ordered by a court. Since I believe that your colleagues and colleagues have read the decisions of the Constitutional Court and have become fully acquainted with it, I would not be burdening you with it at this point. It is already clear from the Citizens' List programme that our aim is to ensure trust in a credible rule of law, so we will support the bill. I would like to stress, however, that we are aware of the untapped potential in the area of competitiveness in the National Gazette. Slovenia has lost quite a few seats on the world competitiveness scales over the last few years and is now, for example, on the global competitiveness scale in 52nd place since 60th. The World Economic Forum is 62nd since 148th. The poor rankings on the competitiveness map reflect stagnation or peace-building, according to experts. The recommendations on what Slovenia should change in order to improve the situation include consolidation of public finances, incentives for growth and employment, structural reforms, the restructuring of the public sector and the rehabilitation of banks, the issue of inefficiency of public bureaucracy, the inefficiencies of the labour market, the reduction of taxes and tax regulations, the elimination of corruption, political instability, the inadequacy of journalists and the inadequate composition of the labour force. All this, respected colleagues and respected colleagues, is an obstacle to Slovenian competitiveness. Competition within the country is the basis for competitiveness towards other countries with which you do not want to compete in this global world. We must be aware that these problems are not the reflections of the government of Alenka Bratušek, nor are the reflections of the government of Janez Janša, but are the sum of policies of the last 20 years – policies that apparently, despite good intentions, did not have the best vision, clear goals and good solutions. With the end of last year and the beginning of this year, we have already adopted some solutions aimed at consolidating public finances and refreshing the banking system, we do not expect a further negative trend in this area in this year's reports. But we must be aware that greater reforms in the fields of employment, health, the elimination of corruption, deregulation and demobilization are still awaiting us, and that it would be wise to agree today, instead of what kind of work the former official has created, on how to raise the work of 100,000 unemployed people. Instead of what someone would achieve in Antarctica and what someone would get in Finland, we could agree on how to achieve structural reforms and how to get investors to new jobs. Instead of the date of the referendum, it would be wise to discuss the date of the introduction of the cap on social contributions that would allow solidarity and justice. Instead of setting up a state speculative company for reselling, some agency, commission or office could also be shut down. This is only part of the proposals of the Civil Gazette for increasing competitiveness in our country, which should be the main purpose of this law – the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition, which, as I mentioned at the outset, we will support in the Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The position of the Slovenian People's Party on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition is as follows. As my predecessors have already said, the reason for the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition is, in the first place, the abolition of the anti-constitution of Article 28 of the current law with the aim of ensuring a regime that respects the protection of the spatial and communication privacy of legal persons. The key finding of the Constitutional Court was that interference with the spatial and communication privacy of legal persons was permissible only if ordered by the court. As we know, last May the Constitutional Court published a decision imposing on the National Assembly that the unconstitutional first sentence of Article 28(1) of this Act should be repealed within one year of the publication of the decision. It is clear from that decision of the Constitutional Court that a detailed review of the business premises of an undertaking which is not freely accessible to the public and of electronic devices requires a pre-order of the competent court. The proposed amendments and additions to the Competition Prevention Act include all necessary additions so that, according to the new Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition without the consent of the company or the reasoned written order of the competent court, it will no longer be able to carry out investigations in the company against which the proceedings are directed. The amendments to the coalition also supplement or amend the provisions to which the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly rightly pointed. Among other things, an investigation on the basis of a court order should only be carried out in the presence of two full-year witnesses, and it is also necessary to establish an investigation not only on suspicion but also on the grounds that it is in breach of Article 6 and 9 of this Act or Article 101 or 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. But between suspicion and reasonable suspicion, as we all know, there is, of course, a fundamental difference. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, of course, we support the abolition of the unconstitutional provision of the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition. However, we would have one comment. The Constitutional Court, as it is said, warned of unconstitutionality almost a year ago. The problem was practically one article, some of them just needed to be fixed more than beautifully. We believe that this was not a particularly demanding project that would take a long time to prepare. Therefore, we would expect, in particular further, that the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, would try to remove such unconstitutional provisions within at least three or four months and not wait for these corrections to expire until the deadline set by the Constitutional Court. This would also pay particular respect to the highest judicial institution in our country, to the Constitutional Court, and in particular to our highest legal act, to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak will present his position, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman, Honourable Minister with Fellow Workers, Honourable Assembly! In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we took the view that we would support the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Competition Limitation. The decisions of the Constitutional Court must always and necessarily be respected, although sometimes we do not like the final decision and the argument. The Anti-Limiting of Competition Act was also subject to a constitutional judgment and a clear decision of the Constitutional Judges – the unconstitutionality of a provision relating to the competence of the Public Competition Agency to decide on the conduct of investigations into business premises and the review of business documentation. Therefore, it is only an agency that can, as the only one, issue decisions concerning interference with the spatial and communication privacy of legal persons. This type of responsibility of the Agency, however, constitutes an excessive invasion of the constitutional right to privacy. In our parliamentary group, we agree with the explanation of the constitutional decision that the privacy of both legal and natural persons is a constitutional right in which it can be cut down only for a reasonable reason, on the basis of a preliminary decision — that is, a court order — and not any other body, such as the Public Competition Agency. Only a court may be the authority issuing such a decision to investigate the business premises and electronic devices of an undertaking which are not freely available to the public. Of course, the expert staff of the Agency shall carry out the investigation within the limits of the proceedings referred to in the order. The draft law in this part follows fully the constitutional decision and remedys the current anti-constitutional situation. We therefore expect him to be supported by both political sexes, both coalitions and opposition. By the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, he will certainly receive the necessary confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will move the position of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellows, Honourable Fellows, Honourable Minister with Fellow Workers. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the area of prevention of competition is extremely important, especially in terms of the protection of protected goods. It is therefore necessary to repeal Article 28 of the current Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition and to ensure respect for the protection of the spatial and communication privacy of legal persons. It is also important to ensure the independence and independence of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. The Law on the Prevention of Competition Restriction, which provides for a detailed review of the business premises of an undertaking which is not freely accessible to the public and of electronic devices, provides for a preliminary order by the competent court, guarantees against the arbitrary interference of the State with the operation of individual entities. Since interventions into the spatial and communication privacy of undertakings are carried out by means of an investigation which constitutes an invasion of the constitutionally protected privacy of a legal person, it is appropriate to issue an order for an investigation by a competent court; and not by an agency itself which exercises investigative powers. In addition, the novelty of the new investigation provides for the mandatory presence of two full-year witnesses; in addition to the existence of reasonable grounds for suspicion that an infringement has been committed, the likelihood of data relevant to the procedure being found on the electronic device must also be given. Since the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition acts as an independent and independent entity, it is appropriate to delegate the power to exclude authorised officials from the Ministry to the Council of the Agency through the amendment of the law. Christian Democrats also support the enforcement of the legal basis for determining the level of meetings and the reimbursement of costs for members of the Senate and the criminal Senate. For all the reasons that they are rightly required to accept the postponement of the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition, however, in the New Slovenia Group we point out the dilemma presented in its opinion by the Council of Justice and on which the proposaler has not actually been identified. This is the question of the exclusive competence of the District Court in Ljubljana, as set out in Article 28, paragraph 4, of the law or Article 6, of the amendment. This provides that the sole court mentioned or its judge is competent to issue an order of inquiry, which, in practice, may constitute an obstacle because of the Court’s already overburden. In view of the above, the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will not oppose the proposed amendments and additions to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Pavlič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Competition Prevention Act has been tabled by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in the legislative procedure following a reduced procedure. The Ministry shall, in its assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, provide for an abrogation by virtue of the provision of the Constitutional Court established by Article 28 of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act. This Article gives the competition agency the power to carry out a detailed review of the company’s public and non-disclosure business premises on the basis of an investigation decision, including against the will of the person. The Agency may review the cabinets, boxes, and contents of computers and phones. By a decision published in the Official Journal of May 2013, the Constitutional Court found that the first paragraph of Article 28 of the Competition Prevention Act was unconstitutional. It concluded that the paragraph which gives the Agency the power to interfere with the spatial and communication privacy of legal persons is unconstitutional. Such an intervention shall be permitted only if ordered by a court of law. The pre-trial authorisation of an intervention shall be a guarantee against the arbitrary interference of the State with the operation of individual entities, even if they are legal persons. The one-year period set by the Constitutional Court for the abolition of the said unconstitutionality is still in progress and will expire in May 2014. That is why we are also considering the novel today. The main solution to the novel is thus the removal of the anti-constitutional nature described, as well as the proposal to delegate the powers to exclude authorised officials to the Council of the Agency. Such delegation of powers would further contribute to the Agency's independence and independence, as the competent minister currently decides on the exclusions. The Novela also proposes a meaningful application of the provisions of the Regulations governing meetings and reimbursement of costs in public agencies and applicable to members of the Council, including to members of the Senate and the Criminal Chamber. In view of the transfer of powers in the proceedings of the Court of Justice from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia by means of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, it proposes the deletion of the provision of Article 61 of the Law. This provision refers to the fact that a complaint concerning judicial protection matters is not allowed, which may be controversial in terms of the protection of constitutional rights. For all the reasons described, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Franz Breznik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u36	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister with Colleagues, nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Government is proposing a law in order to eliminate the anti-constitutionality of Article 28.b of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act. Therefore, some non-compliance found by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in its decision of 11 April 2013, which also set a time limit for the abolition of the anti-constitution, in one year of publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court provided that the decision on the investigation of the company against which the proceedings are being conducted should be rendered by the Competition Agency in respect of the protection of the privacy of legal persons. As regards legal persons, the Constitutional Court has found that they are relevant to the rights of natural persons in force. Therefore, adequate constitutional protection of legal persons is also necessary. Some human rights must therefore also be recognised to legal persons, and the protection of these rights depends first on whether individual rights can relate to them in terms of their content and nature. However, the legal protection of these rights may differ from the protection of the human rights of natural persons in that legal persons are given a lower level of protection of rights. Legal persons also enjoy an internal field that is reasonably protected and protected from external intrusions. In this context, legal persons also enjoy the constitutional right to privacy, which is adapted to their legal nature. The interventions to this narrower field are, by their nature, linked to the high intensity of the intervention, which is reflected in such powers of the State authorities to comply with the concept of an investigation referred to in Article 36, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. Legal persons are also entitled to the protection of the communication privacy protected by Article 37(1) of the Constitution; and to an action in which access is possible only on the basis of a court decision. Since, due to the broad powers of the Agency, the investigation under the Competition Restriction Act constitutes an invasion of the right of undertakings subject to proceedings, it shall interfere with their narrowest field of right to spatial and communication privacy and shall be subject to a constitutional requirement for a preliminary court decision to restrict the investigation. The proposal for a law in Article 6 provides for an amendment to Article 28 so that an investigation can be initiated on the basis of the consent of an undertaking or a reasoned written order for an investigation issued by an individual judge at the District Court in Ljubljana. The Court shall issue an order where there is reason to believe that the undertaking has restricted competition in accordance with the law or the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. The proposal in the third paragraph of Article 28 provides that the court shall issue an order if there are grounds for suspicion that the undertaking has infringed the provisions of the law and there is a likelihood that evidence relevant to the proceedings will be found by means of an investigation. We believe that in the case of a review of electronic devices, the Agency should demonstrate the likelihood that the electronic devices identified in the Agency's request contain data relevant to the implementation of the procedure, namely for each device. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the law is appropriate, in an appropriate way, to resolve the unconstitutional nature of Article 28(1) of the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition, and that is why we are predicting support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The Group of the Social Democrats. The position will be presented by Mr Branko Smodish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! The draft law repeals the contraryness of Article 28 of the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition, as established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Agency's investigative powers interferes with the constitutionally protected spatial and communication circle of the privacy of legal persons. Therefore, the order for an investigation pursuant to the Constitution must be previously approved by the court. In fact, the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to abolish that constitutionality within one year of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. This is until 6 May 2014. In view of the starting points of the Constitutional Court's decisions, legislation must respect the spatial and communication privacy of legal persons and at the same time ensure the protection of important constitutionally protected goods which are based on constitutional provisions, in particular those which prohibit economic activities contrary to public benefit, prohibit acts of unfair competition and acts which, contrary to the law, restrict and require the effectiveness of Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It follows from the decision of the Constitutional Court that the previous order of the competent court is necessary for a detailed review of the business premises of an undertaking which is not freely accessible to the public and of electronic devices. The legislator may lay down certain lower standards for the protection of the constitutional rights of a legal person to privacy in the case of legal regulation of a court order for an investigation. After consulting the Agency, which is covered by Article 28 of the Competition Prevention Act, the applicant shall decide to propose an arrangement whereby an investigation order must always be obtained from the competent court for the purpose of carrying out the investigation; and not only for a detailed review of the business premises of an undertaking which is not freely accessible to the public and of electronic devices. In this way, the law shall be amended in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Court. In addition to this solution, the amendment of the law also confers powers on the Council of the Agency to exclude authorised officials in charge of individual matters. At present, the exclusion of authorised officials conducting a separate procedure shall be decided by the Minister who runs the ministry in which the administrative matter falls under the General Administrative Procedure Act. This is in line with ensuring the independence and independence of the Competition Protection Agency. We believe that the proposed solution is meaningful, but only the increase in labour obligations will not increase the efficiency of the Competition Agency. We are aware of the fact that, according to its powers or labour obligations, the Agency has been staffed, which was a problem at the time when it was the Office for the Protection of Competition. For this reason, we believe that the government, in cooperation with the Agency, should carefully examine this issue and propose a human resources plan that takes into account the optimal number of employees in the Competition Agency. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the proposal. The decision on the bill will be made on Monday, 28 April, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE CASTAR REVENUE LAW IN THE FIRST DEFINITIONS The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the law to Mr Zvonk Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u40	Dear President, colleague and colleague, distinguished Secretary of State! The Slovenian Democratic Party has decided to introduce a new Act on the determination of cadastral income on the basis that this government obviously wanted to burden agriculture with both the property tax which the Constitutional Court has rejected and the increased cadastral income to burden agricultural land owners with more income. The amendment to the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act, which was adopted last year and entered into force in June 2013, laid down, inter alia, that Gurs, each year on the basis of the calculations in force on 15 April of the current year, taking into account the changes in the average crops, purchase prices of crops, purchase prices, material costs and foreign services and the purchase values of the basic assets for the last three years preceding the year in which the income is determined, should be drawn up in agreement with the Ministry responsible for agriculture and the Ministry responsible for finance, the proposal for the cadastral income scales and the proposal for a flat-rate income assessment for the following year. It was also decided that the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia shall provide an overview of the current data on the level of cadastral income for agricultural and forestry land and, by 20 September of the current year, Gurs shall also provide an insight into the data on cadastral income calculated by the cadastral income scales for the following year. This provision is intended to allow farmers to take a preliminary look at their future tax obligation and decide how they will determine the income of their basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in the following year – or on the basis of a flat-rate income assessment, i.e. cadastral income; or on the basis of the management of accounting and income recognition, taking into account actual income and standardised expenditure; or actual income and actual expenditure. It is said that Gurs should give advance information for a year in order for farmers to decide. However, the calculations made for 2014 showed that this cadastral income would be significantly higher than that calculated in 2013 on the basis of the law adopted last year. It is said that some farmers have been misled, given that the Government has also proposed in the same way as the definitions of our law. However, since the Slovenian Democratic Party considered that the Government would not adopt the law by 20 June of this year, or the National Assembly would adopt the law, these calculations could remain as a basis for the calculation in 2014 and would be more than once higher than the calculation of the cadastral income for 2013. The new Cadastrian Income Law, which was adopted in 2013, was also necessary in last year because the new calculation of cadastral income, which was first carried out in 2013, was based on the Cadastrian Income Identification Act 2011 and 2012, and this law relied on insufficiently verified calculations and some inappropriate and even incorrect data. Therefore, the 2013 amendment adopted a solution to apply new cadastral income calculations only after the year of the production of new cadastral income scales in 2014 and in 2013 account was taken of the old cadastral income for all lands for which the newly calculated cadastral income is higher than the old one by more than 10 %. However, no new calculations have yet been made. Therefore, our party proposes to calculate the cadastral income for 2014 and 2015 in the same manner and in the same amount as for 2013. This bill also reduces the period during which Gurs must verify the consistency of the calculation at the level of technology and productivity of agricultural and forestry activities in the Republic of Slovenia from five years to three years. We are pleased that the government is of the same opinion, and I hope that further adoption of this law will be improved and adopted for the benefit of farmers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u42	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Catastrophe income is a special category of flat-rate method of determining the income of basic agricultural and forestry activities that are not used solely for tax purposes but as a universal assessment of the income of agricultural activities for which accounting records are not required under the rules. Also for the purposes of determining other obligations such as social contributions and the exercise of rights such as income-related social transfers. Therefore, in assessing flat-rate income, the aim is to make this assessment as realistic as possible, that is to say, as close as possible to the real income of the farm. The cadastral income, as we knew it by 2013, when the new KD identification system was actually in place, was valid from 1988 and was based on outdated data and calculations that were not verified at the time, but were only valorised over the years. Over the years, cultural relations have therefore deteriorated and the overall assessment of cadastral income has fallen significantly behind the real level of income. Therefore, between 2004 and 2006, a new methodology was developed in the framework of a project in which, in addition to experts, all ministries of interest, as well as representatives of interested agricultural organisations, worked out as a harmonised methodology with the new law on the identification of Qatari income. However, when the new cadastral income was calculated according to the new methodology in 2013, calculations indicated that the cadastral income for certain types of processing, in particular permanent crops such as orchards and vineyards, should be significantly increased. On the other hand, calculations mainly showed negative income for poorer productive land. However, despite prior harmonisation, the new methodology has been subject to some criticism, notably disagreements with the rapid transition to new calculations. To ease the transition to a new methodology, a transitional solution was put in place in 2013 which has already been discussed and would not repeat this. At the same time, a working group to verify the appropriateness of the new cadastral income methodology was established on a proposal from the Government in autumn 2013. In the first interim report, the Working Group found that the current method of calculating cadastral income from a methodological point of view was generally appropriate so that the problematic quality of certain input data could be appropriate. It also assessed that the existing model could not be improved in the direction of simplification, with only minor additions and changes, and therefore suggested that a complementary model should be developed for the price of greater simplification and flat-rate evaluation, which would allow for a more stable calculation of cadastral income and would depend on a smaller number of variables. On the basis of these findings, the Government adopted a decision imposing on the Ministry of Finance to prepare a new law on the determination of cadastral income and to extend the transitional period laid down in Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Identification of Qatari Income adopted last year. The proposal for a novel submitted by the Group of Members follows the same purpose. That's why the government doesn't oppose him. It considers, however, that it would be more appropriate to simplify the cadastral income determination process during the transitional period, thereby extending the transitional period until 2016, thereby allowing sufficient time to develop the new method and regulating the procedure for determining cadastral income for newly created parcels and for plots to which actual use has changed. To this end, we are predicting a further amendment procedure. Your Honor! In view of everything, we propose that the National Assembly approve the proposal for a law as suitable for further consideration. At the same time, we ask that you consider, in accordance with the business options, the possibility that the second consideration of the bill would take place at the May meeting of the National Assembly so that it can be confirmed on time for this year's doses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič will be the first to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the determination of cadastral income is as follows. Let me start by saying that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the proposed amendments to the Cadastrian Income Law proposed by some opposition colleagues. Let me remind you that in our Group of Members last May, we were the first to draw attention to the controversial methodology on which new cadastral income calculations were made, which is the basis for taxation of agricultural and forestry activities. Some of the values estimated under the new methodology have also increased by more than 10 times the old value, which would mean a marked increase in the tax liability for owners of agricultural land and forests. We therefore requested an urgent meeting of the Committees on Agriculture and Finance, at which five substantive conclusions were adopted, including the one which decided for 2013 that the level of cadastral income should not exceed 10% of the value of 2012. Furthermore, in both the discussion at the said meeting and in the discussions in the professional public, it was clear that the methodology was characterized by inconsistencies which could in no way constitute the basis for a correct assessment of the potential value of agricultural land and forests on the basis of which fair taxation would follow. Last but not least, this proved to be the difference in the projected increase in cadastral income, which was estimated at EUR 311 million after repeated calculations, and based on the same methodology, these values decreased significantly for 2014 – to around EUR 113 million, almost twice the size of the cadastral income in 2012, when the cadastral income was around EUR 63 million. This is therefore a clear indication that the methodology for calculating cadastral income is significantly flawed as it allows for a significant difference in final calculations on the same input data. This is also stated in its opinion by the Government, which does not object in principle to the proposed law. All inconsistencies led to the adoption last June of the new Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which, in addition to 10% of the 2013 cadastral income cap, also addressed some methodological shortcomings in forestry, as the calculation of cadastral income in addition to the land credit rating also tied to the growth coefficient and the law also introduced the cadastral income determination procedure for the year ahead. This means that new calculations must be published by 30 June of the current year and that income estimates should be taken into account in the following year. As already stated on behalf of the applicant, the proposed amendment of the Cadastrian Income Law therefore prolongs the transitional enforcement solution with the last amendment of this Act, i.e. 10 % of the cap at the level of the cadastral income, until 2014 and 2015. In addition, the period of verification of compliance of calculations with the level of technology and productivity of agricultural and forestry activities shall be reduced from five to three years. Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the proposed amendments, while also reminding us of the need for a comprehensive treatment of income from the exercise of agricultural and forestry activities. We have repeatedly pointed out the tremendous increase in the agricultural burden in 2014 in the form of the inclusion of the full amount of agricultural subsidies in the tax base, the increase in cadastral income and the mandatory bookkeeping for all those engaged in the agricultural activity and their annual income exceeds EUR 7 000 500. In addition, agriculture has threatened a real estate tax which, as we know, has been repealed by the Constitutional Court. All of these partial tax measures therefore call for comprehensive tax reforms to be undertaken in the direction of regulation, as they know in neighbouring Austria, for example. As it is said, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support and assess the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Law, which is suitable for further consideration. We expect the government to prepare such a regime of cadastral income in the coming years, which will go towards a comprehensive reform of agricultural taxation with a view to improving the competitiveness of this sector and also creating greater opportunities for this extremely important economic sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the position will be presented by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u46	A warm greeting to all present, and thank you for your word. The method of determining cadastral income is not uniform in the domain of each Member State of the European Union and the system at European level. In our country, we have decided on a new system for calculating cadastral income a few years ago, based on the resulting calculations and the determination of the cadastral income for individual types of actual land use, through the official publication of the cadastral income scales and the assessment of income for cattle. The old way was undoubtedly inappropriate, unrealistic, and completely inadequate. This is how the new methodology was to be implemented for the first time in 2013. However, since it has been estimated that it is too little time to rely on insufficiently verified calculations, on inappropriate and even incorrect data, last year it joined the amendment of this law by extending the transitional period and including the necessary safeguards. Today, we have before us a novel that offers an equalisation of cadastral income and a flat-rate assessment of income on the stump for this year and for the following year on the basis of data or calculations from 2013, for reasons such as the complainant claims, and the government rejects these findings – because Gurs did not provide farmers with an insight into the data on cadastral income for 2014 and because calculations are based on incorrect and inappropriate data. Even if it is a proposal tabled by the opposition, the Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners agree with the content. We believe that it is necessary to approach the correction of the determination of cadastral income, which is also agreed by the government, as calculations based on the new technology can be problematic and therefore inappropriate, unfair. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are aware that the calculation of the level of cadastral income affects the tax burden on farms and thus the social situation of our farmers involved in the production and production of food. It is therefore necessary to ensure a robust and stimulating system; it is a priority to be equal, fair and fair to all. It's only with this farmer that we can show our appreciation for their hard work. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that there are among them those who exploit the system of so-called special treatment of farmers, whether it relates to subsidies, grants or other benefits. Therefore, continuous and consistent monitoring is also needed in this area. Let me get back to the proposed novel. The fact is that the Government is also aware of the need to establish a longer transitional period and does not oppose the opposition proposal. A special working group in the Government found that the current method of calculation was generally appropriate, but that the methodology was extremely complex and opaque and therefore proposed an extension of the transitional period. But it is true that the government has not yet been able to draw up the necessary law. Yes, the opposition has overtaken the government, but this does not bother us Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. The content is acceptable to us, so we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Assuming that the bill is supported at this stage, we expect an in-depth debate and as broad a consensus as possible on the decisions taken. Let this law be an example of our ability to strain our species and to forget our clientship.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the area of agricultural policy, the current government has set itself a number of priorities. And one of the at least declared priorities is concern for the economic situation of the farmer. The economic situation of farmers is significantly affected by the country's regulation of taxes and contributions. In this area, however, the current government is acting in the opposite direction with its measures and is overburdening farmers. Let me mention only the real estate tax, which has now fallen in the Constitutional Court and the change in the cadastral land classifications, the determination of the base for the cadastral income, the increase in fuel excise duties, the abolition of excise duty refunds on biofuels and so on. The real area of cadastral income, which is the basis for the taxation of farmers, has substantially and fundamentally changed the established flat-rate taxation system for basic agricultural and basic forestry activities by the new Cadastral Income Act 2011. Instead of the cadastral classes, credit rating classes have been introduced, instead of the cadastral cultures, account has been taken of the actual use of land, instead of the cadastral districts, production areas, which are statistical regions, have been introduced. The system of calculations is extremely complex as the quantities of crops and prices and the technological standards of production must be taken into account. This system of calculations is based on statistical data, but with a purely technical approach and without appropriate corrections it can lead to absurd cadastral income calculations. Such results have been shown by last year's public decomposition of the cadastral income scale on new bases and the calculation of the cadastral income has been a multiple of the current cadastral income. Such a substantial increase in cadastral income would significantly increase the tax burden on farms and also significantly reduce farmers' rights to social transfers. The 2013 cadastral income assessment was therefore decided to limit the level of cadastral income to the level of the level of that income, or to a maximum of 10 %, by means of the amendment of the Cadastral Income Recognition Act. In the last summer, the Government adopted two Regulations relating to cadastral income, namely the Regulation on the establishment of cadastral income calculations and flat-rate income estimates on the heifer, and the Regulation on the establishment of cadastral income scales and flat-rate income estimates on the heifer for 2014. At the time of the adoption of both regulations, the Government imposed on the Ministry of Finance the obligation to prepare a new Act on the identification of cadastral income, which will limit the increase in cadastral income in the coming years by a maximum of 10 % per year. There is no such bill to be tabled by the Government in the parliamentary procedure. We're wondering what caused this. The new Cadastrian Income Law is absolutely necessary, as farms are once again exposed to uncertainty about the level of cadastral income for the following years, in order to avoid a recurrence of the situation last year. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposed proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Cadastrian Income Law, as the level of cadastral income must be legally limited for a period until new calculations are made, on new legal bases, which will be real and even fair. The legal limitation of the level of cadastral income for 2014 and 2015 to the level determined by the level of cadastral income for 2013 is necessary and meaningful and is therefore supported by Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Branko Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u50	Chairman, Secretary-General, Ministry, everyone's welcome! The cadastral income law was already in force in 2011 and the application was postponed to 30 June 2013, according to a period of three governments, not just the current one. The previous methodology for the determination of cadastral income was based on the data of the land cadastral reflecting actual land use and the cathartic class indicating the production capacity of the land. Instead of data on the cadastral class, the new methodology covers data on landworthiness. The new law of 2013 introduced a solution that will only apply in 2014, while for 2013 it was considered that all land which is more than 10 % higher than the new cadastral income calculated should be taken into account. New calculations should be made publicly available for next year through the Gursa application, no later than 20 September of the current year, no later than 20 September 2013. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia considers that the predictability of the amount of the contribution to be paid by a farmer on the basis of the cadastral income is important, as it is also possible for a farmer to decide on this basis how to determine the income of his basic activity. Therefore, it is also possible to decide between a flat-rate income assessment or on the basis of the management of accounting and the determination of cadastral income on the basis of actual income and expenditure. We also believe that it is necessary to ensure a certain period of time for the harmonisation and correction of the methodology, at which time the cadastral income would be charged as high as in 2013. But we are wondering what has been done so far to prepare the methodology? So everything since 2011 when the law began to apply or was postponed to 30 June 2013, with the amendment moved back to 2014 and today we do not have the right model. In particular, it should be simple and transparent. The quality of the input data is also problematic so that we do not repeat the property valuation story. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act will be supported by everything that is said in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! If the proposal for amendments to the Cadastrian Income Act, which we have drawn up in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is not adopted – but now shows that it will – this would mean that farmers will have to pay around €113 million of cadastral income in 2014 instead of 50, as much as the cadastral income paid in 2013. A double increase in KD would be a big blow for a Slovenian farmer. What do we want with the bill? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to set fair and proportionate tax burdens for the Slovenian farmer, thereby ensuring its existence and functioning in the future. The main solution is the provision of a transitional solution to determine KD for 2014 and 2015 in a way that will be the same as KD for 2013. We are also reducing the period during which Gurs has to verify the compliance of calculations with the level of productivity of agricultural and forestry activities in the Republic of Slovenia from five to three years. Why do we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the amendment of the law is absolutely necessary? In 2013, a law was adopted providing that Gurs, on the basis of the calculations in force on 15 April of the current year, taking into account the buying-in prices of crops, purchase prices, material costs and the purchase value of the basic assets for the last three years preceding the year in which the income is determined, shall draw up a proposal for KD scales and a proposal for a flat-rate assessment of income on board for the following year. However, the view is provided in the data on KD height for agricultural and forestry land. By 20 September of the current year, Gurs must also provide insight into the data on cadastral income calculated by KD scales for the following year. Therefore, the farmer should have the opportunity to take note of his future tax obligation in advance and decide how he will determine the income of his basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in the following year. Decisions shall be made on the basis of a flat-rate income assessment or on the basis of accounting management. However, Gurs has not yet provided insight into the data on KD, although he would be obliged to do so by 20 September last year. As a result of this fact, irreparable damage is currently caused as farmers have not received data on which they could opt for a method of determining KD. It is precisely the way one has the greatest impact on the calculation of taxation and, of course, consequently on the social situation of the farmer. Despite the means to implement agricultural policy measures that, while mitigating the problems of agricultural economies, the share of the costs in the revenue structure is increasing. The income of Slovenian farmers continues to decline and their social situation deteriorates. This is certainly affected by the general economic crisis reflected in the decline in agricultural prices. Agriculture is certainly a less profitable economic sector or activity and public support is, of course, necessary. It also reduces the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture due to the unpleasant age and education structure as well as the fragmented ownership structure. If I add an inadequate relationship in reproveriga and a lack of public awareness of the need for a Slovenian farmer and the importance of home-made food, then of course everything is clear. The country should do much more to improve the situation in agriculture. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we lack the appropriate agricultural policy measures; of course, I am talking about a vision of development, appropriate legislation and simplification of regulations. This is not all, so the economic and social situation of the farmer is deteriorating year after year. It is necessary to stop the threatening festivities of the countryside, which we must all be aware of. We expect agricultural policy actions from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. Today we only add pebbles to the mosaic of emergency measures. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cadastrian Income Law follows the principle of proportionality by adapting new calculations to real levels of income. We are pleased that the Ministry of Finance, in our proposal for a law, has recognized good solutions and that it will not be rejected simply because we are proposing Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. If we were to be followed more than once, the recovery of Slovenia would also be much faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u54	Your Honor, hello! The proposed law seeks to set fair and proportionate tax burdens for the Slovenian farmer, thereby ensuring its existence and functioning in the future. A solution is proposed to limit the level of cadastral income in 2014 and 2015 to the level of cadastral income as measured in 2013 and to follow the principle of proportionality by adjusting new calculations to real levels of income. We support the proposed purpose in the Group of Social Democrats. - Do you hear me?Oh, my God! – It is true that certain assumptions are based on misstatement of facts. It should be pointed out that for 2013, the cadastral income was determined by increasing the need to increase the cadastral income for the types of actual use where the calculations for 2014 indicated the need to increase the cadastral income. In the event that this increase was greater than 10% compared to 2012, it only increased by 10%. However, since the calculations for 2014 showed a reduction in the cadastral income relative to 2012, the cadastral income decreased to a calculated amount which could also be negative. The new methodology for the determination of cadastral income also established the possibility of determining negative income, saying losses. In any event, it should be pointed out that the applicant’s indication that the new calculations mean that farmers should pay around EUR 300 million of cadastral income for 2014. It should be noted that the cadastral income and flat-rate income assessment do not constitute a final tax obligation but rather a flat-rate income assessment, which is considered to be part of the tax base. The tax liability shall only be calculated for the taxpayers, taking into account the income scale and the total amount of taxable income attributed to the individual taxpayer. In addition to the fact that the calculations of flat-rate income from agricultural activities based on scales for 2014 do not in any way indicate 300 million but around EUR 113.7 million of total flat-rate income from which the activities of natural persons belong, only around EUR 93 million. Therefore, the flat-rate estimated income for 2014 is significantly lower than that mentioned by the applicant. However, the applicant submits that the 2013 transitional arrangement has further significantly reduced the total flat-rate revenue by around €47 million, even a quarter less than the flat-rate income in 2012, when it totalled around €63.7 million. In Social Democracy, we will support the law at first reading because the calculations of cadastral income based on the new methodology are problematic. This will need to be changed for a longer transitional period. By regulating the extension of the transitional period, the overall procedures for determining cadastral income shall be simplified by simply freezing the amounts of cadastral income to the state on 30 June 2013, which makes it no longer necessary to carry out new annual cadastral income calculations during the transitional period. At the same time, it is necessary to regulate the possibility for all parcels with the same type of use to be credited with comparable cadastral income during the transitional period, which should also regulate the possibility of determining cadastral income for newly created parcels and for plots to which actual use has changed. Thus, the law at first reading can be validated and duly corrected, and in second reading at the home work body, it can also be properly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, a respected colleague, a respected colleague! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is already 30. 8. 2013 The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Ministry of Finance and the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia commissioned them to establish an expert working group to verify the accuracy of the cadastral income calculations and to review the methodology and data used and to prepare the necessary amendments to the Cadastrian Income Law. Information calculations for the new methodology should be made available by 20 September 2013 at the latest for this year. Since these informational calculations have not yet been made, the proposal for a law that we have today under consideration foresees that the level of cadastral income is calculated in the same amount as it was done last year. There was an emergency, a temporary solution that would allow an emergency exit. In the Civil Gazette, we have to ask ourselves whether these emergency exits and temporary solutions may not become a constant on the subject of cadastral income. You know, it's temporary solutions that last the longest. In the Civil Code, we cannot agree to such action. We are also asked who is in the interest of not moving in this area. We are increasingly aware that there are strong lobbyes in Slovenian society that have good connections in politics and state bodies. We face the same problem in health care, the role of unions and elsewhere. We need a fair reform of the cadastral income system. The estimated yields in the tables accompanying the last amendment are mildly strange. Why, in the field of cadastral income, there are no changes in who negotiated the lowest rate in the falling real estate tax law, why it is virtually impossible to introduce excise duty on wine, and where the department is trying to set up some new state-owned companies in the last few days – and it is also clear. We expect from all ministers in the Civil Gazette, and in this case, in particular, from the Minister of Agriculture, Dr Dejan Židan, to carry out his work faithfully and to implement the legislation consistently – at least the legislation he himself has proposed. If changes are needed in the direction of greater justice, he should propose them. The Minister should pursue the interests of all citizens and not the interests of narrow local or other stakeholders, whether left, right or north-east. Rather than being concerned with writing ever-new, every time more complicated laws and setting up businesses, ministers should ensure that existing laws are consistently implemented and leave the rest to the economy and citizens. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will allow the proposal to be further improved in the future legislative path.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, he's got the word mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State and everyone else present, very nice greeting! The proposal for a law or amendment follows practically the Government's decision of 3. This year's 4th. Initially, I can conclude that Mr Tanko, the first to sign, has somehow borrowed, I will say, a government idea, but of course government conclusions are not intellectually protected as intellectual property, so it is not a problem. I will support this novel's proposal. However, as far as it is proposed that Gurs not every five years verify the consistency of calculations, but every three years, I warn or expect the response of the competent institutions, or perhaps there will be no financial consequences in this proposal, as it seems to me that the higher administrative costs and the additional burden on Gursa or any other institution would be. Here I expect an explanation or a response from the professional services. Otherwise, the proposal to freeze the new calculations or to introduce this methodology is practically logical. I myself understand this law as a novel with four chapters or a fourth sequel and an epilogue out of sight. And that is why it is possible that we are only in 2014 to repeat this chronology a little bit. This law was adopted in 2011 and, according to the new methodology, the cadastral income should be considered or calculated in 2012. At that time, under the then Janša government, we moved the matter again for one year because we found that the competent institutions had done virtually nothing. Then came the year 2013 and we had a new calculation methodology on the table and we found that this matter was not well done. There was also a lot of controversy between both the professional and political public, we had extraordinary meetings of the committee responsible, and we, on the other hand, set up a working group. And this working group has now concluded in 2014 that there is something really wrong with this methodology. The government or the opposition have decided that things may have to be moved again for a year or two. At this point, I draw attention to one operational incompetence, or our state institutions or policies. I think the Cadastrian Income Act is also a beautiful mirror of our country's reform incompetence. If any solution that is also possible for some part of the public is unpleasant; or if it is necessary to pour pure wine, we like to move it; or if it comes into the legislative process, the final product is too much compromise and too much exception. Last but not least, we were told by the Constitutional Court in the case of real estate tax. And now I'm going to tell you an anecdotes about it. Look, when the cadastral income scale came out, we set up a task force. We can also see from the Government's report that it has now found that the problematic quality of some input data can be that calculation is generally appropriate, but that the model is too demanding, too complicated and that it is possible to now consider another model. When I came out last summer, I wanted to try on a practical case whether the matter was fair or not. For coffee, I invited my neighbor, a Sisak hill farmer, who owns a medium or a small farm, and I said, if he can bring me his information, we'll do a calculation of how much he paid before and how much he'll pay after the new one. Yeah, yeah, I'd pay a lot more for my new model. But what was interesting was that this neighbor of mine who doesn't have a master's degree or any engineering skills, as experts in various working groups have, flew the matter quickly, and said to me: "Dear Katarina, tell Ljubljana that you can't grow more on the Sava hills than on the suburban hills, even if it's written by the Jew." I just wanted to say that it would take a little more healthy farmers of intelligence or faster, a little more courageous steps in our state institutions, within working groups and also in politics, and that the implementation of cadastral income would virtually not be delayed into the fifth, sixth year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you, too. Is Mr. Ljubo going to be the next debater? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I understand that you are in charge of the meeting, but I suppose we should intervene in such allegations that I, as the first to sign, borrowed a government idea. We have not borrowed anything in this case, but we have taken a logical step, because by September 20th last year, we should have gotten to the Gurs table six months ago. And there is no other choice – because the government coalition does nothing, including those who think the most logically – that we have taken this step, as we have done, to introduce a law with which we postpone and extend the deadline for introducing new taxation under the KD. If the critics of this proposal do not know that if this is not done, the taxation would jump about six times, then something is seriously wrong. And I think it's unworthy for anyone who discusses at this point in the agenda to blame anyone. There is no government proposal, we are not an integral part of the coalition negotiations, we have proposed a legal solution that is obviously acceptable. And I will not allow anyone to allow themselves to be so discredited by the marriage proposals we have tabled. This is similar to what happened when we introduced the Law on Agricultural Lands when we were conducting the quorum on the issue of comassation. There were also a number of charges at the time. And I would ask that the colleague who spoke before me and told you about my notions of offensive words be duly justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u61	With regard to your procedural proposal, however, I think it should be noted that you still have time as a proposal and can always respond to the claims of any of the Members and Members. As chairman, I also find it very difficult to assess whether someone has borrowed something or not. However, I know that we have already discussed the history of changes to this law in the National Assembly many times, both at the initiative of Members and at the initiative of the Government. Now, if I understand correctly, does the proposer want a word? Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I'd fix my colleague, too. She doesn't have the right information about the idea of this marriage. When we discussed the agriculture report for 2012 on the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, the Secretary of State mentioned what was also written in that it envisaged a cadastral income of around 120 million for 2014. At that time, I asked myself how 120 million would have been, given the law, if this amendment had not been made in 2013, a cadastral income would have been calculated on the basis of the calculation of the basic law of around 300 million. We have calculated in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as is our colleague in the neighbourhood, for an average farm of 12 hectares and some average working salary of the owner of such a farm, that according to the old calculation KD had to pay income of around 600 euros. According to the new calculations made by this law, this farmer should have paid EUR 2 000 300. This is said to be two to three wages at the end of a year's income, to pay income because it has so much land. Of course, no farm makes that much net income. That is why I asked the Secretary of State at the time that a similar law should come out for 2014 as well as for 2013 because otherwise it would be a disaster for farmers in 2015 when the income would be calculated. And I got the answer, "Yeah, what if this marriage doesn't exist?" During this time, the calculation bases were indeed changed, but these calculation bases are still, because we have written, there are 113.7 million, which is significantly more, which was charged according to the old one, where there were 63 million, or 47.8 million in 2013. Why so much less in 2013? Because the calculation of cadastral income for those cultures that were increased could only be increased by 10%. Thus, if the total increase was 10%, it would be 10% higher to 63 million and 47.8 million more. Why? Because the cadastral income was reduced to fields. So much less is paid by those farms that have more field areas, and there is also a problem in Prekmurje about insurance for farmers, because they have lost so much KD, which is also a basis for this. That's why it was only 47.8 million. And at the time, and in the customer, I thought that something had to be done, because in the event that nothing is done, KD will be very burdensome to all owners of agricultural land in the following year. And then we simply proposed that it should be extended until 2014 and 2015, because until then these bases need to be substantially changed. The first calculation showed 300 million; the next calculation made by the Commission showed a minus 60 million, which I think we have two thirds of agricultural land with limited farming factors, even the most equitable. Of course, this did not fit anyone, so a new calculation was made that showed about 150 million. And probably this calculation was the fourth one that was then official, showing 113 million, still significantly more than was calculated in 2013. I agree with the Secretary of State and welcome the fact that it simply freezes for 2014 and 2015 so that we do not deal with these calculations. But it is easy until the new methodology is established, it freezes and that the administration has no work on these calculations. My colleague, this was not the reason that we stole the idea of government, but our concern that nothing will be done and that this will affect farmers very much in 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you. Mag. Katarina Hochevar has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Look, I was very careful that I used the word "borrowed" and not "stolen," and Mr. Lach beat me to it. This is said to be how you would probably use this tummine if it were the other way around to be the government's side, and the opposition would have done it. But I just wanted to say that the government thought about this problem, or was familiar with it. By Decision of the Government of 3. On 4 this year, the Government ordered the Ministry of Finance to prepare a new law in order to extend this law or transitional period. And if the opposition hadn't come up with this proposal, then the Ministry of Finance would have – probably already done so if the government had a decision to carry out this task. And I just wanted to say that it doesn't matter who invests; solutions are important. Therefore, despite the opposition's coming, I will of course support the amendment. I hope that we will complement it in this legislative process, abrasion, or even a better solution; but we are all aware that it has to be adopted by 30. 6. 2014, no matter who proposes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you, too. But I give the word to Mr Ljub Žnidar and prepare yourself for the Mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u66	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The objective of the Cadastrian Income Act, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, has an exceptional financial impact. This effect is seen in the difference between the burden on agricultural land, the burden on Slovenian farms and the burden on the agricultural economy as a sector in this activity. The difference is between the estimated burden of 113.7 million and 48 million, as would be the case under this proposed law. The basis is that this law proposes that the level of cadastral income for 2014 and 2015 be limited to the level of cadastral income as measured in 2013. In fact, this law is essentially the principle of the proportionality of income, as far as it is possible to create them on a given land, and of what amount it is proportionately reasonable to tax that income. This is very important. It is important whether, on the basis of the taxation of farmers in the future, they can survive, to this end, to be proportional to those incomes which they can generate on this agricultural land, also to be relatively taxed. That's the essence of the KD law. But in the light of previous discussions, I would say that the actions are the ones that count, not the words. We know what the deadlines were, which were that Gurs should have given the data by 20 September of the previous year, and that was not the case. This proposal is concrete, which must come into force quickly. Of course, the Government will also follow these needs in this segment, so I believe that, on the basis of the good, professional and proportionate burden of Slovenian agriculture, the government will also understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you, too. I could get the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin, but he's not in the hall right now. The next could have been Mr Matevž Frangež, and he is also not in the Chamber. Then it's mag. Jana Jenko. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor. But get ready, Mr. Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! As we have predicted in our position in the New Slovenia Group, of course we will support this amendment of the law. Although the new system for calculating cadastral income has been known since February 2011, when a new law establishing cadastral income has been adopted. But I often say that I am interested in things that work; I am interested in how the law works, and also in those who are committed to cadastral income. As long as there are no exact accounts until farmers get and get the exact calculations of the cadastral income, they don't really know what the new law has brought. We then, for example, remember, made a comparison for the cadastral income, specifically in Prekmurje – in Lendavské Gorica, or if you want in Prekmurski Gorica – and found that with the new law of February 2011, the cadastral income for vineyards increased by a factor of 5, that is 500 percent. Of course, when this information came to farmers, farmers decided to cut vineyards. I'm not talking about it. You can look, specifically, at the Lendava Mountains. Sometimes – I don't know if it's still – the largest complex of broken vineyards in Slovenia counted about 620 hectares, today we have to say minus about 150 hectares. It is true, I want to be honest, not only because of the new law of February 2011, but also because there are reasons here. It is before us and, above all, before the government, the task is likely to be necessary if we really want to work on food supply, which is what Minister Židan often likes to repeat, then we must certainly establish such an environment in this country. And the environment is also a tax environment. And we will probably have to consider whether it is in the future, given that we are prolonging the existing cadastral income, that we will have to consider in the future what to do with the calculation of cadastral income, with such a methodology that will be stimulating. Today in Slovenia we also face the fact that young generations simply do not hope to take over the farm. I don't know why it's so interesting to grow in Switzerland, Austria, but, of course, we have changes affecting the agricultural environment, in agricultural production – and these changes have a very high frequency, because we Members can't actually follow how many legal changes there are that are tanning farmers or agricultural production. And when these changes happen so quickly, of course – and this is true – some unstable environment is created when young generations are having difficulty deciding whether to take over the farm and actually continue in fact following the agricultural strategy that was once written by the first Minister for Agriculture in Free Slovenia, Dr Jože Osterc. I think that, for today, this agricultural development strategy is still in place. I found this book myself in the library of the National Assembly and made photocopies and there is a very valuable document in my own library because I support his position — these are family farms. I think that in Slovenia, according to history, according to the postwar period, we know what our relationship was to agriculture. I think that family farms have a certain perspective and that we should build on it and that the legislator should also create an attractive environment for agricultural production, for food production. Agricultural activity, in my view, is not just an economic activity, I think, is something more. Agriculture actually cares about our, I'd say, cultural landscape. And I think we should be careful if we're saying that we have a nice, green, orderly nature in our country. It probably doesn't come from itself, that nature needs to be maintained, nurtured. Here the Slovenian farmers have an extremely important mission, and in some ways they need to be, I will not say reward, but stimulate. In the field of cadastral income – and thus concluding my thinking – it will be necessary to do a rather difficult domestic task, otherwise we will always face only if we simply postpone the implementation of the cadastral income law from February 2011. The fact that we are moving it means, in fact, that the solutions are bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor and Mr Jakob Preseknik is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Pavlišič. Proposer, you want to speak to Mr. Pavlišič? Mr. Bell Lah, as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I went upstairs to ask my questions, and there was something else I could add to that loan. By the way, 27. 1. I asked the following oral question to Minister Cuffer: "I wonder how the cadastral income will be accounted for in 2014?" 27. 1. And in response to my failure to read fully what he was saying to me, it was Mr Minister's last reply when I warned him that by 20 June of this year, the bill for this year must be passed, the Minister replied, "I would like to thank you for the warning, and we will check if our numbers are correct." Who borrowed it from who? I warned the minister that it was necessary to do so, and the minister thanked him for the warning. Then it's 3. 4. The government has decided that something should be done to ensure that this matter does not remain. Besides, we didn't borrow it, because if you borrow it, you have to get it back. But if you steal, you don't return anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you for your words and thank you, Mr Lah, for bringing this up. Mr. Secretary has already thanked you for this, too, so I think you've done your job well. And I also agree with exploring whether it was a loan or a theft. It depends on whether Mr. Tanko thinks to bring it back or not. But that's what you two are talking about in the mission group. Let me repeat this chronology that colleague Katarina has already mentioned. In 2011, we passed the law, and in 2012 it should be implemented and not implemented. In 2013, there was a new methodology and in 2014 we found that something was wrong. And now the logical question that Slovenian citizens are asking themselves here is how many governments we need to do nothing. The answer in this case clearly shows that at least three governments. There's something to be done here, and I hope we can do something about it in a short time, because it won't work that long. As I have mentioned many times in the debates we have had on tax legislation, I will reiterate. The objective of any tax legislation should be that people pay taxes with pleasure. That should be our goal. And people will be happy to pay taxes when the tax burden is fair and they are convinced that the money collected is fair and efficient. It's so simple. This is obviously not the case, so this needs to be changed. However, there is a question that I would like to receive an answer from the representatives of the Ministry. As far as I know, the income from agriculture can be paid in two ways; either as a cadastral income, the taxation of cadastral income flatly on some scales that have already been mentioned today; or on the basis of financial statements, if the farmer so decides. Here I am interested in whether there is any analysis and any assessment of how many derogations there are for those who choose to do so as farmers and accountants, and on the basis of that, to pay the tax, how much they would pay if they did not decide to book, if they chose only farming and would pay on the basis of cadastral income and on these scales. Because this then somehow shows us clearly whether it is a fair system, whether it is about appropriate or equal taxation, either in one way or another. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor to prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, this Cadastrian Income Act has had a beard for quite a long time, as we can see, it was amended in 2011, then corrected, because it was found that it could not be brought to life. Last year we, I think, in the spring months, in our Group of Members requested an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance, where we prepared that decision, which was then adopted, by a maximum of 10% increase in KD in the event that this increase was increased; otherwise, what was then calculated according to some methodology. Of course, I would expect until there is some proven methodology that will go forward with this process. That's why I welcome this law. I hope that even if that were not the case, the government would probably come up with a similar solution. I've always been thinking about the good, ever since I've been in this house, I haven't criticized for the back and I've been looking for the reasons for the back, but the matter has always to be solved. We also sat long before yesterday on the subject of cohesion in municipal waters, in water supply and so on in various municipalities, where there were also desires to determine when errors were made back in the congregations, in governments, and so on. The desire and purpose of the Committee, whose urgent meeting we requested, were to find a solution for the future. I think it's the right method. In this respect, the KD, around agriculture, is a fact, in the last period, quite a few clouds have come over it. Of this projected property tax, whose fate we know, this KD, which most hit last spring, seems to me, is now a bit mixed up by these years, but last spring, as was said earlier, when there were as many as 10 times the increase in the methodology that is obviously not real. The threat of materially large contributions to health insurance, irritation – last time I was explained – insurance for complementary activities on farms; that is to say, all of these are put at risk by many farmers or those engaged in agricultural activities. And what my colleague Horvath said before nicely, they are doubting mainly the future young takers of the farm; whether it is at all worth it or not. When I also read the government's opinion – we have also received it in these days – it seems to me that we will also be using working groups that have been mentioned and criticized a few times before, to actually lean on some way of taxation and everything in the broader sense of the word, on some solutions in some countries, such as Austria. At this meeting of the committee, we also tried to show solutions on an Austrian model. I think that these countries, which are similar to ours, have relatively good solutions. I'm not saying that you can just copy because there are different factors that also affect the whole thing, but many solutions can be adapted to our own. In this case, of course, it is a matter of whether a flat rate is taken also in taxation — some flat rates. I am also in favour of the Polish group, as well as one law in this regard we have tabled for entrepreneurs to carry out flat-rate taxation as far as possible. In this way, there is a significantly lower burden on different costs, such as accounting management costs specifically in this case. Whether it is also a flat-rate farm, a decision or a bookkeeping operation, the owners of farms or agricultural land must know in due time. However, we are in particular in this problem due to the extremely large problem of input data. As demonstrated in the Real Estate Tax Act, the biggest problem is certainly the entry data and also the unregulated data we have as property owners. Even as owners, we certainly bear part of the blame for the fact that these input data are not correct many times. But in this case, the input data is certainly the ones that literally burned the model or made it no longer usable. For this reason, the main task of all the institutions of the State is to first settle these matters, and I therefore welcome the fact that we have done the same thing last year to extend this. I think the Government – I read quickly – is proposing even a further extension for one year. There will certainly be more talks on this in the second reading. Therefore, as we have announced in the opinion of the parliamentary group, I will also support the proposal of this law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you, too. The word is from a representative of the Magi Government. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. A couple of answers or answers to questions that have been asked so far. First of all, as far as the government's own procedure is concerned. In view of last year's developments, I have already warned or said in my opening remarks that the Government has set up a special expert working group to propose how to proceed. The Ministry of Finance, as the responsible coordinator for the Cadastrian Income Law, received this report at the beginning of March and, on the basis of this report, it was only possible to agree or conclude the directions in which the proposal would be amended. In the meantime, we also had a discussion with the interested public. For this reason, the draft law was practically prepared at the same time as we received a proposal to convene this meeting of the National Assembly with a Parliamentary Law on it, and then decided to withdraw the bill from the next procedure and to join this legislative process; also because we are aware that the legislative issue must be regulated by 30. 6. if we want to achieve the intended effects. As regards the cadastral income itself, once again, I stress the need to distinguish precisely between the method of determining cadastral income and the taxation of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. The identification of cadastral income means a method of determining income or potential income, which, on the one hand, may be the basis for calculating taxes, contributions; at the same time, the basis for obtaining different rights such as social transfers. Data show that 84% of all households that achieved cadastral income of less than €200 in 2012 in Slovenia paid no taxes on this cadastral income at all. This share is also the same for 2013 and we do not expect any major change. Where the method of determining cadastral income is defined as a method of some flat-rate arrangement, it shall be taken into account: the potential income that can be achieved by a particular culture in a particular area and the average costs necessary to produce something on that land or in the forest to obtain a certain income. There are two other methods of determining the tax base from which the income is taxed in addition to the cadastral income. One is to actually identify actual revenue and expenditure is estimated flat-rate, because of its specificity, higher flat-rate expenditure on agriculture has been recognised at all times than in other activities. Since last year, 70 % of revenue has been recognised as expenditure or as tax-recognised expenditure. However, the third method of identification is the full management of the bookkeeping, the actual revenue is determined as well as the actual costs. Since compulsory accounting is determined only this year, comparisons as requested by Mr Pavlisic cannot be made at this time. In the past, individual farms have already opted for bookkeeping; especially those farms that have also decided to voluntarily apply for value added tax and thus enforce both the deduction of entry VAT on the one hand and the higher costs of any investment they wished to make in their territory or on their land. For this reason, accounting was primarily decided by those farmers who saw in this benefit the determination of the tax base from the cadastral income. In this debate and underlining the importance of the cadastral income as a flat-rate income assessment, I would also like to draw attention to the Constitutional Court judgment adopted in connection with the attributable of subsidies to the cadastral income for the determination of the tax base, where the Constitutional Court found that flat-rate imputation of subsidies is not a suitable method if we have available data on the actual revenues achieved by each undertaking. Therefore, caution should also be exercised when we are talking about establishing a tax base by flattening with the help of cadastral income, and it is important to think very carefully about where the border should be set. One more word about the methodology itself. Methodology was developed in 2008, 2009, 2010. Not within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance, but in cooperation or under the guidance of the Biotechnical Faculty and with the participation of the entire interested public. And the methodology that was prepared for the law that was applied in 2011 and was expected to enter into force then in 2012 and later in 2013 was harmonised at this level. However, given what I have already mentioned in the introduction, since the old methodology is so outdated and represents large deviations from the real situation, any intervention in the methodology - whatever it will be, even in the future, if anything changes on the methodology - will mean an increase in estimated potential market income for individual land and a reduction for other land. However, this must be addressed if we want to eliminate the anomalies contained in the old system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you, too. Mr. Zvonko Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since this committee has already met, I think, six times, seven times, and there are no other results, I would like to say our client's position on the methodology. If we look at the cases in Germany and Austria; in Germany, the methodology has not changed since 1964 and this methodology is based on the estimated average possible yield of land. Therefore, in our party we are also committed to calculating the average possible yield of individual land, not that the cadastral income depends on individual cultures. Because if cultures change, then income changes and calculations are needed. In Austria, the production capacity of land is also the basis; for the property tax, the value of the agricultural holding is the basis. This single value of the agricultural holding is calculated on the basis of the production capacity of the land. Here too is the production capacity of the land. I think this is the right thing to do, and we suggest that this is also the case with us, that we do not need so many administrative matters and bureaucracy in this area. At least in our case, we find that this KD, which was calculated for the previous year – 47.8 million, has such a small impact on income calculation, that the question is that if we do not spend any more costs to account for all of this together, as long as we then collect income on this account; how much do we need experts and work with these calculations. Therefore, it would be appropriate to take up some productive capacity of land, as this does not change. We have credit rating classes, it's determined, and then it's kind of a stop. However, if income is substantially increased due to new technologies and the new method of farming, this is only corrected every so many years. We are so well known in our country that we are even more complicated than we need to be more papal to the pope. Why not follow the example of neighbouring countries, comparable to that of agriculture, or we are still on the worse side. Of these two-thirds of agricultural land, which cannot be in any way competitive with foreign countries, because they are limited farming factors and the real KD is rather negative than positive, we are dealing with some calculations that cost so much and so much. Of that one-third, where I think the KD is positive and the owners are supposed to pay taxes or income, again, the question is how much d’s if we are purely real. And then we wonder why we have such self-care, why agricultural land is growing, why the number of farms is falling. On our agricultural land it is not possible to increase farms indefinitely, because it is simply not possible for agricultural land and farming. Foreignly, there can be a farm of more than 100 hectares in Gorenjska, Prekmurje. On most surfaces of Slovenia, however, this is not possible. We also have self-sustainment to do so. I have repeatedly asked the Minister of Agriculture and those dealing with agricultural policy, what and when we will do to reverse the pattern of agricultural land growth and what measures we will take. Attempts so far, real estate tax, agricultural land, agricultural buildings and so much more KD – this will only result in a further abandonment of agricultural land. The late Franz Zagozhen came to the board, already very sick, and told him that he had handed over to his son the farm which he now wants to return to him because there is no income on the farm. Although cadastral income is a matter of the Ministry of Finance, it is closely linked to the Ministry of Agriculture. When I wanted to ask the question of calculation, the question sent to Minister Židan, he replied that this was not their area, that I had to turn to the Ministry of Finance. In 2006, the Minister of Agriculture accepted these calculations, and the Ministry of Agriculture adopted them. The Ministry of Defence or Education probably won't accept this calculation. And this must be the Ministry of Agriculture's concern. We or the government now want to collect as much as possible from the poor farmers at the expense of agricultural land, for somehow they will survive. They're gonna plant a bunch of more potatoes. It doesn't go on forever. I also asked the question, which is already emerging, what if, at the death of an agricultural landowner who is too burdened with taxes and will not pay that much income, no one will sign to take over the estate. Then whose property is this? We have in the White Region a municipality, the largest farmer, because in the province it received the agricultural land back at the expense of the payment of the care at the home of the elderly. I myself, as mayor, have been in the provincial debates several times, where the municipality has the right to this property as a priority. It's the easiest thing to do. If the land doesn't give you anything, it doesn't give you any income, you have more expenses than profits with it, you give it to the congregation, and you go home. In the end, let the congregation get this land and rule it. We have a lot of these lands. There's no point in putting too much pressure on agricultural land, we should be driving some other policy. And it doesn't make any sense to put too much pressure on how we charge those euro and spend it again. Therefore, I am pleased that the government supports our law, that it still wishes to simplify it in some way for these years. However, I would like to point out that this methodology should also be simplified and look across the border, where it has been well regulated for decades. We are practically coming from the same pool, so I hope that these amendments in the second reading will be adopted as soon as possible in the following month and that this law will be adopted in a timely manner. However, I must say that certain damage has been caused to some farmers, because if they have calculated KDs after these calculation scales, many of these 113 million, I think this base, which is so much higher, has shown cadastral income of more than EUR 7 000 500. And he was forced to go to bookkeeping by law. Now, with this law, its cadastral income will be significantly lower, below that limit, and it would not be necessary. That is to say, if this were accepted, since last year we discussed when this law was adopted, that there was a need to adopt a law by 20 September for 2014 on the Committee when it was adopted for 2013; and this was not done by 20 September, and that is why farmers had incorrect data for this year. However, this damage is significantly lower than if this adoption had not taken place at all. Because that would be a big burden then in 2015. Our opinion is also that this Commission and the Government should adopt a new methodology by this year or next year by September, so that the new methodology can be applied already in 2016, so that you have plenty of time. The time is until 20 September of the following year for the calculation of KD 2016. So we don't think it's necessary, but if you think it's so complicated that you need more than a year or a year and a half to accept it, then let it be; it's still better than nothing that's accepted. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor and Mr Jože Tanko is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. A new Act on the identification of cadastral income, which entered into force in June 2013, provided for Gurs to prepare each year a proposal for cadastral income scales and a proposal for a flat-rate income assessment for the next year. In this way, farmers would be allowed in advance to familiarise themselves with their future tax obligation and decide on how they will identify their incomes on their basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in the following year; or on the basis of a flat-rate income assessment, i.e. cadastral income; or on the basis of accounting management and income recognition, taking into account actual income and standardised expenditure or actual income and actual expenditure. We note that Gurs did not provide any insight into the data on cadastral income until the day of the deposit — that is, by the time we introduced the law — and he has not done so to date. While this may be understandable, you have burdened the Geodetic Authority with other matters, the failed Real Estate Tax Act. You're already asking farmers to monitor the changes in legislation, burdening them with new taxes, carriers. If the property tax had been imposed, even with a new tax which would have been substantially higher than it had been paid so far. At the same time, we find that practically daily farms are shutting down, that farmers leave agriculture, that it is increasingly less farmed land. At the same time, the minister’s pyr campaign is not much help when it devotes a large amount of resources to advertising domestic food – that is to say that we are buying domestic food because it will soon be gone, and there will soon be no more farmers. As already mentioned, the number of farms is decreasing, the number of farmland is decreasing, sometimes the fields are growing and so on. And if we picked up €50 million from this title last year, you expect €300 million from farmers who, as it is said, are already barely breaking and barely paying the commitments they have. If we leave this to natural disasters, droughts, floods, the last time we had a debate on this subject, or the Global Council, where we found that practically every year these risks are increasing, that there is more drought, that there is more flooding, that the climate is becoming less favourable or more problematic for food production, that is, for land processing and for farmers. I will, of course, support our novel, because in this way it would mean a relief. Of course, you don't want to hear anything about stress, but you're just putting extra pressure on it; with every new change, you're putting extra pressure on someone with every new regulation. If we don't adopt the novelty of this law, we're going to put an extra burden on the farmers. It is clear that you are predicting very favourable inflows to the budget under these headings, although the figures also show much different, i.e. less revenue than you predict and count on them. Therefore, I propose or would make sense to support the amendment of the law in order to support our solutions and our proposals. And if you really want the good of our agriculture, if you want there to be any more farms and even some farmers who will work and make sure that our self-sustainment increases – for once in particular, it decreases – then you should give this novel your yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Mrs Jeraeva did not understand me very well when I spoke before, but in the position of the Group of Members. It has been made clear that the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will support your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor, and Mrs Iva Dimic is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. The characteristic of our space is that we deal with problems only partially. I think we should have a strategy on the table today in the field of agriculture, then a umbrella document and in this strategy written measures to achieve certain objectives. Unfortunately, we do not have such a document, and then the government comes with partial solutions, and on the basis of these partial solutions, there is an attempt to make a story about how certain measures are needed to achieve certain things or certain objectives. This cannot be done in such a way, and I think that, above all, I should leave today's meeting to address the third item of the agenda of the appeal to the government to prepare a review of what the Ministry of Agriculture wants to achieve on individual segments; and, on this basis, to anticipate steps, objectives and solutions. Without doing anything important in the field of agriculture, we have stumbled into this segment twice in the short term. Once through the real estate tax, where the government has additionally foreseen the taxation of agricultural land and agricultural property, and the second part by increasing the tax on cadastral income, where increases have generally increased in certain segments and enormous increases in the burden of agricultural land or individual crops in certain segments. The specific case of the Cadastrian Income Act concerns not only finance and the budget, but it concerns, to the same extent or even more, part of the agricultural segment. I think the Minister or the Ministry of Agriculture should be sitting here in addition to the Ministry of Finance. We must in some way define what we want with Slovenian land, what we want from this Slovenian country. We need to know what kind of farms we want, we need to know what the country can contribute in this area of agricultural policies – including with the resources and also with the institutions it has. After all, part of agricultural production can be covered in stocks and this segment is extremely weak in some areas. If we want to preserve the agricultural land, if we want to preserve the production or economy of the agricultural land product, then certain agricultural operations in this area must also be carried out. We don't have or have very little presence of agromeliorations, comas. We have a very small presence of aid for the technological training of farms, such as in the areas of water, water supply, and certain cultures, but we are putting an enormous burden on this agricultural segment. Even in the most banal cases, such as wood harvesting, which has been practically very easy so far, we introduce new bureaucratic instruments, bureaucratic barriers that require those who, for example, will regulate the forest, clean the forest, cut in the forest, an additional document called the carrier, as well as additional restrictions on the quantity of transport, single transport from the forest. I do not think that Slovenian agriculture needs such obstacles. From someone who has, say, 30 hectares of forest and deals with it regularly, it is impossible and pointless to expect that every time he goes into the forest and brings wood for the first time, he will have a forest transporter in his pocket. In the absence of this document, the penalty is between €5,000 and €50,000, and it takes 6 cubic metres, if it leads the best forests in the ranges, it is €600. The penalty at the lower limit is ten times higher than the value of what it drives. And we, with such banal interventions into agriculture, are working agriculture in an unpredictable way, we are trying with restrictive measures and with enormous penalties to disable or remove all those who might still have a desire to grow in this area. Something similar is happening in the field of winemaking. Two or three days ago, I asked the minister about the question in the House because the penalty for not reporting must crops is the same as the value of an annual crop. These are not punishments that are normal, they are not punishments that are educational — they are punishments that destroy. Therefore, I think it would be reasonable for the Government to draw up a strategy, foresee measures, foresee solutions, write down targets and then go on to solve or take these individual measures. And so we're just going somewhere, the government is taking something, we're taking some time-consuming hands, but we don't have a comprehensive picture and an idea of how the whole agricultural sector, which is becoming less and less perceptive, would be regulated in general. Everyone in agriculture sees only some source of taxation and no source for the state to do anything in the areas of improving agricultural use, improving agricultural structure, improving farms, introducing modern technologies and so on. Some of this is, but a large majority is in the red area, it is said that things are actually falling and production is decreasing and prospects are falling significantly. As a source of taxation, the farmer has no place to live because of the nature of his basic asset. If he has land, it's located and he has nowhere to go. If he's got a farm facility, he's got nowhere to go. An industrialist, an economist can move into a more favourable business environment, move production and go, open a company elsewhere, abroad and so on, but ensure business through an external firm. In agriculture, that's almost impossible. Farmers are small, the land is scattered, commotion and other procedures are unstimulated because these operations in Slovenia are very few, and problems in this area are only increasing. I think that in cases where the government needs anything, it should seek its resources elsewhere – in poor government management of state property, in better recovery of what was somehow frozen through state institutions and with deferred hands left behind, and then this recovery did not take place because they went to bankruptcy. And a lot of other things. It would be much better to look for these reserves in Slovenian banks, because, as we see, nothing concrete is happening, except that the Government, together with Banka Slovenije, is just pouring additional funds into the banking system. Three times as much as the return of the state treasury from the source of the cadastral income is foreseen, only Bank Celje will drink with a single deposit, and 160 million euros will be given to the bank in order not to fail. And we expect €50 million from this agricultural sector. In this area, I think it is really necessary to ask the Government and the Minister of Staff to draw up a comprehensive picture of the area in which the measures will also be envisaged. Only after we have this can the government accept some proposals for stimulation or burden. In these specific cases, which I have listed, we are witnessing only restrictions. The real estate tax, the burden on agricultural areas – just foreseen, the cadastral income – is projected to increase enormously. All the legislation that has been amended in the agricultural sector this year brings a substantial increase in penalties, let it be the Wine Act, let it be the Forest Act, let it be the I do not know any, the Nature Conservation Act, for example. It's an extraordinary punishment for those who commit some kind of indiscretion. The penalty in agriculture is the same or higher as for the worst tax offences under the Tax Procedure Act. This is the fate of the Slovenian farmer and agriculture. I therefore propose that this proposal be supported by the extension of this transitional period and that a comprehensive review of agricultural ambitions and desires be prepared at that time. It is said that what we want is stimulated, we prepare measures, we take them, we give appropriate state support, and then we see what remains if we want to raise this self-sustainment in selected areas, so that it may be taxed further. Otherwise, it is only the basis for additional erosion in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you, too. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, I would like to respond to the statement that we want to raise €50 million in the agricultural sector with catastronomic income. Once again, I would like to point out that the cadastral income means determining the basis from which the tax is charged. However, the tax shall be calculated on the basis of this base, the other income achieved by the individual taxpayer for income, and taking into account or deducting all those benefits and tax reductions, as also applicable to other taxable persons. Therefore, it is not appropriate to talk about the burden on the agriculture sector of EUR 50 million, but we note that the basis from which the tax is actually charged was the same in 2012 – 52 million euros and in 2013 this base was EUR 40 million. After a rapid framework calculation, we can see that about €13 million of this revenue was paid for, of course, together with 50 % of the subsidies actually received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor and Mr Robert Hrovat is preparing. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! We have been Members of the Qatari Income Law since 2011. I think it's been a pretty, long time that we're not exactly proud of, but maybe more embarrassed that we can't do this in four years. In particular because it leaves all of this in some way to the farmer and further exposes them to uncertainty about the very height of the cadastral income for the following years. We need to know that their base is also considered to be the calculation of social transfers, which unfortunately are falling slightly each year and taxes are rising. And just as the forecast of the new cadastral income was very controversial in 2012 in the National Assembly, it has raised a great deal of concern for farmers or owners of agricultural land, which is not good for Slovenian agriculture to be disturbed in some way by such tax burdens. I think that the development of agriculture for all of us, especially for the Government, should be in the interest of somehow defining what we will do in the field of agriculture in the country; or whether we will focus on livestock, on forestry. At present, in government circles there is a very active and very up-to-date area of forestry, whether we are going to focus on livestock, pigs – we know that we are bad in this area. All this hangs in the air indirectly also because of the cadastral income. Here I would like to draw attention to another particular area, in the further methodology for the calculation of cadastral income, I call on you to also take into account natural disasters such as snow, wind and stomachs. Just in the past months, in January and February, it has caused such a natural disaster that it will probably be difficult in some way, perhaps the Ministry of Finance, to calculate some level of cadastral income. Because you will have to realize that those owners who have been affected will not be able to draw twenty to fifty years of nothing from this forest. I speak from my own experience, from my own field. In Notranj, forests are literally impoverished. On the five hectares of the forest, a farmer was informed, with three spruce and five beeches. I therefore call on the Government to take into account the methodology of snowfall, windstorms, acorns, or all natural disasters, before they need to be extended again for a year or two of existing legislation, so that there is nothing to be done. And as far as I'm concerned, my predecessors, it's not so direct, it's the area of finance, because you didn't accept it, but the penalties go into the area of finance. However, I will only touch carriers that have suddenly become irrelevant in the event of a natural disaster, that they have indeed gone to the area of the physical owners of the forests, and, as always, I warn that very little punishment has been issued in the report we received. Some 2,000 euros out of this and a few cubic metres of wood has been seized and has not yet been sold at a public auction. It is unnecessary for such matters to be burdened indirectly by farmers. I think it is really in the interest of all of us to encourage this, but I would almost say that I personally find it unwarranted to wait until deadlines to prepare new legislation on the determination of cadastral income. Knowing that things aren't going well, waiting for four years, that this is irresponsible work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we have talked a lot or heard a lot about chronology, how the law has been prepared, since when it has been valid, how things have been going and so on. But the methodology is more important. Here are those responsible for this, so the government has failed the exam. The group of experts appointed by the Government itself notes that the methodology is problematic in order to change it. I really want these changes to happen as soon as possible. Our intention, too, is now to allow this law, which we are considering today, to go through for two years, in order to speed things up a little bit in the preparation of the methodology. Now the government says it takes another year to get to this methodology. All right, we're not going to argue with that; but the fact is, we'd expect a little more. Look, the burden of farmers in recent years is abnormal. In view of all the developments in this mandate or at this time since I or I am – the Slovenian Democratic Party in the opposition, I would say that Slovenian farmers are actually lucky to have one party fighting for them. Look, I'll say real estate tax, constitutional judgment. This was a constitutional assessment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The law fell. Thank God he fell because he would actually force the farmers against the wall; and it is right that he fell. Then this KD law today, the difference would have been over 60 million, more money would have been collected from Slovenian farmers if we had not brought today's law into Parliament. Remember the Forest Act. Transporters. We have written a law, a specific law that was first rejected, then in the second, and in the next phase, taken literally and adopted in the National Assembly, that carriers, those infamous carriers, are no longer at this time. The burden of the Slovenian farmer must end. And here's a really big responsibility at the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, I would say that experts from the Ministry of Agriculture should also cooperate here, which will prepare methodologies to actually once come to the law and methodology, which will, in particular, rightly intervene in the incomes of Slovenian farmers. So if I sum up, if there were no such proposal today, Slovenian farmers would pay more than €60 million more than they will pay now if you really support it in the coalition. And I thank all the coalition parties that have today supported the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party law, because this means that the time has finally come when we will no longer look at who the opposition is, the coalition; but that we will step together and do something for the Slovenian farmer. That's what this is all about. And thank you all for supporting our bill, and I recommend to the government that it come as soon as possible with a new methodology, that we tax the Slovenian farmer in a fair manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you, too. A representative of the government may have the word at the moment if she wishes. He doesn't want to. I'm asking the proposer if he wants a word? He doesn't want to. I take it that all the debaters you wanted to discuss got the floor. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. At the same time, I would also like to point out that I would like to discuss at this stage either the proposing or the representative of the government to show this with interest at this point as well. Right now it's an interest from Horvath. We can determine five minutes. Is the government interested at this stage? Okay, we'll take that into account. I propose that you express your interest in the debate under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. He's got five minutes for every debater. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. President, for your opportunity. I am very pleased that we have this debate, which may not touch so much cadastral income and tax legislation, but, in fact, agriculture in general. I spoke earlier about the Agriculture Development Programme, which is an extremely valuable document that was signed by Dr. Jože Osterc in August 1990 in front of the plebiscite. He was the minister from the quota of the then Slovenian Christian Democrats and I believe he was the best or one of the best agricultural ministers. This document is indeed extremely valuable and would also be proposed to the current Minister, Mr Židan, to summarize it, to update it a little and we have a new, very good strategic document on agricultural development. Among the eight goals, Osterc placed the highest rate of self-sustainment in the first place. I am aware, and we are aware, of the MEPs and Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, that political sovereignty is not without the provision of food production, which is a key strategic raw material. At that time, Peterlet's government's goal, if I may look back a little bit, was the target of at least 80% self-sustainment. By making the right decisions at that time, they managed to maintain production at a level that provided more than 80% of the self-sustainment rate at the time of independence and to create the necessary reserves. Inadequate – or I will say so – over the last 15 years or so, we have all believed together in globalisation and also the liberalisation of food markets. In particular, they both destroyed farming in small farms and semi-farms. Inadequate support for agriculture has also contributed to the decline of the reputation of agriculture and farmers in the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The reputation of a farmer, agriculture and domestic food, respected colleagues and colleagues, must be re-emerged if we are to increase production and self-sustainment with adequate support and strengthen our sovereignty. This is about sovereignty. The President of the Government speaks of some other sovereignty or sovereignty in some other way. Agriculture, as I have already said in my initial debate, is not just food production. The English word says a lot – agriculture – says farming is more than food production. Agriculture is therefore a culture of soil cultivation, vegetable food production and animal farming. Everything must take place at an appropriate ethical level, towards which the world is becoming more difficult and supportive. This kind of farming is sonar, it's sustainable. Throughout history, Slovenian man has farmed culturally and thus shaped a cultural landscape that we are proud of and admired by the whole world. And we want to keep it. Because of this method of farming, we have maintained all-rounded diversity and also great biodiversity, which are invaluable values and we are increasingly aware of them and we need to preserve them for our children. For Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues, in my firm belief, only on family farms is agriculture based. Here is the emphasis on family and farm – family farm. There are increasing signs that even in the European Union they are aware of the importance of small farms and will be given greater attention in the coming years, at least so we hope. This shows that it will be easier to correct the mistakes we have made in recent years, if that is what we want. However, the revised agricultural policy will not succeed unless we have a permanent and decisive approach to raising awareness of the universal importance of agriculture for our sovereignty, the preservation of cultural landscape and Slovenian identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr Kavtičnik and Stepišnik, however, encouraged me a little bit to take the time to attend the congress, and yet. Nevertheless, I will say some of my thoughts, perhaps a little more from a philosophical point of view, not quite specifically. In particular, this law is necessary. The additional burden is no longer on the farmer, nor on the economy, nor on the population. We need to start adopting laws, not keeping burdens, but reducing them. I would say, let us try to philosophically ask ourselves how the neighbouring Austria is truly successful in all areas, according to all the indicators, even in the field of agriculture. And when I say that we made the northeast part of Slovenia German, we – Slovenians; that Hitler failed in 1941, that is proof. That's yesterday's dinner. Eight hundred brands, 200 stores and we're invited to the nearby town of Graz. Maribor and its surroundings are much closer to Graz than Ljubljana. We're gonna have to face some reality and start doing something different. But I will say in concrete terms what I think is different, and this law will not save this. I've been moving around the field a lot, and I've recently been in the agricultural advisory service, one of the field services, where there are six agricultural advisers. What is the key purpose of agricultural advisers? Yeah, of course they're walking around the field to advise them to help farmers. 90% of the time must be in the offices because we have so rounded up the agricultural sector. It's a waste of money. People say honestly, we're farm engineers, it's not our job, we'd like to work with farmers. Another information, according to some data - perhaps the lady from the Ministry of Agriculture will deny it, then she will say another number - is 70% of the funds allocated to support agriculture for so-called agricultural bureaucracy. Much too much; even if it goes 40%, it's too much. Next, the farmer system – the customer does not work. We have created a strange system when we feed global corporations, because Slovenian farmers – I know many of them – first come, sell food or agricultural produce one of the European trading chains, earn almost nothing, die in half on meals and become rich corporations. We could make another system so that the farmer can sell directly in the local environment — school, kindergarten, congregation, and customers. It's not possible, it's all illegal because we've adopted such laws. Second thing, food security. We have 30 percent food security, if I'm not mistaken; with a lot of land unprocessed. Every day, as a result of hunger in the world, 24,000 people die because of hunger. In Slovenia, however, people are already hungry for food shortages. I hope you live in Slovenia, to go elsewhere than the beautiful palaces. And we have a lot of land, and it's true -- it's not worth it, nobody's processing it, it's not worth it. I think there are many opportunities for us to start working differently, to start looking for solutions such as those of Switzerland and Austria, specifically in the agricultural field of the most regulated country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you. I'm asking if she wants a representative of the government? He doesn't want to. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, on Monday, 28. 4. 2014, in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the ownership of the transformation of the lotteries of Slovenia in the third defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aljuš Pertinac, State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u96	Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Amendments and additions to the Law on Property Transformation of the Loteria Slovenije, which are ahead of you, are certainly not a matter of marriage, which would constitute a major revolution or a major reform in the field concerned. However, in the view of the Government, as a proposal for amendments and additions, they are essential for acceptance. The following are the main things that convince us of this. Firstly, the inability to implement the existing law in practice. Some of the solutions now in force and not long ago have proved to be illegal in practice inadequate. Let me just mention the unprofessional nature of the Foundation's management body. Let me mention that it has not proved useful in practice that the administrative tasks for the Foundation are carried out by employees at the Ministry of Sport. The report of the Court of Auditors, as well as the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption, does not finally convince us to accept the proposed amendments and to supplement them. In the current consideration of the proposed amendments, we believe that these have been further improved, and we are now really ensuring that their adoption, for the first time, enables the implementation of the law in practice and thus the smooth functioning of the Sports Foundation, which is essential for the smooth financing of Slovenian sport. Secondly, it will take time to prepare, in cooperation with the other competent authority and other stakeholders, a systematic amendment to the law, which will include both the Sports Foundation and the Foundation for Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Whatever the case, the proposed amendments already largely simplify the tasks and provisions relating to both foundations, and they also show that the interest of the proposer is indeed to reach a law that will in practice be feasible and which will allow, as I have already said, the time needed to adopt a comprehensive system solution. As you know, this is an area in which politics has been very much affected in the past. We'd like to end this. Firstly, when the government currently in power has not replaced any of the members of the Sports Foundation Council, nor have its own representatives. Secondly, with the proposed amendments and additions, which, in our view and in the opinion of the competent institutions, including the centres of non-governmental organisations, significantly restrict the possibility of corruption and abuse of the position of the Foundation. I call on you from this city to support the proposed amendment of the law and, as I have pointed out several times, to allow for a comprehensive and systemic solution in due course, which will mean a genuine change and an important step forward both for the functioning of the Sport Foundation and for the functioning of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. When we first read the law, we had a very broad debate on the content of this law. The opposition expressed opposition to the proposed changes. However, we have committed conditional support to the law by coalition Members and Members, expecting the proposer to correct some very obvious shortcomings in the next stages of the legislative process. We also had some comments and concerns regarding the original proposed text in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. The latter referred to a request for a uniformisation of arrangements or identical solutions regarding, for the first time, the appointment of the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Secondly, the adoption of regulations of both foundations on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds. As a matter of fact, we also assessed the provision on the competence of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia regarding the appointment of the acting director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. By adopting the amendments, the text of the law has been sufficiently modified in the course of the second reading at the meeting of the home working body. Our concerns regarding the selection or election of candidates for the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations were also removed by the applicant's appropriate explanations. In view of the fulfilment of our expectations in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we no longer see obstacles to support the law, and we will also support it at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! The provisions of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia were recently amended only a year and a half ago. In New Slovenia, we welcomed the fact that in the Sport Foundation Council, their representative could be proposed mainly by those organisations for which the Foundation was originally set up. These are national sports associations, sports associations of municipalities, athletes, trainers and other professionals in sport. It was high time that a transparent system was also established in the area of sport financing, which would clearly define the rights and duties of the participants. Slovenia has repeatedly proven that we are a nation of athletes by the number of recreational and also top athletes who are in the highest places in international competitions. At the same time, athletes are also great ambassadors of Slovenia, our identity and, as a result, our economy, so it is right for them to co-operate in the relevant bodies on the distribution of the funds they are earmarked for. The proposed novel will again take the opportunity of national sports associations to decide on the distribution of money, which is primarily intended for sport, and will bring a significant impact back to only one of the stakeholders, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. In our view, it is a prestigious fight for influence, but it has completely overshadowed the real problem. And this is less and less money for sports at all. Soon we will also have to say something about financing sport at all levels in the country. We expect the government to draw up a system law very quickly for both foundations funded by the Slovenian Lottery Games, as requested by the Commission to prevent corruption. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats of the bill will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much, President. Welcome to the government, colleagues and colleagues! In Positive Slovenia, we have been involved in the procedure all the time in the preparation of this law, we have made our comments, and we believe that the law is today so that we can adopt it. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia is one of those laws that have probably been amended most frequently in the National Assembly. As a policy has changed, so has this law, mainly because they can change the composition of the world, and this is not good. This law and this amendment follow the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the KPK, as stated by the Secretary of State, who in some ways point out that this organisation of the Sport Foundation – which is now in the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth – is bad. Worse than the last one, worse than the one offered by this law. Because the possibility of political influence is so much greater. That's why it's good, and that's what we wrote in the coalition contract, too, that's a good solution. It is also a good solution that the Foundation will be run by a professional director, because those who today challenge this law have talked years ago about the fact that more than 10 million funds make it very difficult to have or operate on a volunteer basis. That's why it's good. Whether or not the Olympic Committees – The Primat Association of Sports Unions in the composition of the worlds, members of the Foundation's world, is a matter of some culture and some kind of thinking. We in Positive Slovenia consider this to be good, because OKS – The Association of Sports Unions brings together more than 98% of all organisations that manage sports in one way or another. And that's good. Of course, it is important, and we have also pointed out what the choice of these members is, whether it is transparent, how transparent, how everyone can participate in their representatives and how they can be elected. And that is also adequately resolved by this law or by all these changes. Therefore, the law, as I have already said, will receive our support, desiring that the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia will end in a somehow timely time, because the Lottery of Slovenia has long been adopted, and that a law will come into the National Assembly that will make sense of regulating the operation of both foundations. There is some kind of unifying activity in this law, but we are confident, as the Court of Auditors and the KPK have pointed out, that both foundations need to be resolved in an integrated manner. However, he pointed to this and, of course, made a commitment to the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you, too. Ms Janja Nazast has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known representatives of the Ministry, warmly welcomed Members and Members of Parliament. At the first and second reading of the law at the meeting of the National Assembly, we announced in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that we would not support the amendments to the Law on Property Change of the Lottery of Slovenia. The law introduces changes in the work that talk about the composition of the Sports Foundation Council, the Director of the Foundation and the administration of the Sports Foundation; that is, in those parts that we have amended in May 2012 in order to actually bring the law closer to sport and to sport users, in order to increase the democraticity of sport and prevent a monopoly or conflict of interest within the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. The existing law doesn't affect anyone. Everyone can participate in the Sports Foundation Council. The Olympic Committees of Slovenia also have representatives in it today, so that changes to the law are unnecessary. These proposed changes lead to the pure privatisation of sport within the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, since the amendment of the law as proposed changes brings a new composition of the Council of the Sport Foundation, where 12 members of the 17 members will be proposed by the Assembly of OKS. So he will have three quarters of his own in the Council — the majority. In order to give the Olympic Committee of Slovenia the very great powers and monopoly in the division of lottery money through the Foundation and that such composition of the Council also offers opportunities for non-transparent and corrupt actions in the distribution of lottery money, the Commission also warns against corruption in the two negative opinions it has given to this bill, but this opinion has not been taken into account in the second reading of the law. We are still of the opinion that the independent function of the Director and the transfer of administrative tasks back to the Foundation are not necessary, as this places a renewed financial burden on the Lottery Foundation, which receives fewer funds each year, which is truly worrying. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we reiterate our surprise and disappointment that the two coalition parties – DeSUS and the National List, which have advocated and supported these changes in the previous government – have today put themselves in the defence of the interests and structures that have been in the financial structures dedicated to Slovenian sport for decades. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have also tabled amendments for the second reading to preserve the existing state of law, but we have been voted on by the coalition. As I announced at the outset, we will vote in the SDS Group against amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Members and Members of Parliament! Whoever is following the legislative procedure related to the amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije may consider that this is a fundamental change in the law, since we have done a general examination of it, in the second reading we have only adopted one amendment and the law has not been given a passport for immediate treatment and adoption at the same meeting where the second hearing was held. The complications that I call them, but it would be better to talk about the opposition related to the novel under consideration, are linked to various ideas on how and who should deal with the fundamental issues related to the financing of the Foundation of Sports Organisations. In the Group of Social Democrats, however, we are convinced that regardless of the frequency of the amendment of this law, the amount of money to which one of the two foundations covered by the Law on the Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia is entitled will not be any more. The fact is that the purchase of funds from paid-in bets and lottery tickets is getting smaller and we can't control this outflow of funds. Looks like there'll be more money in the future. In the Group of Social Democrats, we did not support the amendment of the law, in which the proposed novel had already been put forward by the opponents. These novelties were even more at odds with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the Anti-Corruption Commission, and were also internally inconsistent with the provisions of the law, since it regulated both foundations in a completely different way. In addition, it was interesting that the original advocates of the non-professional functions of the Director of the Sports Foundation had suddenly become advocates of the new solution. The novelty is, in fact, short, eight articles and eight articles, which fall within the framework of the transitional and final provisions. And where fundamental substantive emphasis lies. The proposal restores the functioning of the Sports Foundation in the context of gross interventionism in the functioning of this body, which was authorised by the Janšev government in the previous term. The Sports Foundation has transferred employees to the Ministry without the necessary accompanying procedures applicable to public servants, abolished the professional function of the Director, whose management role has been assumed by the President of the Council, and practically centralised the proposal for appointment of members in the Government's Sport Professional Council and voted out of this by the Olympic Committees — Association of Sports Unions. Nonsense is now on its way. The operation of the Sports Foundation is back to normal. At the same time, it takes into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, when adopting amendments in 2012, also drew attention to the inexplicability of the distinction with another similar organisation, with the previously mentioned Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. It is further worth stressing that the position of the umbrella civil society organisation in the field of sport is significantly strengthened, namely the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – the Association of Sports Associations, as it is returning to it and, in comparison with the regulation before 2012, strengthens the proposed role for the members of the Council of the Sport Foundation. Finally, let me reiterate that all governments have neglected the importance of harmonising legal acts. The decree providing for the establishment of the Sports Foundation is still obsolete as it is from 1998. Thus, it is not in line with the law, inter alia, in the work which provides for the composition of the Council and the professionality or non-professionalness of the Director's function. The complications of adopting the rules of the Sports Foundation were also included in one of the previous meetings of the parent working body; this was also another attempt to prevent the adoption of the law. Let me point out that the opinion of the Centre of NGOs of Slovenia was adopted in the majority and the comments were taken into account, but not taken into account in the smaller part of the comments. However, in this version of the amendment of the law of implementation, the Commission’s main comment on the prevention of corruption was that it would have been time to regulate matters legally by replacing the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije with a law that would have regulated this uniformly for both foundations and the subsequent changes that had taken place at that time. Of course, we are aware that the law in force is completely empty, but it is not, as representatives of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations have also warned us. We will support the proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. And also Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honorable representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As I said at the first reading of the proposed amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije, it was only a matter of time before the coalition proposed amendments to the pre-adopted arrangements for financing sports organisations. In the framework of the previous coalition, part of which was also the Slovenian People's Party, we have adopted a law which, in our view, has established a more balanced, transparent and, lastly, a much more democratic way of choosing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations – a foundation that decides to allocate funds to those sports organisations, athletes and trainers that have set up the Foundation. In addition, this amendment has changed the conditions regarding the incompatibility of the members of the Council of the Foundation and has also established administrative tasks for the Foundation by the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport. It has also been decided to act as President of the Council of the Foundation in a non-professional manner. The proposed novel in the grave restores the situation before the last amendment of this law was enacted in 2012. This re-establishes the system of appointment of members of the Sports Foundation Council in the way in which the largest number of members, 12 of which will be proposed directly by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia – Association of Sports Unions. Let me remind you that since the last amendment of this law, a regulation has been established whereby 14 members of the National Assembly have proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for sport; it has obtained proposals from members from national sports associations in the field of individual, collective sports, sports recreation, neo-Olympic sports industries, municipal sports associations, athletes and sports coaches or experts. The proposed law, in part, follows a similar principle to that followed by the previous amendment of the law, so that the above-mentioned sports stakeholders can propose members to the Olympic Committee for election, but according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, in such a way, there is too much room for manipulation that we have been given before the last amendment of the Act under consideration. Let me remind you how the members were then proposed to be appointed by the Council of the Foundation. Members of the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – Associations of Sports Unions could only decide on a package of candidates who had previously gone through the board of the Olympic Committee's executive board. It was also not negligible that some sports associations in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia had the right to vote, but their vote was worth noting in the sports jargon. This type of appointment, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, was neither transparent nor democratic, and did not, in the end, ensure the balanced representation of national sports associations in the Council of the Foundation. In particular, we also favoured the adoption of the previous novel, which gave more autonomy directly to national sports associations. According to the proposed law, organizations other than the Olympic Committee — Associations of Sports Unions — will be able to propose to the National Assembly of the Sport Foundation Council. Representative associations of municipalities, Association of Sports Educators and Government. The proposed amendment to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia is not as drastic as the regulation before last year's novel when seven members of the Council were able to propose the Olympic Committee of Slovenia directly, without taking into account the opinion of national or municipal sports associations. Some of the amendments proposed by the Commission to prevent corruption were also adopted during the examination of the law and should increase transparency and prevent conflicts of interest between members of the Council of the Foundation in cases of decisions on the allocation of funds to each organisation. We support this intention in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which does not mean that we support the proposed law. We believe that the current method of appointing the members of the Sports Foundation Council is appropriate and there is no need for changes. We are also detained until the other proposed amendments. The proposed re-establishment of the position of Director of the Sport Foundation as the managing authority is, in our view, unnecessary. We also do not see any need to re-transfer administrative tasks from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the Foundation, as this unnecessarily creates new costs without special added value. That I don't even lose words about the 3,000 Euros that the Foundation's director is going to pay. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is necessary to give athletes, the largest ambassadors of our country, the right conditions for their operation, as well as sufficient funding to perform on the world floor, as well as to encourage younger generations. For this reason, the way in which the Fund for the Financing of Sport Organisations is available is crucial for us in particular. With such organizational machinations as proposed in the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, we are re-forming the content, which has never proved to be positive. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will not support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Prevc. We have also concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The agenda of the panellists has been slightly changed. Mr. Andrej Chuš will be the first to follow him Branko Smodish, then Mag. Ivan Vogrin and Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues who are still present in the National Assembly, as well as to the Secretary of State. I am of the opinion that the proposed amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia are totally unnecessary. I am sure that the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia itself came out when the ownership of the Lottery of Slovenia changed or changed. And again, in some cases, with some short-term and horrifying solutions, we change some laws to change some structures in sport, to set a principle, people change. And for this reason, I am sure that the Sports Foundation has a lot of problems with its operation, because it cannot ensure consistency, because changing the government always changes the composition of the Council, including, of course, the appointment of Council members. On the other hand, it saddens me that when we talk about sport or the Sports Foundation to a large extent, all we talk about is eternal sports officials or sports politicians, and there is very little talk about those who bring us results. Otherwise, it is true that we have adopted a resolution on the National Programme of Sport with broad support, and we also supported it in the SDS Group. We were also aware of the delays in the preparation of this resolution, but I still have a bad feeling. We would rather go to the Ministry, including the government, to prepare measures to meet the objectives of the Resolution on the National Programme of Sport, not to take care of one handful of so-called eternal sports officials or politicians again. I would also expect, as has already been pointed out in several positions of the parliamentary groups, not only the SDS Group, to finally form a law at systemic level to regulate funding to regulate the operation of foundations financed by gambling funds. We have talked about this practically in all the debates and discussions on this law; I am sure not only this year, but also in previous amendments. And I don't know if anyone can, or if someone else is in such a hurry to occupy chairs and start sharing money in Slovenian sports according to their preferences. As I said, amendments to the law once again favour the position of eternal sports politicians who are on the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, and so the policy will regain the monopoly in the allocation of the Fund's funding for sport from the following year, as the call for 2014 was completed, if I am not mistaken, a few days ago. The Government's attempt to adopt current amendments to the law is also to replace the members of the Council of the Foundation. Previously appointed by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, the composition has been changed, so that sports organisations have truly democratically elected members of the Council. Now it is the intention that the elections take place under the auspices of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. It seems to me that a number of people have contacted me or discussed in public that they already know or hope to predict who these people will be. It is therefore a matter of politicisation of sport, usurpation of the source of financial resources and continuation of the negative and corruption risked practice that took place before the previous amendments to the law. This is also confirmed by the Commission's view to prevent corruption that at least two individuals acted corruptly and, of course, also by the Court of Auditors' negative opinion. I can't help but wonder why something is changing again quickly to satisfy certain interests, because I do not think it will bring anything positive, nor anything good for the operation of the Sports Foundation, nor for Slovenian sport. However, this will bring great benefits or some good one really narrow elite, which has been at the top of Slovenian sport since independence. That is why I will not support the proposed amendments, nor will I, and I am also sure that not only in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Shmodish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! Since the nature of things has not changed since the second reading, nor have the amendments been tabled, I will only take a few thoughts that have already been said. Let me remind you that supervisory mechanisms, such as the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission, have drawn attention in 2012 to the systemic risks of corruption without success. The proposal we have before us gives sports back to athletes. The proposal in the Council of the Foundation trusts the largest civil society organisation in the field of sport, and organizational changes also create an environment of autonomous management with the funds of the Lottery of Slovenia. I will support the bill because I believe that there is a need to overcome the political supremacy in an institution that distributes about €10 million per year during sport. I will also support the bill because it follows the principles of co-management in sport, and thus it also shows confidence in the sphere, which, with reverberating success, is spoiling us every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, it'll be Mag's turn. Branko Grims, Janja Attack, Joseph Jerovšek and Alenka Jeraj. Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It is a pity that Mr Chuš said what he said and left, so he will not hear what is good enough to hear if he has not already read the bill. This is because he talked a lot about the corruption risks that the Commission was talking about to prevent corruption, as well as about supervisory reports, it would be good to hear and read, because the Court of Auditors' reports concerned exactly what the government of Ivan Janša had established. As an interesting thing to say, the amendment of this law has been made by the Janša government twice, and it is interesting what they have said for the first time and what they have said for the second time. When they talked about how the director should be appointed, it was very interesting, it was an unprofessional function in the novel in 2012 and they defended it; in 2007, the Minister of the Beast argued extensively about how a professional director should be at the head of the Foundation because he had to manage money or funds to such a large extent. So it was, say, written in the proposal. In recent times, according to the importance and extent of the Fund's resources, the need to professionalise the directors of both foundations has also been demonstrated. Minister Zver said: "With the novel we want to ensure a solid and effective work in the allocation of funds and the prerequisite for this is definitely the professionalization of the job of the director of the Foundation." Why? "We are convinced that this brings greater expertise and operationalism as well as responsibility." And the former New Slovenia Member Marjetka Uhan said: "It seems to us that it is professionally the only right to perform such a function." We could also quote someone from the then coalition, but it would be interesting to see how things turned out by this year. I think that from the debates of those who reject the proposed novel it can be seen that everything is wrong with regard to sport in Slovenia. Because on the one hand they attribute all credit to individuals — athletes, but the fact is that without good coaches and without supportive mechanisms that enable them to function would not be as coordinated as they are. I do not argue that the funding for sport is sufficient, and I recognise that parents, as well as other private individuals, must invest a lot of money, a lot of effort and also their own work to make the results of sport as they are, and that we are all looking forward to them together. But underestimating the functioning of an organised civil sport sphere is also unacceptable. The Olympic Committees of Slovenia – the association of sports associations is the largest organization that brings together all or at least the majority, with the exception of 3%, athletes in its kind. And it would be good if those who have so much to point out who allocates the funds read an article that speaks about the composition of the Council. Both, now the law in force and this proposal, which we now have in third reading, have the same number of Council members, that is 17. But, for example, if you are looking, who and what he calls, the secret elections in the congregation are scheduled. Secret elections so no one can talk about any fear again. But they suggest that four proposals from members of the national sports associations of individual sports industries should be made. Then two proposals from representatives of national sports associations of the collective sports industry; one proposal from a member of national sports associations whose field of action is mostly sports recreation; two proposals from members of national sports associations whose sports sectors are not on the regular Olympic Games programme; and two proposals from members from representatives of the municipal sports associations. I now see no reason to doubt the competence of these members, who also come from national sports associations, but rather to speak that they are only from the Olympic Committee. And then another proposal from one of the top athletes. I would point out, however, that there is still a proposal for sports organisations that are not members of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – the Association of Sports Unions, so 3% is also taken care of. And two members on a proposal from the Community of Municipalities; one Association of Sports Educators, which I think is the only thing I need to stress, is that we have someone here who is so-called a representative representative or representative of a representative association, not just someone who comes from somewhere and without criteria gets a seat in the Council. What else could be said about these things, which are related to the Commission's recommendations to prevent corruption, as well as to the centres of NGOs in Slovenia. The law also now defines who cannot be a member of the Sports Foundation Council in order to exclude conflicts of interest. And it is also logical that administrative tasks from the Ministry will go back to the Sports Foundation. I don't see how it was possible here that they said at the time that the costs would not be when the employees moved from the Sports Foundation to the Ministry, because they were the same people, without the invitation they got the job, by the way; now this is just a return to the original situation. What bothers me is that, despite the amendment, this law does not eliminate some of the differences between the resolution of the Fund for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Sport Foundation. This is, of course, to some extent understandable, because without the debate and agreement of interested NGOs represented in FIHO, this cannot be changed automatically. But I believe that this will be settled when matters are settled, I hope not in some distant future, in a special law, which is also appealed to by the Anti-Corruption Commission. Because in the air of the previous elections and because we already have a right-wing announcement on how to take over positions after the incompetent government of Alenka Bratušek, I am confident that the law will change again. I just don't know if they're going to accommodate the same person who had so many comments from the Court of Auditors at the time, but how the Sports Foundation did business, and we're going to have a chance to see the mother's working body soon, because we're already looking at the annual report of the Sports Foundation. I think that the criticism of the opposition in this case is simply exaggerated because the opposition should have wondered how it regulated the area of sport when it had levers of power in its hands and should have prepared national documents in view of its commitments, but they were not. And it's not just the National Sports Program, it's also the Sports Act and more. But she had to deal with some other things, including abandoning her officials and setting up her own people. But, you know, it's usually like everyone else judging by what they're doing in the same situations. And that's why these insights about how things are going to be in the hands of politics are not even surprising. The law, as I have in all the decisions I have made today, will, of course, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Attack, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, welcome to all present! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia changes or ignores the possibility of a democratic way of making members of the Sports Foundation Council. In fact, the professional council was then made up of a law of two halves, the first half of the members were appointed by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, and in the second half the seats were held by representatives of the Government. So it's about replacing those members of the Sports Foundation that they don't want to be involved in. It is also unacceptable that OKS – the Association of Sports Alliances is the largest recipient of funds and several national links that do not operate under the OKS would be deprived of the proposed law. Here the principle falls, not to mention that the burden of sport also entails an already established higher rate of value added tax. I think it would be good for the Ministry to call for some analysis to be done on the preparation or preparation of the National Sport Programme, as some flat-rate assessments have been made so far, until 2008, some by 2010. Otherwise, the financial resources for investing in sport are falling, which is somehow due to the increasingly empty state treasury also logically, but I would point out that we should have a clearer strategy and anti-crisis measures in the field of national and local sport as well. I hope you will consider your further action. However, the amendment of the bill strengthens the position of eternal sports officials, rather than for those who bring results — that is, the athletes themselves. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj, then Jože Tanko, Franc Jurša and Vlada as the proposer. Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. I won't support the novelty of marriage. I estimate that, as always, it is a matter of rapid change to terminate some of the mandates that have been granted. Ms Potrata had some comments to discuss with her colleague Chuš, who then did not listen when she wanted to explain. Well, now I'd explain something to her, too, but unfortunately she didn't, she left, she obviously doesn't care what the other guys who were part of it have to say. We have changed the law, as it has told us, precisely because we have continued to read about various matters of the then Director of Jurak, because athletes, sports associations, associations that were not included in the Olympic Committee, who wanted to have representatives in the Council of the Foundation, have not had these options. Just because certain associations were exempted and were not represented and could not run for the Council of the Foundation, we changed the law. Since we have also found that many are very successful, even the best athletes came from such associations and sports that the Olympic Committee did not recognize as perspective or very important for Slovenian sport. As I said, we have been monitoring debates and debates, arguing over newspapers and the media about Director Jurak and also with someone else, I think also with Mr Vogrinc, and so on. And this government likes to boast about stability and so on, but it shows that it wants to cause some shocks again in some area. The last two years since the current composition of the Foundation were appointed new members for a five-year term in December 2012. You are now interrupting their term of office, even though I must say that at least I have not noticed any comments about their work in the last two years, unlike the times before we were constantly listening, when we constantly welcomed people in Parliament because they complained about the work of the Olympic Committee and the work of the Sports Foundation Council. I wonder why you will not allow the composition of the Council, such as it is, for the next five years, until 2017, to carry out its work for which it has been appointed? What are the reasons? What are the bad results, what are the corruption issues, as we have seen them before? We know who's been running the Olympic Committees for many years, not to say for decades. We also know the member or president of whose party he once was. So I wonder if it's just a political score again, and what better way will this be for Slovenian sport? I don't believe that. As it is said, on 19 December 2012, the Council of the Foundation was set up for a five-year term; you are now terminating this mandate, there is no explanation for what was wrong, why this should have happened, there were no complaints, I do not see them, and Members have not received them, but they are regularly addressing us. As we have said before, we have witnessed many calls, such as the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Court of Auditors, which reviewed the work of the Foundation to do something about it. And we have – we have changed the law, set up a new Council and thus provided some normal working conditions. I suggest that the government's representatives answer my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jeraj. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. The changes brought by this law certainly do not go in the direction of pluralisation in the field of sport, but in the direction of centralisation. It is actually going in the same direction as it was before these changes were implemented. And in my opinion, this law could be named after Janez Kocjančič as regards sports arrangements. In fact, in the end, the issue is identified by centralising and coordinating everything under one person, and in this case, the Olympic Committees actually get a complete monopoly on the management of the Foundation’s funds, of course Mr Janez Kocijancič. All those other members of the Foundation's Council, those 5 out of 17 are basically ornamental. The funds may be shared on the foundations and decided on all important matters under the lipica, in the hunter or elsewhere. You don't even have to formally call anything, you don't have to look for any broader consensus, no consensus, but it all settles in some rather narrow closed circle. That was the solution that was before that. We have proposed a solution that is quite different, substantially broader and has enabled many who have so far been excluded from decision-making in the field of sport to have a creative influence and design solutions in this area. I believe that this return to some centralised spheres cannot be done well. Nowhere and never, at no time has centralisation brought some good solutions, and it is unlikely that there will be no solutions in this area. In some ways, the non-transparent operation and conflict within individual structures, which have been involved in the distribution of lottery funds, has also been a matter that has been particularly or also emerged in past periods. A number of things were identified when we addressed these annual reports, both in the area of the allocation of funds as regards FIHO and FSO, in both areas. In the FIHO area, certain changes could be made as regards exclusion. Unfortunately, nothing could be done in the field of sport before, because these interests were extremely strong. I think it would be necessary for all of these things, where they interfere with these mass organisations and in this structure, to be said earlier by one of the debates, that it is the most mass organization – to do so in such a way as to try to tackle these things from the bottom up and to involve as many people as possible in the management of this system. Thus, it is simply subordinated to a properly politically profiled structure; it is no different than we can think about it. It is simply obvious that those with political power at a certain point are adapting these structures in such a way that this mass part of sport is also subordinated to certain political interests, which I think is seriously wrong. If we want to have the right things and properly organised things in this area, also properly financed and managed, then this should be regulated in the manner that has been regulated so far. What this law now brings, however, goes in the opposite direction. As far as supporting this law is concerned, I will certainly not give it, because it makes sense to me that things are being designed and implemented in a completely different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Pertinac, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Maybe just a few highlights. Of course, there is no reason why opponents of the adoption of the law would be able to read to the proposer any bad intentions or to use the abusive terms they repeatedly repeat in all three cases. Since it is not us, it is the Government as a proponent who should be convinced of its right. You've got a whole other problem. I do not determine whether in the Slovenian Democratic Party you are the greatest knowledgeers of sport in Slovenia, but the only problem you have is that you obviously have not convinced any civil society organisation to do so because in all three aspects of this proposal, no civil society organisation has supported the existing law. I have repeatedly stressed that the government has not replaced any member of the Council of the Foundation. And you members of the Council of the Foundation, appointed by your pluralist and democratic process, must convince that the existing law is good. That didn't work out for you, I'm sorry. The President of the Council of the Foundation – whose political orientations I do not know and I do not care because this is her private matter; but I believe that you did not appoint her because she would have been inadequately politically profiled – is convinced that the existing law is impracticable and supports the proposed changes. If you have problems with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, then you must make changes through democratic procedures in participation in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. Here's the problem. It is difficult for the National Assembly or the Government to change civil society organisations. I don't think it's appropriate. This is not a referendum on the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. This is also not a referendum on whether it is pluralistic that the Director-General of the Directorate at the competent ministry is also in his spare time the Director of the Sports Foundation, which allocates funds to civil society organisations. These are, in my opinion, the issues that are missing. What we have on the table is whether the existing law is enforceable and whether it is good. The debate has shown in three cases that it is not feasible that it is not good. Vote against these views from sports, I apologize – except for sports people in the National Assembly, but we have not heard and here is the problem of opponents of changes in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. You want a replica? Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u124	Mr State Secretary, what law is not enforceable as regards the Council of the Foundation? The Council of the Foundation has been appointed for five years. Isn't it feasible? They have been named, written on the website, I assume they have been appointed, if the Council has been established, and have a mandate of five years. What is not feasible of this, and why should the composition of the Council be changed? I think we all know why – the Kocijancič Foundation will be once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u125	Mr. Tanko, do you want a replica too? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u126	Yeah, sure. When proposals come from your side, the government, not just yours, we face many times that one thing is not feasible, even the Slovenian State Holding Act is impossible, even the DUTB has been impossible for a long time. I don't know how long it's been since we found out that the Council of the Foundation isn't operational if it's designed and installed. Appointments per unit have been made in the same way as the rules have been drawn up. Everything in the coaches, in the Olympics, in the neo-Olympic, individual sports was glassed as the rules were made, and the Foundation worked. If this is the perception of one secretary of state, his back and his minister that something is not working, then it does not work on the basis of a political opinion. The foundation worked, performed its functions, shared money and so on, just as it was set up. And I'm going to say, these flat rates, without someone in the National Assembly bringing in some labs because it didn't work, but it's unsustainable. A political official, minister or secretary of state must convince the National Assembly on the basis of documents, not on the basis of passwords brought into the National Assembly. And the fact that some group of people, who's just politically repossessed some department, takes this into their hands and then explains what's impossible, is insufferable. If we wanted to make changes in the Foundation or in any other area, we would simply provide some information to the National Assembly in order to be able to look at it, to see that it actually does not work; as we are also in favour of changes when it comes to it. But like this, when someone gets up in the morning and finds out something's wrong, and he's got a three-minute solution that's bringing things back to normal, then that's probably not a solution. And we're very close to that conclusion I made at the beginning. This is only about the fact that the impact on the sport sphere and the sharing of money is concentrated in one or two persons, while all others, who are now equally, democratically involved in the sharing of this money, are eliminated. And we don't have any more sport in that part about the composition of the Foundation Council, but we have a concentration that can appoint its members, as I said, that's where Figovac gathers and makes 12 members of the Sports Foundation Council since 17. If this is a procedure that allows for some transparent work in this area and provides for a matter, this is probably a problem. I suggest that you hold on to such assessments, without delivering anything to the National Assembly, that something doesn't work, because things don't work. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u127	Three minutes, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u128	and they're not demented. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have a conclusion to the debate. The list is exhausted. However, there is still time for discussion, so please everyone interested in further discussion to sign up [[..]] Here you go, Mr. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. I take this opportunity to congratulate you, a little early, on the election of the European Ambassador, because you will certainly be elected. I'm gonna get out of the current hearing, but I'm gonna talk about this marriage. Tadej Toš said: "Why will Slovenia never be Switzerland?" And he said, "Because the Slovenians don't work like Swiss." That's why I don't. On Friday afternoon, there are no more Members of Parliament, there are virtually no employees in the public administration. That's what he said. Furthermore, because the Slovenians have systemic corruption, we all talk about it; when we hold it, we do nothing. But you're not, Mr Secretary of State, you're responsible and you're not guilty, I'm looking at you because you're defending these solutions. You're a long way from being responsible and guilty. We'll try to figure out who. But let's try to ask ourselves something else. How is it possible that Slovenia is so poor on this beautiful piece of land that people are already hungry? Staff of the National Assembly have 600 euros in salaries, some don't get salaries, we're in danger of collapse every time. If we weren't in debt, we wouldn't have any more wages, neither would you. What happened? You know what happened – this is my explanation of course and I often ask myself this question, and you know why? Because I've already experienced bankruptcy. And total bankruptcy of the state will not be pleasant, but it will happen "innovated". Why? Because we replaced the word "the theft" with "he found himself." We Slovenians have come up with a new synonym, a new word. Normally, if someone stole something, they said they stole it. And we said, "It's working." And this law is a typical example of people finding themselves and making the system useful to them. One group of people instead of all citizens. You know, that's the problem with this marriage, and that's the problem with that. And yet we are now accusing ourselves of left and right and throwing something away, but that's not the problem. The problem is – the system needs to be changed. For in Switzerland the Members are unprofessional, in Switzerland has civil society, the opposition has a fundamental influence in the institutions of the system. And we work here in such a way that everyone who is currently in power – and this power is now extremely extreme in this – pushes away everyone else; God forbid you come along and look at it by accident. I've posted a lot of these things on the website, that's the problem. That's the problem. And we have another problem in Slovenia, nobody wants to work anymore, and everyone would have a job. People ask me if I could get them a job. He set up a job!? Do you know what this job means? This means that it comes through the door of the institution at seven or eight and you leave at three or four and no one ever asks you what you did, how you did it, you don't answer for anything, and so on. It's a job. And that's what we've been growing for ten years – jobs. That's why we're done. And this marriage is another one in a series of those who will make the end come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-25-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I also conclude this debate on the proposal for a law in its entirety. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law for the third hearing, so the assembly will decide on a proposal for a law in accordance with the timing of the assembly on Monday, 28. 4. in the context of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item as well as the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Monday, 28. 4. 2014, at 9 a.m. Thank you very much and good-bye.
