ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the third session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mag. Tanja Zink, Ludmila Novak, Anita Koleša until 13 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek and Dr. Franc Trček from 11.30 to 15.30. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that's the first defence proposal for a law on the supplementation of a criminal code. The draft law was tabled by a group of 17 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the Group of 17 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners to Mr Jean Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members, good-bye! In the last period, the level of risk and threat posed by foreign fighters and terrorist activities of the Islamic State has increased. In view of the above, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2178 on 24 September 2014, which defines the new term "foreign terrorist fighters". On the basis of this resolution, we can speak of Slovenians fighting on the side of extremists in Syria and Iraq as foreign terrorist fighters. The resolution states that it is for individuals to travel to another country where they do not have permanent residence or citizenship, in order to curve, plan, prepare or participate in terrorist activities or to pursue and participate in terrorist training, including in connection with an armed conflict. The resolution also requires countries to prevent the recruitment, organisation, transport and equipping of foreign terrorist fighters on their soil. The European Council recognised the rise of extremists in Syria and Iraq and also called for the accelerated implementation of 22 measures from the package adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council in June 2013. At the 4th meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, held in Luxembourg on 9 and 10 October 2014, on the question of halting the movement of foreign fighters to Syria and Iraq and resolution 2.184, the European Union Justice and Home Affairs Council held in Luxembourg on 9 and 10 October, the Minister of the Interior stressed: "Our position at this time is that this amendment of the Code is somehow not yet a priority or that it is necessary to approach the development of common risk indicators for consistent non-systematic control, which could then also move towards a better or equal level at all external borders, i.e. without further prejudice to the rights and freedoms of individuals." The media also reported that there are currently 3,000 foreign terrorist fighters from Europe in Syria and Iraq. The main issue raised in this regard is the level of risk or danger, which will certainly increase soon, as individuals who participated in the crimes of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria will return to the territory of the European Union after the military break of the Islamic State. The fact that the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, is also a member of the Schengen family, the potential danger is only increasing and prescribing even faster preventive action for human security. There is little time for preventive action, as a very broad international coalition has been formed to combat the Islamic State, and the United Nations Security Council has adopted its last resolution, which defines this term as "foreign terrorist fighters", and also speaks of preventing the terrorist threat of ISIS, unanimously. At the last meeting of the Council of the European Union on Justice and Home Affairs, held in Luxembourg on 9 and 10 October, the Presidency of Ministers initially informed that the European Council confirmed in August 2014 that the rise of the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant is a serious threat to European security and that decisive action is needed to curb the flow of foreign fighters from Europe fighting on the side of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. The European Council therefore called for the accelerated implementation of the package of 22 measures agreed in June 2013. The measures cover four priority areas: prevention of radicalisation, detection of suspicious travel, investigation and prosecution, and cooperation with third countries. In doing so, the United Kingdom stressed that the threat is growing rapidly and spreading, and therefore it is their view that enhanced cooperation should be developed mainly in external border control. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no more time for blisters, and we must act immediately, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose to supplement the Penal Code with 111.a. which will prevent the recruitment of individuals for terrorist societies. As we know that you are concerned with the safety of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, I hope you will support our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 13th regular meeting on 11 December this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an opinion on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Penal Code, submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the first-signed Mr Jožet Tank. The Group of Members and Members proposes to establish a new criminal offence in the Code of Penalties in 111a, entitled Foreign Terrorist Warriors, which would set out a specific form of punishment for involvement in terrorist activities abroad, in particular participation in terrorist training, in order to implement the United Nations Security Council resolution adopted this September. The Government considers that the proposed changes are not necessary. The acts contained in the resolution are already defined as offences in the current Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, and the provisions of the proposed crime are, in the opinion of the Government, insufficiently explained, unclear and incomprehensible to the cities. As such, they are also disputed in terms of the fundamental principle of legality and the specificity of criminal conduct. In its opinion, the Government drew attention to the following issues. The duplication of formulations or the definition of individual offences with existing crimes against terrorism, the basic form of the crime is found in the second paragraph. In principle, it should be in the first paragraph. The first paragraph mentions foreign armies and police and gives the impression that the operation and horrors of ISIS recognise the status of the State. It is also difficult to assess how the provisions of the third paragraph should be demarcated from protection to terrorist acts already defined as a criminal offence under the Penal Code. In paragraph 5, it is not clear why participation in international military and civil operations should be protected, since their participants cannot conceptually be terrorists. However, if this is presupposed or implied by the proposed legal signs, it is inappropriate to rescue them from punishment. Because if they really are terrorists, they have to be punished. And what's even more controversial. If article 111a is proposed in this context, it can be understood that the activities of any citizen or individual residing in the Republic of Slovenia as a terrorist fighter abroad are not criminal at all, nor is it just a criminal training for terrorism. In particular, the fifth paragraph decriminalises the activity of the persons referred to in the fifth paragraph of Article 111a proposed. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Government opposes the proposed amendments, as already explained in the opening decision, in the light of the fact that, in the opinion of the Government and also the State Prosecutor's Office, as the only qualified authority in the Republic of Slovenia for the initiation or proposal for the introduction of a criminal prosecution, the acts dealt with in the resolution referred to in the introduction are already criminalised or defined as offences in the applicable Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u6	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. Peace is for a generation of goods that are self-sufficient. Some other generation or generation of people are somewhere far away from us, dreaming of peace and freedom. We are concerned about developments in the international dimension related to the functioning of terrorist organisations, in particular the dissemination and promotion of ideas and, in particular, the actions carried out by organisations and individuals in the regions and in the world. We look and listen to the stories of children, women, adolescents, elderly people, sick people, or people who leave their homes and flee from ISIS fighters who do not choose the means and ways to take people's lives. We are particularly concerned about the decisions of individual citizens and citizens of Slovenia, as well as the EU, that they are willing to take sides with ISIS fighters. Members and Members who have prepared and proposed to supplement the Penal Code are also concerned about the functioning of terrorist organisations. We hope that this addition to the Penal Code is not limited to some concern for its promotion. The government has convinced us that there is no need to change the Penal Code. In a written opinion, the Government explains why this law, which introduces the term "foreign terrorist warrior", is not appropriate, in fact, we are confident that today the representatives of the Government will further explain to us during the discussion of a particular part. Social Democrats join all those who believe that terrorism poses a threat to the security of freedom and the values of Slovenia and the EU. Years ago, we remember the European terrorist events of Madrid and London, and at EU level, the competent institutions have also encouraged us to pay more attention to this area. It is stated that, I quote: "The EU is working hard to persuade and suppress terrorist activities and to protect infrastructure and citizens. It also addresses the causes, means and capabilities of terrorism. Coordination between law enforcement and judicial authorities in the EU and international cooperation are also important to ensure the effectiveness of the fight against nationalist phenomena. We can now see that the financial and economic crisis has focused the attention of the institutions mainly on bank resolution and less on people's rescue. Maybe that's what this is all about, losing people's jobs usually puts them in poverty. Social Democrats support the efforts of the international community in a common approach to the fight against terrorism, against the promotion and recruitment of people into terrorist organisations. This is a global problem that we can solve together. By being patient with one another or by being patient with another. Many strategies, action plans and measures have already been adopted against organised terrorism, which have also affected human integrity. Of course, it is not possible to overlook the resolutions adopted by the UN Security Council, including binding Resolution No 2178. I might also draw attention to the recent EU ministerial meeting in Belgrade – the Western Balkans in the field of justice and home affairs. The Ministry's website reads: "The Slovenian Counter-Terrorism Initiative has received the support of participants in this meeting." As part of the fight against terrorism and radicalisation, with emphasis on foreign fighters, Italian Minister Angelino Alfano briefly took action and efforts at EU level to successfully combat the so-called phenomenon of foreign fighters. In doing so, he pointed out that cooperation with the Western Balkans region is also important in this area, mainly from the point of view of the exchange of information. This is why, at the right time, Slovenia has launched an initiative for an integrated approach to support the Western Balkans in the fight against terrorism. I conclude by summarizing the text: "We hope and we want qualified people and organisations to take a comprehensive approach to solving this global problem." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u7	The text is given by the Joint Left Group and on its behalf by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! Terrorism is a structural phenomenon and we are obviously unaware of this fact. The proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code, which we are considering today, certainly does not solve this problem. When we look at the text of the explanation of the proposal and just the text of the articles, the first question arises to us whether such actions and acts are not a crime in Slovenia. But when we look at the text of the current Penal Code, we quickly find that the Penal Code defines such acts and actions as criminal. The proposal is therefore unclear and unnecessary. The applicable Penal Code contains several articles which define defined acts as criminal offences. Article 108 thus defines terrorism, which also includes cooperation and assistance in such crimes. Article 109 defines the offence of financing terrorism, Article 111 of recruitment and training for terrorism. Article 297 would also apply, which defines the promotion of hatred, violence and intolerance, or Article 294, which defines criminal association. The measures to combat terrorist fighters and organisations, as set out in the resolution, have already been adopted by Slovenia. In addition, the wording of the provision as well as the explanations given in the draft law are unclear and unfounded. Secondly, we cannot support the proposal for a simple reason because the applicants clearly do not see what the problem is. To understand the phenomenon of terrorism, we must first talk about the structural reasons for its existence and existence. Instead of adding an unnecessary article to the Penal Code, we should condemn the Western imperialist policy, which is the main culprit for the current situation. In the United Left, of course, we do not cultivate any sympathy for extremist movements in Iraq and Syria, but military intervention is part of the aggressive foreign policy of the West, which tries to replace the loss of economic hegemony with military domination and thus is part of the problem and not the solution, although its interference represents a solidarity response to calls for assistance by the vulnerable population. This same policy of the military domination of the North Atlantic Alliance is precisely the one that produces these movements. And not just because of the aggression she's been carrying out in this area, but even with her weapons. When appropriate, they organised resistance groups that collapsed the authorities, for example in Afghanistan, and this was the case in Syria with Assad. In the first case, the escaped experiment became Al-Qaeda with Osama Bin Laden, and in the second, ISIS. Both are the product of the efforts of the NATO Union. In the United Left, we strongly oppose the Western imperialist policy, which is mainly military-mediated only in those parts of the world that are important for the economic interests of the West. Such a policy is undoubtedly responsible for the rise and impact of extreme movements that have arisen in violence. How is it possible not to deal with the search for solutions that will address the structural causes of conflict, the rise of symmetry at global level, poverty, economic exploitation, the justification of military interventions with simple ideological dichotomys such as east-west, anti-democracy terrorism, etc., which are moralising the political and economic context of implementation, moralizing requires the answers that we will have to find beyond the established political and economic frameworks. Perhaps we'd sooner allow asylum for refugees from war zones. Dear colleagues! The bill before us today offers neither an answer nor a solution to the root causes, and it is all too bent on strong stigmatization based on religion. However, it is unnecessary to introduce criminal offences already defined in the Penal Code. Because of the planned and systematic hostile discourse of Islamophobia, we still have a society that cultivates a range of prejudices to all sorts of differences – even religious ones, and this law only accelerates. Therefore, in the United Left, we will not support the proposal as appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u9	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, in its name Mag, has the word. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u10	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The lack of respect for human rights throughout the world and the lack of democratic standards lead to terrorism. We know more forms of terrorism, from state, religious, even to the operation of lone wolves. The key feature of terrorism is that it does not know borders or time. If you follow the latest developments in foreign media as well, then you can see that terrorists strike from Pakistan, Afghanistan to Nigeria and Europe is not immune to such blows. Nevertheless, it has been shown that recently there has been an extremely extreme and unusual form of state terrorism in the form of an Islamic State in the area of Iraq and Syria. In order to know how this has happened, it is also right to look at the reasons for this kind of formation of an Islamic country that cultivates extreme forms of terrorism, such as cutting heads, decapitation and the like. When the Arab Spring took place, certain processes also began in Syria, and the opposition stood up against the Assad regime, divided into two parts, a secular part and a religious part. In the fight against Assad, the regime also began to dominate religious extremists because of its ideology and the opposition, which was formed around terrorist organisations and later literally transformed into the Islamic State. The problem with the Islamic State is that it represents a great magnet for the recruitment of foreign fighters. Many fighters are leaving Europe and Slovenia. The key question that Slovenia must deal with and cannot overlook this problem, nor can it say that this is not our problem, is what will happen when these fighters start coming back. The existing criminal code, which you have also pointed out to some of the pro-pronouns and the Government in their position, is actually dealing with terrorism in certain forms. It speaks of the State of Slovenia as a terrorist activity of all kinds of organisation and provision of financial or other assistance in relation to terrorist activities. However, one important part is overlooked, which is particularly reflected in the association of foreign fighters, and this is that the existing criminal code does not have the tools to prosecute the participation of Slovenian citizens in activities and organisations, as well as in the fights of internationally recognised terrorist organisations. I am speaking of internationally recognised those whom the international community has placed on the list of terrorist organisations. However, Slovenia does not have the right tools to act to prosecute such citizens participating in such fighting. If this existed, then Slovenia could act in the case of two Islamist fighters who have recently returned to their homeland and who have been widely reported on by the media. In fact, the State, except that it has performed their vows with them, and except that someone has been detained for the illegal possession of weapons, did not have any effective tools to take action against such fighters. In contrast, we can look at France, where ten such fighters have been sentenced to prison sentences. In Slovenia, the Penal Code does not offer such tools. Certainly the proposal before us today, which we are addressing, has certain shortcomings in particular in its work when it speaks of the specific status of people participating in international operations, but the aim of the proposaler was extremely clear. This is to lay down certain rules in the Code of Penalties, certain articles that would also allow for the persecution of such fighters who go to foreign battlefields and return to Slovenia later. And we certainly appreciate that this proposal also follows the special United Nations Security Council Resolution 2178, which obliges Member States to define in their domestic legislation crimes and to ensure effective prosecution of specific emerging forms of terrorism, which includes the following: voluntary provision of funds or fundraising, voluntary organisation or other facilitation of travel, including recruitment and so on. In New Slovenia, we estimate that the proposed amendment is suitable for further consideration. Since this is a first reading, we believe that this proposal should go into further procedures and that further procedures could also address the shortcomings that some have pointed out in their views. As I said, the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal to amend the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors and, on its behalf, by Mr Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u12	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! We have before us the proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code, which introduces a new concept in article 111, which is "a foreign terrorist warrior". In the Alliance's Group, we believe that Slovenia must follow developments in the world. Terrorism and terrorist actions, which can be monitored almost daily by the media, cannot leave us indifferent. The security of our citizens must be taken care of by the state, that is, by the government, and by us as legislator. In the Alliance, we agree with the draft law that the level of risk and threat posed by foreign fighters and terrorist activities of the Islamic State has increased over the past period. The resolution adopted in the United Nations requires countries to prevent the recruitment, organisation, transport and equipping of foreign terrorist fighters on their soil. That is why we have examined the law with the utmost care, and we estimate that the applicants for this supplement have gone too fast and superficially, since if they have adopted the text in an unaltered form, completely outside the scope of the crimes of terrorism already contained in the Penal Code, they could, with excessive forms of criminality, intervene in fundamental human rights and freedoms. In the Alliance, we are aware that the definitions of criminality or the incrimination of certain acts and the associated level of penalties, as some criminal law theories say, are determined and dosed with a medical spoon due to the known dilemma between security and the restriction of freedom. That is why we have almost decided that we will not support the proposal. In the opinion of the Government, however, we have changed our decision, at least as President of the Committee of the National Defence Council. The other members of the parliamentary group will decide on possible support on the basis of the discussion and the replies given by the Government in the debate. Let me give you two reasons why you've been trying to change your mind. The competent Ministry of Justice, in its opinion, argues that the Republic of Slovenia has a sufficient scope to deal with the resolution. In doing so, it refers to amendments to the 2004 Penal Code, the new 2008 Criminal Code and amendments to the 2011 Penal Code based on the 2002 Conventions and other international instruments on the Prevention of Terrorism, 2005, 2006 and 2008. In this regard, it is worth noting that the said Resolution 2178, adopted by the United Nations Security Council on 24 September this year, has reopened reflections on the shortcomings and updates of the above-mentioned international instruments on the prevention of terrorism. Many EU Member States and our neighbours have taken a far more cautious and proactive approach to dealing with these security threats. Let me just say that the Austrian government is planning to adopt strict legislation against terrorist organisations such as the Islamic State. Similar measures are being decided by Italy in the meantime. In this tightening of anti-terrorist laws, Italians are also expected to help themselves with laws they have already adopted in the fight against the Mafia. Germany has already banned any propaganda and recruitment of fighters from the Islamic State, and the perpetrators of the ban are threatened with up to two years' imprisonment. In the UK, too, they are discussing a new proposal for counter-terrorism legislation that will, among other extreme Islamic preachers, prohibit work at schools and universities and strengthen control over alleged extremists. While we cannot agree with some of the proposals mentioned above, we point out that the Islamic State is a serious threat, not only military, but also human rights, democracy, the rule of law. The Islamic State is one of the most cruel terrorist organizations. She is responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity to a large extent in areas under her control in Syria, as recently reported by the United Nations Investigation Commission on Syria. If we look across the European Union, we can see that some of the countries we love to follow are not just introducing new legislation, but are also preparing action plans to fight extremist groups. Germany, which was an example to us when we set our country on its feet, took this step forward because a German court sentenced the first terrorist who fought on the side of the Islamic State a few weeks ago to prison. Three jihadists were recently convicted in Britain, but these convictions are not the first. Spain, Morocco and the other Mediterranean countries are linked to joint recruitment investigations for the Islamic State. In the previous month, the Austrian police carried out a large-scale raid against alleged Islamic extremists, involving over 900 police officers. Secondly, the Ministry of Justice states that it is inappropriate, in the context of Resolution 2178, to designate the military, police and armed groups as signs of a crime. It is true that this resolution touches on the participation of foreign terrorist fighters in an armed conflict and that it loses context, which does not mean that such cooperation should be tolerated. In this regard, it is worth mentioning that the State must ensure two fundamental values, namely, the security of all its citizens and residents, and that the Republic of Slovenia rejects any use of force in international relations and participation in wars, and that this direction should also be followed by an internal legal order. In doing so, the Republic of Slovenia could follow Bosnia and Herzegovina, where intelligence services and police, in accordance with their competences, regularly collect data on the departure of BiH citizens from and against fighting abroad. The Ministry of Justice would like to point out that the current social and economic conditions have an important impact on the emergence of extremism throughout the EU. The European Union warns that since World War II, extremist and populist forces have never had as much influence in national countries as they do today, and estimates that violent extremism has become one of the greatest threats to the security of the citizens of the European Union. The latter is the case for left, right and religious extremism. There is a gap between extremism and terrorism, but it is not as big as many imagine. However, extremism can also be defined as a course of action that on the other hand escalates into violent extremism and, on the third level, terrorism, which has already been precisely defined as such. Thus, the gap between them appears at the point of violence or non-violence. The key threat posed by terrorist groups is the threat to life, property, critical infrastructure, attempts to violently take over institutions and countries, the abolition of democratic regulation and so on. In the past mandate, the phenomenon of extremism has been dealt with by the Commission of Inquiry to identify and assess the activities of extremist groups. This Commission, which concluded in 2013 before the threat posed by the Islamic State, found that the level of threat posed by Slovenia in relation to extremist groups and movements was low, while stressing that the competent services were obliged to monitor the situation all the time and to inform the competent authorities immediately if the level of threat changes. The National Assembly, at the proposal of the Commission of Inquiry, pointed out that the tools available to state authorities to combat the phenomenon of extremism and the activities of extremist groups were not sufficiently effective. He therefore invited the competent authorities to prepare, in accordance with those proposals, proposals to amend legislation and the essential findings of the parliamentary investigation, proposals for amendments or additions to legislation which mainly regulates the field of criminal law, public order and peace, police, offences, public servants, political parties and the media. At that time, the Commission of Inquiry also found that the Slovenian intelligence and security authorities expressed the need to limit the operation and association of extremist groups and also the legal possibilities for sanctioning. In particular, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice had a slightly different view on this issue, but they felt that the legal regime of the investigation problem was sufficient and that there was no need to tighten the legislation. The latter means that the remaining authorities, in addition to the intelligence and security authorities, separately approach each other in their own way to deal with this phenomenon. Partial approaches without adequate uniform legislation and a strategy for prosecution of such phenomena have always proved unsuccessful. In the Alliance, we feel that the government, when it comes to security issues, does not act in a sufficiently coordinated manner. This is also illustrated by the statement made by the Internal Minister on the EU Affairs Committee when she stated that the amendment of the Penal Code is not a priority or should be approached to better control at all our external borders. It would therefore seem reasonable to us that the Government would take a more holistic approach to dealing with the problem and that it would not be in charge of just one or two ministries. The real place to address the Islamic extremism and terrorism of the Islamic State would be the National Security Council, which was set up at the end of October, but I do not think it has met on this subject yet. The National Security Council is responsible for coordinating the national security policy and for guiding and coordinating the activities carried out to achieve the interests and objectives of national security. It thus advises the Government, inter alia, on the adoption of its measures and acts and coordinates the opinions and actions of ministries, other state bodies and organisations. It also identifies and assesses security risks and threats to the country. The Minister of Justice said at a meeting of EU justice ministers when they discussed the problem of foreign fighters in Syria and Iraq that we have criminal justice frameworks and that more can be done in the area of cooperation between competent authorities and intelligence and security services. This cannot be agreed with. Slovenian intelligence services and security authorities, or police, work well, cooperate as far as possible within their powers, and cooperate well with related institutions in Europe and the world. Their work is good and appropriate to the circumstances and powers they have. I hereby base my assessment on the work of the investigative commission in the previous term, and I was a member of it, as well as of the Committee on Defence, which I convened at the beginning of this mandate, so that the National Assembly could take note of the security situation in Slovenia and of other events related to the Islamic State and Islamic extremism. At that time, we received rather comprehensive information from the competent authorities, on the basis of which I can say that these services and bodies work well, have been active for a long time, and are currently in good control. The surveillance is ongoing, has been carried out in the past, is taking place at this time and will take place even more intensively in the future. It is therefore worth further commenting on the record of the Government or the competent minister that, in view of the proposed change in practice, it is very difficult to imagine the work of the detection and prosecution bodies of a specific crime and then of the courts in the judicial determination, the trial, the purpose of the individual offender even more so, since it is also an international or cross-border aspect in the execution of the crime itself. Let me point out that security and intelligence agencies are also carrying out their work across borders, in cooperation with foreign security and intelligence authorities, and if there is a reasonable suspicion of terrorist activity, they shall immediately inform the other competent institutions. At this point, security risks are very low, but of course nothing can be completely excluded, as Slovenia is not an oasis. We are in a special position due to the proximity of the Western Balkans, as Slovenia is the main corridor on the road from the Islamic extremists from Vienna to BiH and then further into the Middle East. In addition, there are centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo where Jihadists train to fight in Syria and Iraq. The Committee of the National Foreign Policy Assembly also took note of the activities of the extreme Islamic State at the emergency meeting behind closed doors. At both the Committee on Defence and the Foreign Policy Committee, we invited Members of the Government to study and amend anti-terrorist legislation. If the Republic of Slovenia had a satisfactory criminal justice framework, as the Minister claims, the law enforcement authorities should have long since acted against at least two Slovenian citizens who have already fought in the ranks of the Islamic State and returned home – one has already fallen in battle – and is still at least three who are expected to participate in training in Bosnia and Herzegovina. With the Minister of Justice, we can agree that the law proposed by the SDS may not be the most appropriate and that, in the fight against terrorism, something can be done in the area of other legislation, not just criminal. However, we cannot agree to the Government's position on the proposal, which shows an underestimating attitude towards the bill and problem-solving proposal, as if, with the exception of Foreign Minister Karl Erjavce, it would not be aware that Slovenia is part of a global coalition led by the United States, in which about 60 countries are involved, and that it is not only for principle reasons, as it was initially shyly avoided. It also operates operationally, not in the form of military action or training of fighters against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, but works in humanitarian efforts, in the fight against recruitment and financing of their activities, as well as in the fight against ideology. This coalition is much more than just a military coalition. It is a coalition of countries that shows their commitment to the values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights and wants to contribute to peace abroad in order to ensure peace at home, and the Republic of Slovenia should act accordingly. And that's it. As we can see from the opinion, the Government or the competent minister is concerned about human rights and freedoms, which is good to hear. Nor is our debate in the direction of calling for the reduction of human rights and freedoms at the expense of security, nor does it express intolerance against Islamic culture and civilization. We have always advocated the coexistence of different cultures and religions in coexistence and good interfaith relations and mutual trust. It does, however, call on the Government to approach this issue, even if it is an SDS proposal, in an integrated and careful manner. When we suffer the first fatalities attack, it'll be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u13	The text is given by the SMC Group, in its name Ksenija Rootjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you very much, distinguished presidents, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Due to the increased risk level of terrorist activity and the crisis situation of mass terror and atrocities in Iraq and Syria, the United Nations Security Council has also adopted a binding Resolution No 2.178 on foreign terrorist fighters in Slovenia concerning the threat to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts. The resolution obliges United Nations Member States to take action against foreign terrorist fighters, i.e. persons travelling to others, foreign countries, and to participate in terrorist activities in these foreign countries or to train themselves in foreign countries for terrorist activities. It should be noted that the resolution in a large number of provisions explicitly states that measures must comply with international human rights law. At the same time, the issue of persecution or punishment of so-called terrorist fighters in terms of criminal law must first be examined in terms of the existing KZ-1 regime. On a more detailed analysis of the provisions of the specific section of the Penal Code, the provisions of the general work and the comparatively proposed Article 111a, we find that the area and content resulting from the proposal is sufficiently adequate, sufficiently covered and also regulated. Such a claim is to rely primarily on the primary application of Article 108 KZ-1, which regulates the crime of terrorism, and in particular on its seventh paragraph of the same Article relating to cooperation. Other articles of the said Code, namely recruitment and training for terrorism, protection and public promotion of terrorist acts, financing of terrorism, criminal association and public promotion of hatred, violence or intolerance, are also relevant. However, in the argument of sufficient and appropriate existing arrangements, it is also worth noting the link with the general institutes of criminal substantive law in the general part of KZ-1 and, in particular, the link to Article 34, which regulates the experiment, and Article 36a, which refers to participants. The proposed article 111a thus contains legal signs which are already criminalised by the existing code and we therefore consider that the proposed article is unnecessary. It is also a embarrassing formulation that mentions foreign military and police in the context of the resolution, which can lead to the conclusion that ISIS terrorists are recognised as military or police status, which is legally and morally unacceptable. We also believe that the use of foreign forces and foreign police to cover up the crime and the service of the enemy of the military and the recruitment of foreign troops and assistance to the enemy. The explicit reference to the resolution is also inappropriate, as this excludes punishment from other United Nations resolutions. We stress that all interventions into criminal material law must work within the legal system of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Security must also work within a free democratic society, with respect for constitutional democracy, the rule of law and, as has already been said, with the explicit respect for human rights. Because of the SMC proposal under consideration in the SMC Group, we will not support the law on supplementing KZ-1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and, on its behalf, by Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say my best to all of you. Security is a good thing that we all consider to be self-evident, but it is not. Far from it. We live in a world that is very far from the ideal that everyone would like. To live in peace, to live in a way that respects each other’s rights and that, of course, everyone would act in such a way that no one would ever be harmed. Unfortunately, that's the world we want, but there's no such world right now. On the contrary. The world, as it is, has been spiraling into some strange spiral of terrorist violence, which has not actually been compared in the last 50 years. A lot of words have been said here today. I personally wonder if these people you've spoken to, and your clients, you even know what's going on in Syria and Iraq. A lot of words have been said about Palestine for the last time. Things need to be arranged there too, so that there will be peace, that people will respect themselves, that they can live peacefully and well. But do you know that the number of casualties in Syria is one hundred to a thousand times higher than the number of casualties in Palestine? Do you know that ISIS killed more Jews in a single day than the Palestinian victim in the last few years together, in a single day? Do you know that ISIS buried a group of living children and mothers with swamps because they refused to go to Islam? Do you know that it was yesterday that she rounded up her conscience that they killed 150 girls again, just because they said they didn't want to become ISIS fighters, because they could sell them, they couldn't sell them, they didn't have any rights? Did you watch, they themselves posted these videos on YouTube? Have you seen the images of the mass murder of children, young children? Do you even know what's going on out there? And can you imagine that someone from Slovenia is involved in these crimes? That there are more than 3,000 involved in these crimes, is this an official assessment of the people of Europe? And what's gonna happen? Sooner or later, and believe it to be sooner, this group will be militarily broken, the whole world has practically united against them. And that's when they're gonna slap back. They're coming back now, and then there'll be a lot of them. And people who once get used to living on some completely different, for a modern democratic world in a totally unacceptable way, will not just change back overnight. And they will pose an extremely high potential threat to Slovenia – and present it at this very moment – for people's lives, for security, for peace, for health. For everything. And as a result, we would expect him to approach it in one serious way. What, though, is the way the existing authority is dealt with? For months and months, the Commission is not appointed to oversee the security and intelligence services, although for the last time even the newly appointed director of the Security and Intelligence Service on the Commission has said himself that nothing can replace parliamentary control. At the same time, we are reading how terrorists walk through Slovenia, even those with international terrorists, how they are recruiting here, how people are leaving and still leaving, and how individual centres for transporting potential ISIS fighters are operating in Slovenia somewhere to the east. And on the other hand, when we propose, because we are trying to contribute as much as the opposition can, a solution that is a will to do something here, that needs to be done properly, that we have to deal with this threat properly, and then look for the points of the commas, no, something is not in the first paragraph, is in the second paragraph. We heard this earlier as an argument by a government representative. That's a terrible argument, I must say. When hundreds of children are killed there, suddenly 150 people are beheaded, this is the footage you have on YouTube, it's important to you whether something is written in the first or in the second paragraph. Great government, you really care about the safety of people and you have a great sympathy for what's going on there. This is the moment of truth. Then, you know, they count the actions, not the words. And that makes me wonder how this is even possible to be so insensitive. However, Slovenia has always been at the point of showing compassion for all who suffer in recent years. I wonder, indeed, why there are no more reports from that end, because people are probably the most aware of each other, but you as a politician should, what is the threat to peace, security and life and health of people there? That's where people go to school in some way. They're going to school for a time when they're going back to Europe. There are no borders in Europe; there is Schengen in Europe. This is no longer just a matter of Slovenian citizens, but all those who can stay here will be granted permanent residence, citizenship. Of course, today, when we talk about the adoption of the Penal Code, this concerns those who are Slovenian citizens. I don't understand how people from here can go to commit such crimes, and I think it actually has very little to do with religion, but very much with psychopathology. But let those who are called to do so do so. Our job as legislators is to set a framework to say what is right and what is wrong. And when we talk about criminal law, it's an ultimatum wario, as it's called, the last choice. But I'm sorry, with what's going on there, this last choice is necessary, because something has to be done. It is necessary to lay down all possible legal frameworks for this threat not only to our citizens and citizens, but also to face world peace in the strongest possible way. We can't say, it's happening somewhere, we're not interested, and we're looking at the dots and the commas say, yes, we're going to look there sometime, but we think everything's okay now, and we've never done anything. Yeah, well, if everything's okay now, if everything's okay in the law, then we should take action. The cases are well - known, documented, no one has denied them, and those who have participated in the conflicts themselves have, of course, displayed this in a more beautiful light, but no one has even denied it. But nobody did anything. Other countries are already acting. In Germany, participants in terrorism have already been convicted, those who traveled there and fought on the ISIS side. And in other countries too, this is being prepared and is already happening through the running lane. In Slovenia, the head in the sand is waiting for what will happen. This way things never end well. Once again, I wonder if you're all aware of what we're talking about. In one day, just yesterday, 150 were killed, if you want, some of them buried alive, after what we could read, these are official reports from United Nations bodies, even their own propaganda films, women, young girls, because they didn't want to get married. And these people will come back here, those who do it. You know what that's like? What is happening today is only comparable to the most horrendous Nazi crimes, with the Holocaust and with what happened in Slovenia after II. World War II, when you remember, the living girls were walled in the Hudi Jama. Exactly what's going on with ISIS today. I'm just wondering when some who claim to be left-handed have a negative opinion about it, is that because it is such a similarity — or what? That's incomprehensible. But it does not have this with some humanity, but with values, with respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms of the least gentle relationship any more. Something has to be done here. It is only necessary to draw people's attention to what is actually going on and to lay down a legal framework for those who do not take these warnings into account to experience what they deserve. In this case, it's a well-deserved punishment. Because you can't close your eyes in front of things like this. Unless you're on the same one as Europe was before II. World war, when everyone said, "Oh, for the Nazis, let's leave them some more, because they'll be fine, and then we'll have a nice life." In the end, there were tens of millions of dead. That's about how the atmosphere is right now. We do, we don't do anything, we don't do things our way. We just have to do something, ladies and gentlemen! Because, as he said before the President of the Defence Committee, when the first death victim is here, it will be too late. Now is the time until an effective military action is made there. But when this happens, and believe me, it's gonna come out of there, and it's gonna come out of there. And if then not all the organization of the whole society will be trained in Slovenia, all that is meant to protect people, unless an effective legal framework is put in place, then it will be too late, because we will face a threat that we will simply not grow up to. I think everyone who's debated here today has the feeling that it's happening out there somewhere. There's no place in this world anymore. Today is globalisation. All threats are global. And the worst part is, these methods, if you tolerate them, they slap you elsewhere. This has now been seen in Pakistan in an extremely tragic way where, for the first time in the history of history, terrorist action has been of a rank such as that of ISIS. That a couple, excuse the expression, the lunatics broke into school and killed over 140 children, and a few others. This is something to face. And that's what we need to be prepared for. But you need to be prepared in such a way that you do everything you can not to interfere with the rights of others. Therefore, we could take the basis of our proposal, improve it if you think that something is unclear in the text. That's what the government would do if that's all they wanted, and they'd take at least one step in the right direction. But if you just throw it under the table and you say, "It's okay now." I'm sorry, it's not okay. The fact is, in Slovenia, we have proven people who fought there, the fact that no one is acting against them, the fact is that we have proven people who have been trained to fight in terrorist groups, and there is no action against them. At least so far he hasn't. Then something's very wrong. Then, whether it's not the right legislation – and we don't think it is – or it's what polytology teaches. That only a third is a law, but two thirds is a law-abiding one. But if that's the problem, we should be all the more concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and on its behalf by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable Secretary of State with co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Islamic State is becoming a general threat to both the United Nations Security Council and the European Union and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. One of the biggest problems is the recruitment and recruitment of young Europeans and Europeans, among whom Slovenians are no exception. How to solve this, what to do and how to deal with Slovenian citizens when they return from foreign battles? This is not just a question for us, it is a question for the whole of Europe, and this issue is being dealt with by virtually all countries. Various solutions may be possible, but these must be well thought out and coordinated. The European Union's common strategy aims at a successful fight against this form of terrorism. Cooperation with the various public, including the media, will be needed in efforts to prevent the very successful recruitment of young people into this terrorist organisation. A good exchange of information between the members of the European Union will also be crucial to preventing new victims, as it is a whole new form of terrorism, which the world is only familiar with. Slovenia has not yet taken a concrete decision to combat ISIS, but is involved in international efforts to halt its terrorist activities. On Monday, the European Union's foreign ministers discussed a regional strategy to combat ISIS extremists, so in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that the agreed common strategy should be followed, not overtaken for the sake of national security. Indeed, on 24 September 2014, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2178, which defines the new term "foreign terrorist fighters". This was also discussed at the Ministerial Council of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which we welcome. At the same time, we do not believe that the deadline for tomorrow is to be translated into our legislation. The United Nations, in its resolution on foreign terrorist fighters, designates persons travelling to another country where they do not have permanent residence or citizenship in order to curve, plan, prepare or participate in terrorist actions or training in connection with an armed conflict. We agree that this is a serious problem facing the whole world, which is so specific that we need to be very careful and prudent when looking for a solution and entering into Slovenian criminal law. The proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code, submitted by colleagues and colleagues of the SDS Group, proposes that the term "foreign terrorist fighters" should be added in 111a, which would provide for the punishment of involvement in terrorist activities abroad, in particular participation in terrorist training. However, the proposed article 111a contains the legal signs already contained in the existing Penal Code. The recruitment, training and funding of individuals and groups with a view to joining foreign military police or other foreign armed groups is already covered by other articles of the existing Penal Code. The Penal Code also applies to terrorist acts committed abroad and to offences committed under an international treaty which must be prosecuted in all signatory countries regardless of where they were committed. The existing Penal Code may define certain acts more closely than proposed amendments, but these are too incomplete to be acceptable. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that this issue must be dealt with and legislation should be adapted accordingly. However, we oppose the proposed amendments because they go beyond the limits of legality in criminal law, so the novels of the Penal Code in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will not be supported. In the parliamentary group, however, we expect the Government to prepare a solution that will make sense to the issues of international terrorism and the already mentioned foreign terrorist fighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor. Get Dr. Jasna Murgel ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! During this time or more precisely in Christmastime and also in New Year’s time, we always wish for a lot of peace, health, etc. We always talk about peace, peace at home, in the family, in the country, global peace. Clearly, peace is one of the basic values. This peace is not given to us by itself, so the legislator of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has the task of taking care of peace. For peace at home, in the country. The Republic of Slovenia is an important member of the international community and is therefore responsible for global peace as such. Interestingly, in the 47th letter on World Peace Day January 1, 2014, Pope Francis, whom we all like to quote, was told by young people that in his letter for World Peace Day, he wrote: "Brotherhood, the foundation and the way to peace." And in his World Peace Day Member, for the 48th World Peace Day, which we will celebrate on January 1, 2015, he wrote: "No longer slaves, but brothers." Colleagues and colleagues, if we have shuddered until recently before Al-Qaeda's brutal terrorism, today we are also shivering even more before the organisation of the Islamic State. I don't want to name a country, I'm talking about an organisation of the Islamic State, because it's not a country, it's a terrorist organisation. That, by the way, was agreed upon by our foreign minister. And it is true, as colleague Peter Wilfan said on the Defence Committee and also on the Committee on Foreign Policy, that we have repeatedly and repeatedly discussed this terrorist organisation and what Slovenia can do, what the European Union can do, and what the international community can do to neutralize this brutal terrorist activity, which, inter alia, says that it is necessary to kill all the unbelievers. "Kill all the uncanny." Perhaps we are not talking enough about the persecution of Christians by ISIL. This is what the well-known European policy is talking about, including the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy in the European Parliament, Mr Elmar Brok. He is not embarrassed to stand up for the persecution and killing of Christians by this terrorist organization ISIL. Thank God, there is great consensus in the international community in the fight against international terrorism and ISIL. The Security Council Resolution No. 2178, unanimously adopted, I am also pleased that the Foreign Policy Committee has also given the Minister of Foreign Affairs full agreement to support, in essence, a statement by 60 partners, very good words, partners, 60 partners who, at the initiative of the Secretary of State of the United States, John Kerry on 3 December in Brussels, have also adopted this statement – a statement to combat the terrorist organisation ISIL. The activities against terrorism and ISIL cover a wide range of measures set out in the United Nations Security Council Resolution. Throughout activities in the European Union and NATO, Slovenia has been considered among countries expressing their strong concern about the violent spread of territory control in Iraq and Syria by ISIL. Like all European countries, Slovenia is also appalled at the killings and human rights violations of ISIL and other terrorist formations over members of religious and ethnic minorities in the region. The establishment of the Islamic Caliphate in Iraq and Syria and the export of extreme Islamism on which it is based poses a direct threat to Europe, the global world and, of course, Slovenia. Slovenia is a part of the international community concerned and united in this regard. I have a lively television performance by Mr Marjan Fank, former director of the criminal police, who said that the police have no legal basis so that, to put it simply, they could catch these so-called foreign fighters and also those who recruit people to participate in ISIL terrorist organisations. It is therefore perfectly logical that we have repeatedly, on my own, on the Committee on Foreign Policy and also on other bodies of the National Assembly, asked what the Government intends to do in terms of implementing the Security Council resolution in terms of amending legislation that will allow greater security, so that we can sanction, catch, condemn those who participate in these terrorist organisations. Europe is an open family of nations, so these foreign fighters with European passports are walking all over Europe and are a threat to all of us. There are always new and new dangers. Both by terrorist organisations and by new and new technologies being misused by some organisations. This means that legislation and all of us must adapt to how we can actually fight these dangers and ensure peace. We therefore welcome in New Slovenia the efforts of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party to change legislation in this direction, so that we can actually ensure greater security for our citizens and citizens through the implementation of this legislation. However, legislation must, of course, be implemented. It is well known who is in charge of implementing the legislation. Let me just give you one example. With regard to the operation of political parties not registered in Slovenia but outside Slovenia, we have specified in the Political Parties Act that these political parties should not operate in Slovenia. They're working. And that's what the authorities see, and no one's doing anything about it. No one's taking action. What can a Member do? Yeah, warn me one way or another. Of course, the Member is not the Minister, not the Director-General of the Police and so on. Let me conclude with the call of the majority in the National Assembly, New Slovenia, as it is said, will do so to support this bill, so that we let it into the next parliamentary procedure, improve it, adapt it, and I personally believe that this is the contribution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to greater security. And if you want more peace between us, in the European Union and in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u21	The word is Dr. Jasna Murgel, SMC. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, distinguished representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleague and colleague! The fight against terrorism is always a controversial matter. Measures against international terrorism are only the tip of the iceberg. The causes of international terrorism, however, are much deeper and broader and are at the very heart of the organisation of our entire international community. And we will have to deal with these causes and not only with the fight against international terrorism. But here, it is no longer intended to discuss the very phenomenon of international terrorism, which is becoming ever worse, taking ever worse forms. Here is my intention to discuss whether it is justified to adopt the amendment of the Penal Code as proposed. I would like to draw your attention to the recent contribution made by the Deputy Attorney General, High Prosecutor of the State, Councillor Mirk Vratčnik, at the conference of 8. 12. 2014, this is said recently, and this is precisely what he was talking about: the legal regulation of terrorist offences in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that this is a very competent person who can say something about whether our legal order is in line with the international law governing the prohibition of international terrorism. This article can also be found on the side of the U.S. Attorney's Office. That gentleman notes that the legal regime of the Republic of Slovenia is in line with all international instruments relating to international terrorism. Of course, the phenomenon of international terrorism is not new. As early as 1985, the United Nations adopted a resolution on international terrorism, followed by a large number of international conventions relating to this topic. The Council of Europe has also said something about this subject and the entire arrangement adopted by the international community has also been adopted by Slovenia in its internal legal order. The Republic of Slovenia also has harmonised legislation with the conventions of the Council of Europe. The Republic of Slovenia classified the crime of terrorism in its first criminal code after its independence, which was adopted in 1994 and had two offences of terrorism. Then in 2004, the Penal Code was revised. We have had an added crime of financing terrorism, a new 388.a. In 2008, a new amendment to the Penal Code followed and the legislator committed one act out of two crimes of internal and international terrorism and brought them together into one crime of terrorism under Article 108, which we have now. In 2012, the Penal Code was recast and Articles 108 and 110 of the Code were amended. The applicable Penal Code regulates the crime of international terrorism in general and special work. We have already mentioned Articles 108 to 111 of the Penal Code. The legislator assessed international crimes of terrorism as the most important and assigned them a place in the Penal Code at the very beginning of a special work in the context of the chapter on crimes against humanity. This chapter also contains all four crimes in the field of terrorism, paragraphs 108 to 111, as we have discussed. The High Prosecutor also mentions the resolution we are discussing today, the 2178 Security Council Resolution this year, and states that, after considering this resolution, it is not necessary to find new incriminations concerning terrorism and the phenomenon of foreign fighters. This prosecutor also descends into what is the phenomenon of foreign fighters in Slovenia. It is the five citizens who went to fight in Syria and returned to Slovenia after a certain period of time, and one was supposed to fall in the fights in Syria. Now there is important information, the Slovenian authorities do not have evidence that Slovenian citizens would be associated with a single terrorist group that is active in Syria or that they would commit crimes there. So, we have an arrangement on which we can prosecute them, but I warn you, what the Attorney General has found is not enough evidence. This is the basic rule of the Penal Code, so we cannot speak because the prosecutor has found that there is insufficient evidence to suggest that we did not pursue it. Apparently, it was an attempt at prosecution, but it's been established that there's not enough evidence. And that prosecutor also refers to the fact that, in addition to the crimes already referred to, in this case, other offences already punishable by our Penal Code, namely the offences of service in the enemy army, Article 368 KZ-1, and the criminal association under Article 294 KZ-1, could be used. So we have an arrangement, this arrangement is implemented, but the fundamental principle of criminal law is that if there is no evidence, then we have no charge that can neither be confirmed nor reached. I would follow this conclusion of the Attorney General, who is a very professional and competent person to assess whether our criminal code is already harmonised in this area and whether it is sufficiently regulated by the issue of international terrorism, and would find that our criminal code is correct and properly regulated, also taking into account the 2013 Security Council Resolution on this subject. Therefore, another breach in the Penal Code, which is a very sensitive system, will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u23	The word is from Dr. Vinko Gorenak, SDS. Let's get the mags ready. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you very much. At a time when about a thousand 500 or two thousand 500 kilometers from us cut people's heads off, at a time when they kill children when they kill women, at a time when Slovenian citizens in the territory of Slovenia are preparing to go down there and participate in this work, in the National Assembly there are incomprehensible things happening, completely incomprehensible things. Look, Secretary of State, you have presented your position on behalf of the Government, but this is your personal position, this is your minister's position. You and the Minister are responsible for this and only to a lesser extent the Government. The government is a formal proponent, you're writers. Mr State Secretary, if anything happens in Slovenia, you are personally responsible for what happened if it happens to me. Look, you say, "ununderstanding and unclear provisions." Yes, for God's sake, of course, this was written by Jean Mahnič, our Member, and his professional associates. And you have 400 or 500 employees at the Ministry who can fix it. But you in your ideology, in your left ideology, as you have proved a number of times before, and we know each other – how many, 35 years, if I am not mistaken, in your left ideology, of course you reject all of this. But you refuse ideologically because you are a signatory to the SDS, and you do not realize that you have all the mechanisms to say that the law is suitable for second treatment and you personally correct it in the second reading in the amendment form as you think it should. But it's not like you're selling us blisters, incomprehensible and unclear provisions here, that's why we won't support it. That's not true. You're the one who can turn this into an amendment. That's where we heard Mrs Popot's lawyer crossing the boundaries of criminal law. I don't have a comment. It's completely absurd and without having to talk to her about it, because, I don't know, if she's a lawyer, then she can't say anything like that. Look, next, coalition MPs. And I hope that you will come to some knowledge by the end of this day, even if you take one hour before the decision, and I warn you of the next thing. Look, Funk, the general or v.d. director-general of the police, he said - what? We don't have any legal grounds to keep track of these people. The Secretary of State, Mr. Stara, says, "Yes, they are legal bases." That's what Mrs. Murglieva says. But, Mrs Murgljeva, how can I believe you when I listened to you three months or two ago, how can it be taken away from Janez Janša's mandate, and you're a judge, and you voted like that, and then you got a slap from the Constitutional Court. I can't trust your knowledge. See what else she said: "Terrorism in the Republic of Slovenia can be prosecuted, that's what prosecutors say." Yes, of course it is true that he can be persecuted. Terrorism in the Republic of Slovenia. But what about terrorism down there, which is being prepared here, is a completely different question. And the Slovenian authorities say they do not have the data, Mrs Murgljeva said. That's the point. That's the point of what we're proposing. It's perfectly logical that someone can't be held responsible, I don't know, for murder, if that's where this murder was committed, because it was territorially committed there, and it was a crime or a terrorist act and so on. But if this is where he was preparing, here he was recruiting, here he was training, we have to stop these processes. And we want to stop these trials, for God's sake! I don't know how you're gonna feel. Mrs. Murglieva said that all the marriage cauldrons were fine, but there's obviously not enough evidence that something was wrong. That's the point, ladies and gentlemen! Give the police and the D.A. more tools so they can detect this in the phase before something happens down there. That's the point. Those who have already been down and have already participated in all these matters and have returned, three of them, one of them has died — but there is not enough evidence. We know they were down there, we know they were down there, and there's not enough evidence. Of course, there's not enough evidence, because the police can't give them because the police and the D.A. can't collect them under existing legislation. And who to trust now? I personally believe in Fanka. Why? He runs this crime police department. He'll be the one to press the tire first, and then the prosecutors will wake up if they do. And things are absurd from that point of view. I'm really asking you, and I'm calling, and I'm calling on SMC, because everything else is so unrelated, the voters, and you're the ones most responsible for taking a break, think about these things before you say no. And I'm asking you one more question. What does it cost you if you let the law go into further consideration and correct it in the way you think it should be corrected? After all, you say the government will prepare if it prepares. Smart policy, I don't know if you've ever heard of a hybrid. There are also hybrids. The one in the parliamentary procedure. Just like we said yesterday, there was our bill for fiscal rule and yours. You can put him in the same treatment, and then one proposal for the National Assembly comes out. It's the same here. If you intend to make any changes in this area, at least do so by allowing the marriage into another reading, by correcting it or by bringing it out in the form of a hybrid. Not for ideological reasons. Since he is the SDS's proponent, we will reject that. And that's what the Secretary of State does, and that's what you do. I don't understand this situation. But then you will be responsible if something else happens when another action happens here in Slovenia – and you can see that people are already being killed. How do you know the director of the Chemical Institute? You can see that we don't really know who killed him. Nothing. And maybe it's a classic mafia deal. I hear he's on his way. There are serious acts going on, and you head to the sand and nothing to anyone. Since the SDS is a proponent, we will not support it. Because it's in our brains and our fertility. Yes, I'm sorry. Imagine this behavior. And yet once again, let the marriage go to another reading and correct it, because otherwise you will be responsible for what will happen tomorrow or the next day. And the police won't react because they can't because they don't have instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u25	Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! Finally, I will make my procedural proposal, but I still wanted to respond to the debate by my distinguished colleague Vinko Gorenak. With most of your debate, Mr Vinko, I agree and agree, but one thing touched me and I think we should not communicate in this way. How is the Secretary of State ideologically defined? This is not the issue in this debate. For me it can be in the middle, it can be left or right, it is important to me how it relates to work and what products are produced by him or his ministry. That is why it would be correct and fair, and this is also a procedural proposal, Mr President, that in this part of the debate we should warn Mr Gorenak that it must not be debated that this is in some way a weighing of the ideologies of the left or right. That doesn't matter at all. It is important that we all have a good purpose and that we also regulate certain things in such a way as to benefit people and to safeguard human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u27	I will respond to this procedural proposal by taking this into account, and at the same time, my colleague Gorenak, in the future, I ask that where there is no need to state what ideology is behind the individual ministry, we simply do not disqualify it. It is also the fact that the Government has the opportunity to defend itself, so that the Secretary of State will most likely say what he has to say, so it is not a reminder or anything like that. You can procedurally, normally, you can say your thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u28	Look, if you tell someone that left-wing political options, left-wing ideology, that's probably nothing bad. Because if Mr. Secretary of State is on the left, I'm on the right. There's nothing wrong with that. And I don't know what would be wrong here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u29	No, no, no. I think we've come to this, but the government representative has the right to jump in at any time, so I give him my word. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would only like to take this opportunity to agree with you, Mr Member, that it is irrelevant how an individual is directed, even if the Secretary of State is an official, left or right. It is important, however, that the information that is spreading in this temple of democracy and in the public space is that it is true. Your statement has nothing to do with reality as far as I'm concerned. I am neither left nor right, but I am here as Secretary of State, and I have presented the opinion of the Government, which has been intersectorally coordinated. So it is not the opinion of one individual or minister. Moreover, as in the previous responses or consideration of this proposal, it has somehow been said, in my understanding, that we have inadvertently, indifferently commented on the inappropriate indication of an individual article or paragraph in this Article. It is also true that the details, given that we are discussing a concrete proposal to amend or supplement the Penal Code, which is an extreme tool in every democratic society to interfere with the human rights of each individual, we have also pointed out, for the sake of utmost care and thoroughness, specific shortcomings which could be problematic in the sense that this matter would be seen as an example of the law being supplemented if the existing law had a gap or had been subdued in this context. These details, given that I don't think it's necessary to stress that we all here believe this deeply, we despise, we reject these horrors that are happening there. But the subject of today's debate, as well as the opinion I have presented on behalf of the Government, is a specific article, the provisions of this Article, which must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, international acts and also consistent with the applicable legislation. And in this context, the details were exposed, not in the context of the expression of negligence, indifference or contempt or underestimation, if I recall correctly that the term was used. That's the first thing. With regard to this ideological orientation, it is only that your information or opinion is incorrect and, in fact, misleading in this context. Besides, I'd like to add a few things, if I have a word with you. It was clearly stated in the debate, and also in the introduction of the Government's opinion, it was submitted that the only qualified State authority deciding on the imposition of prosecution was the State Prosecutor's Office. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry has communicated with all state authorities, including the State Prosecutor's Office, in the preparation of this opinion or in the preparation of this opinion. As explained, the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Office is that in essence the current regulation in the Code of Criminal Procedure covers all the emerging forms of conduct and acts which, I believe, are well-intentioned, you are proposing in the new text of the article, so that they are already criminalised. On this basis, an opinion and reference on individual proposals or provisions of your law were made. With regard to the expression used, the difference is prosecution, crime or monitoring and control of certain conduct, activities or actions of individuals. Police in their legislation also have such so-called security powers, but at the moment we have a proposal for a new crime or incrimination of an individual's conduct. These are two completely different things. I refer this to you in the context of your statement or the remarks made by the Director-General of Police. It was also mentioned in the debate so far and was understood as an expression of some carelessness of the Government or the competent authorities in the concept of ensuring national security of the Republic of Slovenia that the National Security Council or the Secretariat of the National Security Council had not yet met. I can say that both the authorities and the members of these bodies have met, including the Director-General of the Police and myself in my current post as a member of the Secretariat of the National Security Council. A good week ago we discussed precisely these matters, discussed these issues and the Director-General of Police did not have any concerns or disagreements with the facts found, prior to the fact that such conduct was essentially properly regulated and criminalised in the current legislation in the Republic of Slovenia. But there is something else that is important, and of course I absolutely agree with this, because I am an advocate of an effective, honest, caring work, especially when it comes to public functions and public trust, which all public servants and public officials have. This resolution not only refers to the need to regulate matters or to ensure incrimination, but also to ensure effective implementation. This resolution concerns practically all Members of the United Nations who do not have as good or as comprehensive an area as that of the Republic of Slovenia or of the European Community. In this respect, it is more important for me and us, as responsible public function holders, to focus on measures to ensure the effective use of these tools, which are called laws or regulations. And just the fact that a number of procedures have been carried out in the near past, as mentioned for example, in foreign countries, that is, the fact that a forecasting process has been carried out or initiated in Slovenia due to such acts shows that there is a legal basis. In fact, if there is no reason to suspect such a crime in this case, which is the lowest evidentiary standard, then no measure under the law governing criminal proceedings can be applied. In these cases, four, five, Vrhnika and so on, house investigations have been carried out and so on, there are typical investigations carried out as part of a police investigation in the pre-trial procedure. And if the conditions were not met, that there were grounds to suspect that signs of such crimes had been carried out, that would not have happened. However, one of the Members or Members rightly stressed that one is an objective sign of a crime and the other is essentially a criminal responsibility. We are talking about contrived crimes and criminal responsibility means that proven is subjective, purposeful, that is, conscious, willing to carry out the signs of crime. That someone wanted to do what was forbidden, that he wanted to do what was forbidden, and so on. I don't want to go into details right now. These are the things that are then decided within the criminal procedure which is intended to do so. On the other hand, on the other side of the country, I believe that Slovenia is, and that it is becoming an increasingly effective democratic country, this is important and must be important in the future. So that this general debate on these atrocities, which are repulsive, and man does not find the right word, we absolutely agree, but this moment we are discussing a specific crime, concrete proposals, and the fundamental professional question is whether these proposals regulate something that the existing applicable law, criminally, does not regulate in Slovenia. And my personal professional belief, which is less important, the government's belief and the government's opinion, as I have described, suggest that the applicable law of this matter governs correctly. The fact that an individual or a group of individuals, and not just one, Members, does not think that it is right, but that all respect is worth talking about, is why we are here today, and that is why we have a different opinion as an expression of a careful, thorough, essentially thoughtful and expressive opinion. I think there is no reason why this opinion should now be used for such personal disqualifications, ad hominem arguments and so on. More importantly, it seems to me that we are talking in the details that the Government will certainly have, because I will propose if today I hear some compelling reasons for doubting that something is not properly or fully regulated, we will continue in the Government's regulatory programme, which has not yet been adopted, but in the preparatory phase, there is also a provision for amending the Penal Code for other reasons, including because of the Ombudsman's recommendations, but not in this area, and absolutely you will be able to think carefully, think carefully, discuss and decide and adopt the best solution in the final phase, either you as Members or the National Assembly. I would ask you further to avoid some insinuations that are essentially personal disqualifications because they are completely unnecessary here, but at the same time they are misleading to the public, for all those people who don't know us or me personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u31	I'll give you my word for the replica, Mr. Gorenak. At the same time, I'd like to correct a little bit of what I said earlier. At least the way forward is that anyone can defend himself and not directly speak to an enemy does not need my help in defence, so use it procedurally. Now I give you my word, Dr. Gorenak, for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u32	Yes, thank you very much. I knew it, Mr. Secretary of State. I've been a smart man for 35 years. Now you've done one such nice lecture, that's all right, but I'm asking you to complete what you said. My old aunt, who's 96, she hears and sees very well, and she's clean with her, she didn't understand you. It's a simple question. Three Slovenian citizens who were down there walk through Slovenia. I don't know if they were cutting their heads or not, whether they were involved or not, but they were in this army. Now they've come back to Slovenia, we've done their housework, and now they're not guilty, and they've been involved in this foreign terrorist organization or whatever it's called. My old aunt didn't understand. Say that, but in one sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u33	Look, I guess. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u34	The word has a government representative who can always take it, but he has to get it from me. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Darko Stare, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u35	I'm sorry. Thank you so much for saying that. Look, I can ask myself the same question. However, only the authorities which have these data and conduct these procedures may give an answer. I come from the Ministry of Justice, and I believe that the police have carefully carried out the forecasting process, I believe that the State Prosecutor's Office has carefully assessed the material, evidence and potential evidence and that it has only decided as it is. Besides, I don't even know if this procedure is stopped or not. You, if you know that, then you've obviously realized that there's not enough evidence, but personally these concrete procedures, which are, I don't know, I don't know, I don't have the authority to ask this moment. Furthermore, I think it is very important to stress that the independence and independence of law enforcement and detection bodies is a value and must remain a value and can effectively carry out their tasks in their context. I can't give you an answer very concretely because I don't know the actual situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u36	The word has magic. Andrej Tonin, Nova Slovenija. Get Mr. Igor Zorčič ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u37	Dear colleagues, do you know what's sad? That an important topic that we should discuss today has not developed any serious substantive discussion until some evidence of ideological orientation has fallen in one way or another. I cannot believe how in Slovenia it can be so popularly independent and nobody wants to be left or right – everyone wants to be independent. I don't know when we're going to learn in this parliamentary democracy that there's nothing wrong with being left or right. And every man also has some valuable starting point, some value standards that make it work and act. If I go a little further, I'll say, look, if you look at the U.S. government, it's not unusual if there's a Republican minister in the democratic government. If you look at the European governments, there is no problem that those who sit in governments either declare their direction or make their public statement. So I don't see any problem in this if we make it clear to everyone what direction we are and we're not ashamed of it. I've been swimming a little, and now I'm going to get to the point that we're discussing today. However, this matter disturbed me, and I had to warn because it was only now that such a concrete substantive debate had developed. Before that, it was very superficial. Everything's fine. Let's move on. It seems to me that too many of us are working together, that Slovenia is one small country, has no influence, terrorism is not our problem. It is true that, thank God, Slovenia has been so fortunate so far that in all the international operations in which Slovenia has participated, we have not had any dead soldiers. As far as I'm concerned, we're the only country in NATO that hasn't had fatalities in international operations. Thank God, I hope, I pray to God that I will keep it that way. As a result, these debates may not be as intense in Slovenian society and the Slovenian public as they are in other European countries. We were also lucky that our security authorities, from the police to the Owl, at the head of all potential terrorist attacks, prevented it. You know, there was an attack on the then Prime Minister Borut Pahor, someone was terrorizing the train with bombs. There was talk of an Albanian who wanted to bring even tank fuels to parliament and similar stories. Thank God the security authorities didn't do that. I'm sure if that hadn't happened, the discussions today would have been completely different and we wouldn't have taken everything with our left hand. Look, in one safe Norway, what happened in the case of Breivik. The acting of a lone wolf you can never stop. However, it is essential that this Parliament, this country, lays down all the grounds for the authorities, security authorities and authorities to pursue a good tool to face such threats. I'm guessing they don't have those tools today. And I'll tell you exactly why. And we're all talking about it. But the story is very simple, which must be understood by everyone. If we have the vindictive warriors who have gone to the Islamic State fighting groups and have returned to Slovenia, we cannot take action against them. The Islamic State or terrorist group is on the list of international terrorist organisations. Some of you say there's no evidence against their operation. I don't know. I watched TV reports where the person who participated in these terrorist organisations publicly admitted that she had cooperated. So we got a public confession. Otherwise, he didn't say he cut his head off, but he said he was a medic. But after all, he publicly admitted that he was involved in terrorist organizations. What could the state or police have done with him? All she could do was make an information interview and let him go. If this is an effective tool, then I really don't know how far things have come. But that's not an effective tool for me. Why is it very important that those involved in terrorist organisations be punished? Because a warrior returns to Slovenia, now there are only three, after we may have a problem like that in Germany, France, when this goes back to hundreds, thousands, these people will be part of our society, they will walk freely in our society, and they will make some kind of silent promotion for such organizations. So, in Slovenia, there will be nothing abnormal about going to war tourism, in the summer, instead of going to the sea, you go to Syria in July and August for two months, you do yours and then you return. Remember, those who are slightly older will remember the Balkan wars that during the 1992-1995 Balkan wars there was war tourism when the Italians went to Bosnian battlefields by 100 to 500 marks a day paid snipers to be able to – what? Very terrible – shooting people. I don't want Slovenia to be a safe haven where our boys and girls can go to fights in Syria over the summer and then walk around the country with us normally in September and October. That's wrong. They also said that the applicants themselves acknowledged that this proposal might be incomplete and that it still needs a lot of work and change. But that's no reason to swing it all and say it's not suitable for further consideration, nothing's gonna happen. It is important that the debate and the debate continue. I think that even those new Members who are in this House will show a different parliamentary practice by saying, okay, even if the proposal comes from the opposition, we will give him the opportunity to continue the debate. But since you have the majority, you will always be able to finish this law, just as you want it, because otherwise it will not be acceptable. But it is not right and it is wrong to stop this kind of debate and debate at the very beginning. I hope that we are all aware together that, in particular, this most extreme form of terrorism, the Islamic State, ISIL and so on, is a classic ordinary business, because these boys and girls abuse faith for their purely business, political purposes. I don't know if you're all aware that this terrorist organization only makes EUR 3 million a day by selling oil. Then you know what they can do and what they can do. However, there is no need to stress the use of extreme grips and extreme forms of violence. I don't know, I was surprised by the information that eight hundred fighters of the Islamic State could literally take over Mosul in Iraq, where 52 thousand Iraqi fighters of the official Iraqi army were stationed. This number worried me deeply, and I was appalled at it because it means that 800 people could literally take over some territory where thousands of soldiers of the regular army are stationed. Which means they're insanely motivated and also very well trained. For the time being, this danger is far from us, and today we have an opportunity to do everything we can to prevent it. And this proposal is one of the things. So that I don't think about it, if you all look at the Penal Code, from 105th to 111th, I believe you haven't had time, but you don't all have time to read about it, but, for example, article 11 says that everything is a crime that recruits for terrorism, which refers to 108. Article. Article 108 defines what Slovenia considers to be terrorist acts: "an attack on human rights and freedoms". A very broad concept could be addressed in this context: "the abduction or capture of hostages, the destruction of infrastructure, the hijacking of aircraft, the supply and use of weapons, the development of nuclear biological weapons, the threat of security, the disruption of water and electricity supply, the damage to a nuclear facility to assist in the preparation of other crimes, the collection of funds and the like". If someone reads these regulations very bureaucraticly and dryly, he will say, because, in fact, we in the Penal Code have completely all the tools and all the possibilities of pursuing potential terrorists. But, look – why is it not possible to pursue an effective persecution against the people who were there based on all these things? I expect the Government to raise this question and to respond effectively to it. And if at least there's a chance to take a step forward, then it needs to be served and not blindfolded and going to some prestigious game, who suggested it and who didn't. That is why I hope that this law will receive a positive green light today so that we can continue this debate [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u38	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. I must say, I'm disappointed. I am disappointed that, in this House, the threat of terrorist threats is clearly known only in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in Novi Slovenija and, as has been foretold, I believe that in the end, I also believe in the Alliance. As I hope, on the one hand, that as many people as possible are following this meeting and see who is really concerned with the security of citizens and citizens, on the other hand, I fear that if this meeting is accompanied by those who are referred to in this resolution because we are giving them a message today: Slovenia, a paradise for terrorists. Slovenia, the heavens for terrorists. Come to us, you will not be persecuted here. Mr. Secretary of State should know that. I should know that because he was Deputy Director of Owl, and I believe he knows this matter. By the way, at this point, he thanks the Slovenian media, which informs us of what is going on with terrorist fighters in general. Since we do not have a Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, neither can we ask the Director of Sova nor the Director of the Military Intelligence Service what the current situation is in this area. And if not, the government of Mira Cerar has managed to degrade the Owl in these three months with various acts, exchanges, with a variety of outflows of information from the agency to this level, that people have already rightly said that Owl has become some mob of coffeemakers who only walk through inn and draw things to their ears, who is with whom, what is happening and so on. Owl from several different sources, including journalists say so, has lost a great reputation in the international environment and has become an agency that is known for not doing any of the things in cooperation with foreign services as is necessary. I have heard from the Secretary of State that there is no need for change. Really? We have the 2008 Penal Code and you now convince me that we already knew what is going to happen in Syria and Iraq in 2008. That we already knew in 2008 what kind of resolution will come from the United Nations, which has been supported by all countries, even Russia, because it is important in our National Assembly and Slovenia to say that Russia also supports this. Not just the United States, but Russia. And this attitude towards this issue was shown by how you all jumped into the air when Slovenia was on the list of the international coalition. For many years there has not been as wide an international coalition in the fight against terrorism as it is now being formed. And Slovenia, instead of being proud to be involved in this, wonders and wonders, does not protest how they can even list us as countries fighting the Islamic State. Here you speak – the formulation legally. Okay. Let's get this thing open. In the second reading, we're going to make an amendment. I hear here the second paragraph could be replaced with the first. After the first bomb was cut here, are we going to argue whether this was a Syrian fighter or was he from Iraq? Here you give a message when we talk about topics when we get stuck on topics that are mostly legal. Even if you're disturbed by the fifth paragraph, we're going to amend it, we can put it out. The point is that today, when we have our first debate, we put this matter through and then we continue to talk. Things are vague, incomprehensible. I'll just read two. I will read the second paragraph first to make you happy: "Whoever joins a foreign military or police foreign armed group operating outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which is trained, equipped or mobilized within the meaning of the preceding paragraph, shall be punished with a prison sentence of at least five years." What's unclear here? "Who, with the aim of association of foreign military or police foreign armed groups operating outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which is incompatible with the laws and customs governing the areas of defence, the police, international law, the United Nations Constitutional Charter, UN Security Council Resolution 2178 on foreign terrorist fighters, orders recruitment, recruiters, training, financing training, equipment, financing equipment, mobilising individuals or groups of persons, shall be punished with imprisonment from 5 to 15 years." What's unclear here? Here it is clearer than in Articles 108 to 111, than we have now. And you say it's incomprehensible. The Islamic State is a terrorist organization, it has no status as a state. Then the MP here says that the Penal Code clearly defines Article 368, which speaks of serving in the enemy's army, and Article 369, which speaks of recruiting for the foreign army. You said yourself that the Islamic State is not a state. So he doesn't have an army because he can't have one if it's not an internationally recognized state. Then it's not the army. We know what conditions must be met so that a group can be called an army. And because of this, honourable Members, Articles 368 and 369 are automatically out. Marjan Funk, V.D. Director of Police, quote: "Last year, in cooperation with the partner services and with our own activity, we saw the recruitment of certain Slovenian citizens and their participation in the military areas, but the organisation of recruitment did not take place in our area. Slovenian legislation does not sanction participation in military operations abroad or participation in foreign armies." Again, it's not the army. "This cooperation cannot be equated with the crime of terrorism and other related crimes." Yes, and here you have the Director General of Police, who says it's not arranged. There's a man here who's the first of those who pursue these acts. And he says they don't have tools. Who do you believe now? The bureaucrats sitting in the office, or the man who knows what the situation is on the ground? Trust who? You say we have a basis. Those in charge of prosecution say we don't have a basis. Who's right? I don't think the one with the tools to pursue it is after all because he can't because there's no basis. And if I move on. These acts have already been criminalized in the Penal Code. To tell you the truth, I was pretty sure you didn't have to put that in at all. But we've just invested because of the words of the Director-General of Police. Because he said they didn't have the tools to deal with it. And when we say so, I also said that it can be pursued after 108th and 111th. A member. And then the next question – we have paragraphs 108 to 111 – why aren't these people being persecuted? Unfortunately, I cannot say all the things I heard at the closed session of the Defence Committee. We're lucky until the director of the Owl knows the names of everyone who participates in the fighting in Syria and Iraq, in mind. The French don't know them because they already have 500 people from France who are down. More than 3,000 people from Europe are already participating in fighting in Syria and Iraq. I think that we are all united here, even the military profession says that the Islamic State will soon be defeated. But here's the problem, because they're going to say, "Boys and girls, we're done here, go back, go back to Europe and warn us there, because you've learned well here." But is that what we want? When they're in first school, when they kill 100 kids when the bomb goes off on Presherno? Who's going to answer? Nobody. You were probably all informed that there was an action in Bosnia, where they captured one of the preachers of Bilal Bosnic, who also went to Slovenia. Everyone knew what this gentleman was doing. And he was allowed to walk freely on Slovenian streets and markets. What was Owl doing? What was the police doing? I know that the evidence that Owl has cannot be used in the same way that police evidence can be used. The owl's watching. It's a good thing Owl's watching. Nice. I've been watching a lot of things, too. What, then, can be done or done, and who can’t, is another thing. Austria. They now have exactly the same proposal under consideration, as proposed in the SDS. He's already been admitted to Bosnia. When I spoke to my Austrian colleague, I now ask you, Mr Secretary, what we have done in Slovenia so far to prevent recruitment and battlefield expenditure, he said that we have taken three measures in Austria so far. First, citizens under the age of 18 must not leave the country with strict parental permission. You've probably heard of those two 16-year-old girls who took part in the fights, even got pregnant, and now Austria won't let them come back. They also introduced the blocking of financial accounts or bank accounts to some Islamic organisations suspected of recruiting fighters for the Islamic State. But these people who are recruited in Austria – Vienna is one of the recruitment centers, and they also have a transition across Slovenia. What have we done so far to stop these people? Nothing. If we are – what are we because there is no information? And this view that this is all already defined here. I really want to know if it is, why there's nothing to be done about it. We do a police investigation, we find a weapon there, and we release a man — a humanitarian worker who has a gun at home. I don't know if all nurses have guns at home. This is similar to road infrastructure. We know, we know about some dangerous roadblock, and we're just waiting for a fatal accident to happen, and then we'll act. But then it's too late. I probably don't need to pay particular attention to what happened in Sydney on Monday. Is that what we want? And this will also happen in European cities when these people start coming back. All European countries are uniting, working on something, and Slovenia will obviously enter into force in the international public as a country, not as a supporter of terrorism, but not effective in fighting. So that nothing can be done to stop people who have a way through here. Slovenia, a democratic state – I do not know, but if the mandate of Members is unlawfully taken into account in a democratic country. Yes, human rights, we must respect them. Even when we were reading the strategy when we had a meeting of the Defence Committee, the rest of them had them, the 2020 strategy, it was under terrorism in the first place that we must be particularly sensitive to human rights here. I agree. With this law, no one wants to create any Guantanamo or anything like it in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. But when this minority, or terrorists, who I believe have human rights, begin to have a grave impact on the human rights of someone else, then I think the devil has taken a joke. I heard there was no evidence. The police say otherwise, others say otherwise. And if there is no evidence, they obviously have no material or basis to collect them at all. And with this novel, or with this addition to Article 111, we want to lay the groundwork so that they can begin to collect evidence if they do not have it now, as the Police Director has said. But we have double standards. Janez Jansho is locked up without evidence, but terrorists can walk here, and we all know they've been in Syria, and they're admitting themselves, but they can move freely around our country. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State, has the floor. Get Mr. Igor Zorčič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. As regards the issue of the confusion or misunderstanding of these provisions, these terms should be understood in the context of the structure of the Article. As I said before, we have identified ourselves with an opinion on the proposed solution very carefully. In the event that this structure, or this vocabulary, as it is said, the signs of the crime identified by this incrimination would remain, it would have implications for other crimes because the other in these articles, which you yourself mentioned, already contain all these signs of a crime. There is a difference between standardizing something that is illegal or even a crime, and then another is subsuming a particular case of life under these signs. And hypothetically, even if this incrimination becomes a law now, a concrete case of life needs to be subsumed in a tangible way under these signs. And the incomprehensible, unclear, was based on an assessment of the consistency of the Penal Code and of an individual article containing several offences. However, the structure is clearly a fundamental form first and then privileged and qualified. And in this context, there was a well-meaning remark. But as it is said, on the basis of all the signs proposed, I stress that I believe that, well-intentionedly, they are contained in other crimes in this chapter. As regards measures which are not of a criminal nature because you mentioned what Slovenia or the country is doing. This is not the subject of today's debate or this point, but I can say, and it is important that activities are also taking place in the administrative area in order to improve or strengthen measures that will ensure the effectiveness of the system or the national security system in this area. As regards international cooperation in this context, criminal and administrative and security and intelligence services, the matter is also pending and assessed as appropriate and satisfactory. Nevertheless, they take place within a system which has organised specific institutes in addition to those bodies which are national security entities, individual forms designed precisely to ensure permanent monitoring, to identify deficiencies and to propose or organise better or improved measures to achieve this objective, that is to respond effectively to such challenges. And if I go back again to what is the subject of today's debate. In our criminal justice system, where the concept of subjective criminal responsibility is established, whether it is a matter of intent or negligence, it is important, given the genetics of the occurrence of a crime that you have proposed to separate what someone in the head has as a naked slander, what is a preparatory act, what is an attempt, and what is an act that ultimately has some consequence. And such crimes are so-called preparatory crimes and are an exception, as a rule in every system in constitutional democracies, and as a result, care is even more important in determining signs and in subsumpting. Furthermore, in the general provisions concerning the application of these articles, according to the territorial fundamental principle, the validity of the penal code at home or abroad, our code speaks of an individual. Everyone, therefore, is not a so-called propria delinquent, so it depends on who can or could be the perpetrator, who can not, but anyone, anyone – "who writes". And in the general provisions where so-called forms of participation in fundamental crimes are regulated, we have another important provision which is also important for understanding the meaning or actual non-necessity of this proposal, given that this has already been regulated, this is so-called'successful instigation', as set out in Article 37. This means that if someone who causes someone to commit a crime for which it is possible to say three years in prison or more, and these are these crimes, regardless of the fact that this instigation, does not even try to do so, it is the fact that someone is incriminating someone, criminalized in us as a crime, and can be punished in the same way as for an attempted act, the one he is instigated to. And these remarks, or comments, please understand in this light, in the light of coherence, consistency and essentially the enforcement of nomotechnics, and in particular the principle of legality and determination, which is an axiom in every democratic society when the so-called criminal law or crime is regulated. Many times it has been mentioned, here is a very important principle of ultimima ratio, because it is the extreme means used against an individual. These places where these terrible things are happening, I'm getting my hair all over the place when I think about the suffering of these people there. That's where journalists go, that's where paramedics go, that's where people go with different purposes, and it's easy to define at this abstract level as a crime, just the fact that someone said, in public, of course, what's actually going on in some process, is another story, and it's true, and on this point, to implement assumptions in such a serious way that everything is bad, inappropriate, and it's kind of inappropriate, and most important, inappropriate and incorrect in terms of applicable law. And the vocabulary used in this opinion was intended to do so. And these are the messages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Zorčič, you have the floor, please. Get ready, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u43	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am this proposal for a law that has been thoroughly reformed, not least this is the area that I have been dealing with for many years, and I must say that it is absolutely groundless. The government has made this a little more precise on the professional basis, but according to the local word, it is a stalemate from the law. But it's not a problem, because you say yourself, let's complement it, let's give up various amendments and take it to change it to be completely different, but it's not an essential problem. The main problem is that there is no analysis of the situation in this proposal. I don't even know how you or you read this by chance on the Internet, that a resolution has been adopted, and now let's go propose something. You have not analyzed the situation even in the proposal, now you are trying to analyze it through some media statements by Mr Funk, but you are forgetting what you can read on the Public Prosecutor's website that the Attorney General said there is no need for that. High Prosecutor Mirko Vratčnik stated that there is no need to amend the legislation on terrorism. If someone said so in the D.A.'s office and someone else in the police department, it would be appropriate to consider whether this is necessary or not before making such a proposal at all. What I have analyzed as a lawyer is that I must fully agree with the Government, which estimates that all of this is already covered in the Penal Code. And it is not true that in 2008 we did not know about terrorism. Comrade Mahnic, we know about terrorism at least since 2001 and 2000, when things started happening in New York, and not to say that we knew about this terrorism before, it was just one such turning point. Amendments to the Penal Code also include these acts, these are changes that have been implemented in the law in 2008 and later. We haven't known each other since yesterday. What bothers me today is creating some sort of psychosis. That seems extremely incorrect to me. There we listen to a fellow Grimes when he describes all possible ways to torture a man and how they do it there. This has nothing to do with today's law. Then we listen to estimates that a bomb can happen on Prešeren's market and when someone comes to school and shoots me, I don't know how many kids. Look, this has nothing to do with fighting in Syria, either, if you say it will happen here. He's got nothing to do with it. And those acts you describe are already all criminalized in the Penal Code. I'm not going to go into a detailed analysis of this proposal of yours. You heard today, we have everything criminalized, if you want, and I'll tell you in which article. So we have recruitment, we have financing of terrorism, we have cooperation on the battlefields. And if someone from the police says they don't have a basis, it's really up to you before you propose such a law to solve this matter, even with the prosecution. Ask yourself whether it is really possible or possible, but not as such, to file a bill of some kind. Today we have also heard some estimates that there are no law enforcement tools. The prosecution tools are provided for in the Criminal Procedure Act, not in the Penal Code, to teach you about them. If they are not, it is necessary to determine again before the law changes, which tools are not available, but not to say that there are no tools. Tell me which tools, exactly, can you not eavesdrop, or can you secretly follow — which are not? Tell me, I don't know. But not come here with a suggestion of an evaluation like that over my thumb. In short, you have heard our reasons why this proposal cannot be accepted. Even if it were possible for the matter to be settled through some amendments, it could be increased in such a way as to grant these articles, which already exist. It is 111., 108., these articles are quite something, and it would be added there, perhaps a description of the crime would be extended, but today we have heard from our colleague Tonin that it may already be too widely written, so that it is also not a proper analysis as to whether this is covered or not, the State Attorney's Office has not taken part in this proposal, nor is the police, in short, the case over the thumb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The proposer has the floor, Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. I am grateful for this opinion by Igor Zorčič, a lawyer who voted in favour of the unlawful withdrawal of the mandate of Janez Janša, who has been annulled by his decision by the Constitutional Court and has thus demonstrated how he is a top legal expert. I don't know, I'm gonna ask the Constitutional Court if this is more cumbersome than your opinion, on the basis of which Igor Zorčič legally denied Ambassador Janez Janša's mandate. I agree with you that terrorism has not existed since 2001, but – Has ever been terrorism so close to us since 2001? Have Slovenians and Slovenians ever mentioned any involvement in terrorist acts since 2001? And I'm asking further where the Penal Code contains incriminating training and where the preparatory actions are. Where is incriminating training and preparatory action? The fact that it has nothing to do with it makes it difficult for me to agree because we are following this United Nations resolution 2178. They could also say that we have already adopted resolutions after the 11 September attack. Apparently, the United Nations is also wrong in the opinion of SMC lawyers. Should I call Fischer to the D.A.? I'm gonna call Fischer to the D.A. so I can get in touch with him. [[…]] To ensure that a parliamentary group aligns itself with the prosecution, what law or amendments it proposes. I hope that SMC Members are not seeing Fisher because that would really worry me. This would really worry me if SMC Members are meeting with the Attorney-General. Maybe that's why something came up yesterday to vote on one immunity. Listening, tracking, I advise you to read the Law on Owl, where it is written, what Owl can do, and above all it is written, when, where and how the prosecution can then use this evidence or not use it in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Here's the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u47	Look, the thing about the Janez Janša vote is now completely inappropriate. But I can only tell you that I voted only once, and that is when the vote was that he was not allowed to do his job as an MP despite the judgment, so I voted against the decision. But if you want to know why I voted because he's been convicted, you can correct me if that's not true. It's probably still there. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Igor Zorcich. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Here you go. Let's get Mrs. Marinka Levicar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. I have to start by saying that I am pleased to discuss Mr Zorčič, because compared to yesterday's debate, when we closed the volunteer traineeship, there is visible progress and the debate is substantive. It wasn't yesterday. I support the new Penal Code, not because it is from my parliamentary group or because it is proposed by Jean Mahnic, my friend, a colleague, but because I work in life so much better than curative. And since I do not want to talk about this resolution of the United Nations anymore, when it has been said so much, I would like to say that we have already talked a lot about the phenomenon of extremism in Slovenia in the previous term, especially in terms of, say, religious and left-wing groups. There we found that there are some groups, but that is not the end of the line either because, of course, this investigative commission ended its work with the end of the term of office of the National Assembly. But perhaps everyone here at this point could agree that this phenomenon of extremism, which has happened to the Islamic State in the world, is something else altogether. Forgive the expression, but not only is it a violation of human rights, but it is a literal slaughter of people. And for what it's been a long time, I don't think we've been witnesses in the world. I myself began to monitor this issue a while ago, and unfortunately I have seen many scenes on social networks and on some profiles that have given me thought. And the conclusion that I have adopted in the end, after all these events in the international community, I think we are not prepared in Slovenia for this example. Some countries in the international community have already responded well and appropriately to these threats, there has been a lot of talk about the case of France, Italy, even in Austria, very strict legislation is being prepared, and we feel that we have fallen asleep in the past. Not only is this possible because we are a small country in the international community, but also because we may have underestimated this extremism in the world. As a result, we fell asleep preventively and the legislator or the executive branch of the Authority did not monitor this phenomenon too closely. But I think we haven't missed the last train yet. We still have time to join the other countries of the European Union that have gone into action, which, of course, will do their utmost to protect their citizens and citizens, as well as to prevent this extremism from rising in Europe. We have heard the information that already 3,000 Europeans and Europeans are participating in foreign battles. That's worrying. Especially because we have also seen Slovenians participate in these actions. Another danger is that in neighbouring Austria, where this is currently being regulated, one of the major or main gatherings for the recruitment of fighters and the journey to Sarajevo is also taking place through Slovenia. And the fact is that this phenomenon is present in us, that activities in this direction are taking place on our soil, and of course we do not have the tools to act properly. We had, even in the media, not just our cases, not only that it's adults, but I would like to warn for example two young girls from Austria who moved to Syria, who got married there, who got pregnant, and now, of course, they want to return. And that also points to one big problem. Yes, when this mission is there or I do not know what to say to it in Syria and neighbouring countries, it is likely that these fighters will return to their home countries. And how will Slovenia then act? Are we going to allow this phenomenon to spread on our soil? I don't know. Apparently, it all shows that we will, because we don't have receptions. We ourselves saw that the people, including the Slovenians, had returned and there was no basis for investigating or overseeing them. The United Nations resolution requires States to prevent the recruitment, organisation, transport and equipment of fighters. How we're going to prevent this, I don't know, because the fact is that some of the activities are going down on our soil, and we're not ready for that. I also disagree with the Government's view that we already have good legislation, because if we had legislation in Slovenia, we would not have any problems with anything and would be considered a state of prosperity. But Australia is also considered a state of prosperity, and look what happened there. A massacre, I can tell. I would add that we, as Slovenia, may have underestimated social changes and movements in the world. Who imagined that such changes would take place in the world a year ago? Not to speak from the Islamic State to Ukraine to the Russian crisis or to attack the sovereignty of other countries. The changes, I think, will go even faster in the future. Politics will have to adapt more. But I can see it's not really in the best interest. And even for such laws that require rapid response, no one should give a hundred days of time to anyone, for in hundreds of days it is all over. We've seen Crimea. It didn't take them a hundred days to annex the country. I would add that the law is at first reading, and it is also somehow proposed that after it is adopted, it be supplemented, corrected, by the opinions of the Government, other institutions. I would point out once again that the police have also noticed an inappropriate rise in extremist movements in Slovenia in relation to the Islamic State. But what if he says he doesn't have the tools to fight it? Last year, in cooperation with partner services and with our own activity, we saw the recruitment of certain Slovenian citizens and their participation in war zones. That says it all. We don't have to be doctors, and I don't know what all of it is, all of it. Because if we can read and think logically, it means that activity is going on here. Slovenian legislation does not sanction participation in military operations abroad or participation in foreign armies. This also says that we do not have a framework to deal with this. And it's another thing where you fell asleep just like the government, and it's the opposition's job to control you, pressure you to approach concrete solutions. But after 100 days of Mira Cerar's rule, I feel like there hasn't been a hundred days of work, but a hundred days of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs. Xenia Root Kramar, you have the floor. Here you go. Let's get Mr. Peter Wilphan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's debate was held at a wide range of levels, but I can see that it was much wider than we wanted and as we probably expected. Perhaps I would point out here just a few points that I believe are worth mentioning, especially so as not to give the wrong impression of those who may be watching us today. One is this international level. I would like to stress explicitly, and you are probably also aware of all those with whom we are sitting together on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and also on the Committee on European Affairs, that Slovenia has, in the international context, repeatedly highlighted and condemned terrorist acts by an organisation such as ISIS and has taken a firm stand against any organised terrorism and any other form of terrorist action. It has explicitly defended respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. That must be said explicitly. It also participates in all activities, proactively participates in all bodies, institutions which, at international level, condemn such acts and which defend respect for human rights throughout the world, not only in the Middle East, but in Syria and Iraq. This must be said explicitly that we would not make the wrong impression that we are here indifferent and simply allowing things and that we are looking out of the chair and watching what is happening in other parts of the world. No, on the contrary, we are not indifferent, but when we act, we cannot go beyond the fact that our obligations on the other hand are limited by the rights and respect for the rights of others. And that's the second moment I'd like to point out. Security and freedom are likely to be assessed so quickly on different shores, but when we judge it in terms of respect for human rights, we see that they may not be on such different shores. For when we talk about security, which you keep reminding your colleagues in several debates today, we must not forget that on the other hand it can also mean limiting freedom. And when we restrict freedom, we can violate someone's human rights. And we may also need to think in this light. So we judge all these three moments at the same time. So much for that first level. The second one we are talking about today is the specific proposal for a Article on the Penal Code, which is what we are talking about today. And I am of the opinion, and I have also taken a close look at your proposal, as well as the other provisions of the Penal Code, which I am considering solely from a substantive point of view, not who has put forward the proposal, but, once again, substantively, it is important that we discuss the content. Is this content valid for inclusion, or is it already in other articles of the Penal Code? And, I believe, after all that I have examined and also looked thoroughly at the proposal that is before us today, that all these substantive provisions are in fact already in the Penal Code and that there is no need to create or incriminate something that we already have included. And what we have included in both the special work and then the special part of the Penal Code. This needs to be carefully considered. And one more thing is that Slovenia has already respected the international treaties and the directives adopted by the Council of Europe through the changes made under the Penal Code and has actually fulfilled this commitment. That is why I do not think there is really a need today to incriminate a new crime, the signs of which are also included in the other articles and which are already contained in the Penal Code. It is true, however, that it is not appropriate in this place to give the public a sense that this is an extraordinary situation which occurs in Slovenia or Slovenia. I don't think so. If I touch Mr Wilfan, who spoke of defence, I believe that the existing legislation probably does not prevent any action plan from being adopted if we consider that this would be necessary in order to ensure the safety of citizens and citizens. [[…]] However, once again, I think that the substantive proposal before us today is already included in the Penal Code and that there is no need for any additional incrimination in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. I think we must also follow the trend on the international environment in our legislation. As a student of defence, I am more closely following these topics, as regards security, terrorism, intelligence services and so on and we probably have a lot of definitions, I would say, we probably have a lot of different opinions about what terrorism is, but we do have in our 108th article that these are acts that threaten the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, other countries or international organisations. And that is what I agree with you, yes, after the 108th article, we could pursue this matter. However, we do not have anywhere written "inciting these acts" or things that are related to them follow. Terrorism is changing. If we have so far been used to terrorism as a single phenomenon, if I can call it that when they make a terrorist attack on a building, on another public object, or not least on a place where many people are staying, because this is the essence of terrorism, it must be effective, there must be as many victims as possible, and at the same time the message must be clear and, above all, it must be clear who is who is reporting this matter. If we have been used to terrorism in some classical form until recently, if I may say so, in 2001 in New York, then attacks in Britain, this case is completely different in Spain. This is a thing that's not a unique event, this is a thing that's been going on for months and that gives a clear message, fights against all those who aren't on the same side, defends teeth, see what's going on there. I'm sorry, but I like the Western or European way of life and not that way of life. For this reason, these changes and these trends should also be followed in the Penal Code. That is why we have proposed this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Because if the chief of police says he doesn't have leverage for it now, someone says he has them, I don't know, but maybe you don't read the same criminal code or the other thing, if you want to, find out who's right and who's wrong, and whoever's wrong, pack the suitcases right now and leave, there's nothing more to do in this position. If the police director doesn't know what his powers are or what he can use and what he can't use, and on the other hand, if the prosecution doesn't know. After this debate today, I expect someone to pack either Funk or Fisher, someone has to answer. If they're explaining things differently or if someone doesn't know. I agree with my colleague from SMC, with Mrs Ksenija, with the emphasis on opposition and that Slovenia has stepped in to defend human rights and freedoms. How's that? With dispatches, with letters, with statements. A truly effective fight against terrorism, a truly effective fight to write on paper that we advocate that there must be an international fight against terrorism, to commend those who fight against it. But the fact isn't, there's no action. Only the flickering of the shoulder, with these dispatches and with these encouraging words for those who do something, if I was correctly informed, did the Netherlands not put on this list immediately at the beginning, were so ill-willed and so offended that they immediately sent F16 fighters, hunting planes over the Islamic State. And we're wondering why we've been classified. I don't think I'd like to hear what they're going to say. Given the support of both America and Russia, I'm surprised. If at least it's incriminating, as you say, then let me say in military terms, "Why is there no action?" Why do we allow these people to recruit so that financial flows can take place, that all of this is happening on our soil? That we have people coming back who have a house investigation, and then they put the blinds down in the houses, and they barricade themselves, they don't answer the questions, they don't answer the press, they don't answer any other investigative bodies? The lady opened an important topic – and here the spears are always broken – of the relationship between security and freedom. I agree. Some put security first, others put freedom first, the thin limit, or we can say that in recent times, security has often crossed the border at the expense of freedom. Like I said, no one wants Guantanamo on our soil, even though these acts of concern are exhilarating. But I cannot agree that this is not an emergency. I think that Slovenia is facing this for the first time. I know what a shock it was on all sides when we heard that one of the Slovenians had fallen into Islamic countries. As I say, we have an extraordinary situation. For the first time, Slovenians are active, at least not knowing that they are active in these international terrorist groups. And what we're saying is that there's a bomb somewhere else that could happen from Sydney or anywhere else. This isn't a scarecrow. Look, these are real facts. If someone in Australia said that it would happen, the Australians would probably ask him after his health by Monday when it happened. You're saying it's necessary to judge what the situation is so that we don't go too fast and so forth. I've been listening for three months, we'll study, we'll think about it, we'll need a little more time to make up our minds and so on. Yeah, let's do it. We are already in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is why we have tabled this amendment, but we have tabled this proposal for Article 111 because we do not need months and months to judge because I believe that the government has much work in all other areas, although it has significantly more resources than the Slovenian Democratic Party for such things. And if we're going to judge and decide for a long time, I'm afraid there's going to be a scenario here that we don't want that nobody wants. Above all, believe me, no one wants to say, personally, "You were warned because we suggested it."
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Wilphan, please, you have the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. I would add just a few words to this presentation of the position of the Group before that. In fact, it is not really that much here today, or perhaps even a proposal before us, and it is completely irrelevant whether this proposal by the SDS is bad or incomplete or inappropriate. It's actually an invitation to the government to do something in this area. It is the opinion of our group that we do not wait for a terrorist event to happen in Slovenia, that we will have great damage, that we will also have victims, and then we will definitely have to take certain measures overnight, change legislation, and then, of course, we will also be in violation of human rights, and to a large extent, because otherwise there will be no school, because it will be on the nose, in panic, in fear and so on. And in this sense, of course, it is also necessary to look at this possible or certainly at my support for this proposal, that, of course, we once again urge the Government, in particular, to do something now, immediately, in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thanks again for saying that. It is a bit unusual, given the circumstances I have already presented in the opening part, but today this is seen as a dilemma between freedom and security. What we're proposing has nothing to do with, excuse me, interfering with freedom. But if someone thinks that it's going down, that you're participating in ISIS, that you kill a few hundred children, that you slaughter a few women, and that it's a reflection of freedom, I'm sorry, and then we have a super institution in Gorenjska that deals with cases that they think are freedom. It's not freedom. Freedom is that you defend the right of every individual and your own right to human rights, among which is the right to life in the first place, and the right to respect, the right to personality, all that no one has there, and above all there is no one who is a woman's sex. And that is not freedom if we say that one who goes there and participates on the side of crime is active in this or just allows him to participate in this, that he has to be held accountable for his actions. Freedom cannot exist without responsibility. And that's why it's really going. That is why I do not understand these reservations when we propose only that cooperation in terrorist organisations be properly sanctioned and punished in all cases. If any formulation is unclear, as some say, we can improve it, we can find better solutions, but something has to be done, because obviously the current situation does not fit. This is best proved not only by the words of the police director, who himself said he could not act in accordance with the legislation in force, but also by the fact that at least five cases were known when people actively participated in or carried out at least a school for it. Even if it is unclear whether he has actually continued to cooperate or not, nothing has happened to anyone. Apparently, he canceled all the surveillance, canceled the prevention, and canceled all the sanctions. Then don't say everything's fine, obviously something's not working. What works isn't exactly what protects human freedom. For the freedom of every individual is limited to the rights of another. If someone goes, and far away, you may have some sense again that it's out there somewhere, but today the world is global, today there are things there, tomorrow with the plane here, but if someone goes there and there participates in crimes, it's not freedom, it's no reflection of freedom, far from it, just the opposite, it's an intervention in the freedom of someone else. Therefore, what we are proposing is the defence of values, the defence of human freedom, the defence of security, the defence of the state, of all citizens and citizens. If you just shake your head and nothing happens, then, excuse me, it's a big mistake! The message of this is wrong. The one who shouldn't have come from here. From here we should have a clear, uniform message, I firmly believe, with the consensus of all that freedom, respect for each individual, either here or there, is something that we all stand for because it is a matter of respect for fundamental human values. And that we are willing to stand ready to do something about it, because freedom has to be defended over and over again. Freedom isn't just given. Freedom of the individual, freedom of the state, freedom of the community, freedom of the whole of humanity is something that needs to be defended every day, over and over again, and defended in actions that, unfortunately, as some of you predict today, we will not see here. I think that's too bad. It is then only one message that the coalition, which now has about 100 days, has not yet taken any decisive action in the field of the economy in order to drive the economy to revive to the point that they would actually start with some new development cycle in order to compensate for all the falls that we have witnessed, does nothing for safety. The only message a person can get in the absence of determination, the absence of action means that this coalition not only endangers the economic success of the country, that it threatens the well-being of future generations with further indebtedness, but that it also threatens the freedom and security of the individual, because it is not prepared to face with responsibility any threat that is here today, which will be even more present among us tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Stare, Secretary of State, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I would like to stress once again for the conclusion on behalf of the Government, because I think it is really worthwhile and meaningful, namely in this very interesting and useful debate, in this informative sense, it is incomprehensible to realize that it is very important to realize that good decisions are based on quality information and knowledge of some subject. Mr Member, you yourself have previously found that in the reply to the Member's statement or statement that the matter is regulated in Article 108, but there is no incrimination. It has already been very clear in the debate that all forms of participation, including instigation, have been regulated and adequately criminalised in general work. Moreover, even the so-called failed instigation is criminalized for all crimes for which a prison sentence is prescribed for three years or more. So from this point of view, it seems to me that this knowledge is important to establish that there is no real need to standardise what is already standardised. Security concerns are absolutely important and must be a priority every time, I am deeply convinced. But in each state body, and especially in the authorities of the state administration or in the executive branch of government, we have a very comprehensive mechanism, comparable to the countries of the European Union, and it works effectively. Participation in the international mileage is also quality and effective. The fact that there may be and are active people in our space who may also be subject to certain criminal proceedings because they are essentially criminal in their conduct, and if at some point there is no procedure, does not mean that it is not under the control of the State or, if there is a procedure in a neighbouring or foreign country, does not mean that it does not mean any cooperation or the product of the activities of our authorities. This is simply because I want to point out that if something does not happen or is not visible, it does not mean that it does not exist. As far as the procedures that have been under way with us are concerned, it is portentous because of the suspicions of such crimes, however, it is important to stress, as has been said, that we live in a democratic rule of law and that the right to freedom and human rights of an individual in criminal proceedings are important. And I believe that in some procedures, which are already or are not yet completed, the authorities will carry out their mission properly, legally and in accordance with our Constitution. The current regulation in the Penal Code of this area, I am convinced personally, professionally and otherwise, the opinion of the Government, which is broad, has been repeatedly stressed and I reiterate, the most qualified body in this country to determine whether an act has any sign of a crime or whether the conditions for prosecution are met, is the State Prosecutor's Office. And the Public Prosecutor's Office has no doubt found that the regulation is consistent. It also fully covers such emerging forms or actions of individuals that you consider in your proposal for incrimination. The argument that the neighbouring countries regulate these matters very actively, intensively and impromptuly in view of the resolution adopted in the United Nations Security Council does not mean that they are doing more. It may mean that they are doing something that is not yet criminalized or adequately regulated and will have some change, a supplement. The fact is, in a comparative sense, Slovenia has relatively good, I could say, exemplaryly regulated such crimes concerning the fight against terrorism. And once again, I stress that it is never sufficiently designed to ensure that due diligence is sufficient to manage such risks, such as terrorist acts, this is simply unpredictable, but, given the insight and activities of our national authorities – in the broader sense of justice and law enforcement authorities – I can say that activities are ongoing and that concern for inaction or inefficiency in terms of proactive action is overstated. But as it is said, this is an area where things are very unpredictable, and just as any minute can happen another crime that is also terrifying, whether it's murder, rape and so on, it happens, it can't be affected. However, it can be influenced at all levels earlier to make prevention as effective as possible. For this, of course, we can all do a lot as citizens, institutions, especially and of course, if it already happens that it is an effective response from all state authorities. For this reason, I would like to point out once again that, despite a careful review and examination of this proposal, which we have considered to be well-intentioned, we assess and feel that it is not necessary because such matters are already regulated and adequately criminalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, please, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you, Vice President. If everything is in order, then obviously we do not need this proposal. But if it's all arranged, why isn't it implemented? This reminds me that we have a law on the seizure of illegally acquired property. And how long has it been gone? I think there was only one case that was also published in the media. We have a thing that we don't do. These words of yours, Mr Secretary, have really aroused fear within me, and I think in any other of our citizens and citizens. Because this means that our services obviously, despite having levers, have grips that can be used, do nothing. They don't serve them. In Del there was an article by the Slovenian-Bosnia Association in extreme Islam. The competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina received 15 alleged extreme Muslims suspected of terrorism as part of the Damascus action. Among them was Bilal Bosic, who opened the prayer room of the Sunite Muslim community in Ljubljana in January 2011. The company that opened the prayer room also saw Owl. The operation of this company was detected by Sova, who found two years ago that radical Islamists are not a direct threat to Slovenia's national security, but this could change in the future, two years ago because there was no ISIS. Sunite Muslim companies El-Iman and Ensarud-Din registered in Ljubljana, according to the Soviets, are visiting Wahhabi preachers who advocate violence against the West. According to our information, the Agency is expected to detect two preachers from a range of Bosniak wahabits whose names will not be disclosed on security concerns. According to our available information, however, they are linked to Bosniak and the advocate of extreme Islamic ideas. The three are supposed to have contacts with some radical individuals and groups not only in the Balkans but also in Austria. What do such people do in their freedom, or why does no procedure run against such people if the media are already writing what is going on? Then what evidence does the police have to have? And there's only one more interesting thing, which also puts exactly the opposite of what you said, from the Repoter article Jihadists aren't coming, they're already between us. In 2012, the intelligence, Sova said, discovered and informed law enforcement authorities that a Macedonian Albanian planned to run into one of the government buildings with a full Petrol tanker. The terrorist attack was prevented and the Slovenian security authorities were supposed to be accompanied by two Muslim societies, okay, I've said this before. An undisputed Albanian terrorist came from Macedonia, according to an area where at least one famous Jihadist or extreme Islamist training centre is located between Debro and Tetovo. In Slovenia, he was a physical worker on temporary work. When they found him, they couldn't expel him. What if we have it all arranged? What if we have everything arranged? If they couldn't expel him, even though he threw Petrol's tanker in the air, I don't know which building, probably not from an empty one? I don't know who's right here right now, who's wrong. Just like I said before. If the prosecution on the one hand says that everything is okay, even at international conferences, on the other hand, the police say, and apparently the police here couldn't have done anything, I'll trust the police. And seriously, let the government talk and let someone draw the consequences. This debate was to explain what is happening here, given that we do not have any body to consider it. I hope once the commission is set up to sit down with the Owl, with military intelligence, with the police to say what is in the legislation, what is possible and what is not, and that this commission then proposes a novelty that will be widely supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. If you also wish to discuss the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government, please apply by raising your deadlines, applications will be made at the end. Please sign up. There's no report. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 15. On the eve of the day, the proposal recommended in connection with the issue of investment in Block 6, thermoelectric equipment and its impact on the business of thermal power plants, D. O. O., and the holding of Slovenian electricity plants, D. O. O. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 20 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 20 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Daniel Krivac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u63	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The issue of non-implementation of decisions and commitments by the competent ministries and the Government regarding the issue of Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant has been dealt with several times both at the meetings of the committees and at the meetings of the National Assembly. However, as the warning has so far failed, most things need to be highlighted again. Block 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostanj represents one of the largest energy investments and one of the largest investments in the history of the Republic of Slovenia in general. The decision on the appropriateness and usefulness of this investment has been drawn up through several documents. A key decision was the inclusion of this investment in the Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023. In the April 2006 investment programme, the investment in Block 6 was estimated at around €690 million, and in November 2006 the investment in the revised investment programme was estimated at €70 million. The reason for the increase in the value of the investment was that NIP 1 was prepared on the basis of suppliers’ offers. During that period, the price of passive electricity on the stock exchanges ranged between €55 and €60 per megawatt hour. During that period, a climate-energy package was also adopted, which committed the country to reducing CO2 emissions, more efficient use and more renewable resources. The most important objectives of the TEŠ 6 project were to ensure safe, reliable and competitive electricity supply, the use of domestic giant lignite for the production of electricity, the improvement of environmental protection in relation to existing thermal power plant blocks. By 2008, the price of band electricity was rising sharply to around €90 per megawatt-hour, and by 2008 the investment in Block 6 was assessed as economically acceptable and justified. By mid-2008, no one had predicted significantly different situations in energy markets in the coming period. No one has predicted such a huge fall in the price of electricity. At the end of 2008 and from the turn of 2008 to 2009, there was a significant change in circumstances, an economic crisis prevailed, electricity consumption, in particular industrial consumption fell and this resulted in a virtually instantaneous halvation of the electricity price on the markets. With the advent of the financial and economic crisis, the price of the electricity belt collapsed to about €40 per megawatt hour. The value of the investment in March 2009 with NIP 2 increased to EUR 340 million, the estimated own price of electricity produced at that time was 65.9 euros per megawatt-hour, much higher than the prices at the stock exchange. As a result of these circumstances, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party in early 2009 gave the initiative to the then government of Borut Pahor to reconsider this investment due to substantially changed circumstances. At the time, in 2009, there was still time to stop the project of Block 6, Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj, but the government of Borut Pahor continued the investment despite warnings. Thus, in 2011 the investment already exceeded the value of EUR 400 million billion. On the basis of the Government's February 2012 conclusions, the fifth amendment of the investment programme for Block 6 was made in September, after which the revised investment value was set at EUR 302 million. In 2012, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for long-term loans of EUR 440 million, leased by the Termoelectrica Šostanj to the European Investment Bank for the financing of the project. The law was then proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed Member of the Social Democrats, Mr Happy Meh. The law was introduced into the legislative procedure on 2 February 2012. Before that, an identical law was rejected in the previous call of the National Assembly, which was introduced into the legislative procedure in 2011 by the then Member of the Social Democrats, Mr Bojan Kontic. There were no conditions for the granting of guarantees in both draft laws. It was a law that was supposed to allow the state guarantee for the TES 6 project. In the course of the examination of this law, the National Assembly supplemented the following provisions: "The Minister responsible for Energy and the Minister responsible for Finance, before signing the guarantee contract, conclude a relationship agreement setting out the framework for the implementation of the project in relation to: firstly, the reduction of the investment value of the project; secondly, the conclusion of the contract between TES and Coal Velenje on the long-term supply of coal, including the maximum price; thirdly, the deadlines for the completion of the project; fourthly, the achievement of the project's profitability under the sectoral energy policy; fifthly, the limitation of CO2 emissions; sixthly, the final total value of the project is less than the total value of the project referred to in the 4th amendment of the investment programme, and in this value are covered by all items. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the value of the TES 6 project was limited to EUR 302 million on the basis of an amendment to the investment programme reviewed by the international audit house. Shortly after the performance of the government of Alenka Bratušek, the then Minister of Infrastructure and Space Samo Omerzel briefed the National Assembly on the new value of the investment, which is expected to be raised by EUR 140 million and should amount to EUR 440 million. Therefore, in the SDS Group of Members, immediately following these statements, we requested from the then Minister Sam Omerzel an urgent meeting of the two committees, the Infrastructure and Space Committee and the Committee on Finance, and later extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. The request for an extraordinary meeting was submitted at 8. Seven. 2013 At that time, we proposed the following conclusions or recommendations: firstly, the National Assembly recommends to the Government, as owners of HSE and TES, that within 30 days they present in detail the economic viability of the investment in Block 6 of Thermoelectric Šoštanj, in view of the increased value of the investment and in view of the real forecasts and multiple scenarios of the movement of market or selling electricity prices for the period of operation of Block 6; secondly, the National Assembly recommends to the Government as owners of HSE as well as to HSE and TES administrations that within 30 days they present in detail the impact of the changed conditions, the delay in the start of the operation and the higher value of investments related to the investment of Block 6, the operation, liquidity and the business results of both companies, and assess the possibility of renewing the guarantee for leased loan in the amount of EUR 440 million; thirdly, the National Assembly recommends to the Government as owners of HSE as well as the NSE and TES administrations; secondly as to the financial results of both of the companies; and the possibility of financing of the successful financing of Slovenia's for the successful financing of the loans, which will be carried out by the Bank of the Bank's and the Bank's for the effective in terms of the investment in terms of loans; and the Bank's and the financial support of the effective. The current ruling coalition of parliamentary parties, composed of the parties Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons and the National Gazette, rejected the proposed conclusions or recommendations. On 15 July 2013, the Government, on the basis of the meetings held at the National Council of the State on 15 July 2013, took note of the information on the status of the replacement block 6 project and, in this regard, adopted conclusions which first indicated that the project did not provide implementation in time and price frameworks, as defined in the investment decision and proposed to the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the investment in Block 6, to the Ministry responsible for infrastructure, by means of an international independent specialised company, to draw up a review of the possible options and proposals for further steps related to the investment in Block 6, to order that, by 30 October 2013 at the latest, the Institute of Economics to prepare an investment programme for the block 6 project, the HSE report to present the impact of the changed conditions related to the investment in Block 6 in the Republic, the liquidity of the operation and the business results of HSE and the TES company, and the assessment of the risk to the Ministry of the law enforcement authorities for the period of Slovenia and the administration of the public administration of the public administration of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the public. These were the conclusions which the Government imposed on individual entities. At its 41st extraordinary meeting the following day, on 16 July 2013, the National Assembly endorsed the above-mentioned decisions of the Government and adopted an additional decision to report to the Government by 30 November 2013 on the implementation of its decisions adopted at its 34th letter meeting on 15 July 2013. Since the government of Alenka Bratušek did not respect the decision of the National Assembly to report on the implementation of its own decisions, the SDS Group again requested the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the competent committee and at the meeting of the National Assembly in January 2014, it was found that the Ministry responsible for infrastructure and space did not prepare a review of possible options by means of an international independent specialised company and a proposal for further steps related to the investment in Block 6 of Šostany. To date, no amendment to the investment programme for Block 6 project has been adopted and there is no presentation of the impact of the changed investment situation in Block 6 on the liquidity of operations and the business results of HSE and TEŠ, nor is there an assessment of the risk of cashing out the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, nor is there a report on the legality of the conduct of HSE and TES bodies. However, at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, a statement was made by Mr Blaž Koshorok, Director General of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, who said that all the Administrations of the Termoelectrica Šostanj had deceived the competent ministers and thus the National Assembly on the true value of the investment of Block 6. Members of the SDS were then warned that there was an enormous increase in the risk that the investment of Block 6 would not be economically justified, and that not only Termoelectrica Šostjanj’s business could be compromised, but the whole of HSE and all Slovenian energy and its investments in energy facilities. Therefore, the SDS Group proposed to adopt the following conclusions or recommendations: First time. The National Assembly shall require the Government to report on the implementation of the Government's decisions adopted at its 34th letter meeting. Seven. 2013 and with which it first found that the project does not provide implementation in time and price frameworks as defined in the investment decision-making. From the available documentation, the reasons for the increase in the value of the investment are not sufficiently apparent and the documentation available does not provide sufficient basis for further decisions. Another time. It invites the Court of Auditors to carry out, within its competences, an audit into Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. Third time. Instruct the Ministry of Infrastructure to prepare, through the assistance of an international independent specialised company, reviews of possible options and proposals for further steps related to investment. Fourth time. By October 2014 at the latest, it has ordered HSE to demonstrate the impact of the changed investment situation in Block 6 on the liquidity of operations and the business results of both companies, HSE and TES and the risk assessment for the cashing-up of the guarantee by the end of October 2014. Order the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the State Defence, to prepare a report within three months on the legality of HSE and TES conduct and, in the event of irregularities, propose measures to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly also requested the Government to prepare a report on the planned risk management measures that the investment in Block 6 represents the employment of TEŠ, Coal Velenje and HSE and planned investments in energy. Unfortunately, this report is not there either. However, the then ruling coalition of parliamentary parties in the National Assembly rejected these decisions or recommendations and adopted its decision, in which it merely supported the Government's efforts to resolve the issue of the Šostanj Termoelectrica, which means that it does not implement and implement its previous decisions. In July 2014, an annex was signed in the media by the Director-General of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, the President of the Coal Authority and the Director of Thermoelectrica Šostanj to the 3-page Coal Purchase Contract, Power Purchase and Power Purchase, in which they raised for 2014 the price of coal from 2.45 euros for gigajoules to 2.95 euros for gigajoules. This agreement was followed by a statement by miners in Velenje, who, among other things, demanded an increase in the purchase price of coal from Velenje Coal. Even at this price, which is an essential item for the electricity price produced in Block 6, it is estimated at today's market prices that the Šostanj thermal power plant will generate more than €50 million in loss in Block 6 only in 2015. This loss will, of course, have to be borne by taxpayers and electricity consumers at the final stage. On this occasion, however, I must commend the work of Slovenian criminals who have filed criminal charges against 10 natural persons suspected of abuse of position and rights and of falsification or destruction of business documents in relation to the TES 6 project. The total damage detected by criminals in the investigation of suspected irregularities in the operation of the Šostanj Termoelectrica is already more than EUR 284 million. Unfortunately, we cannot express our appreciation for the work of the other institutions responsible for overseeing the legality of the use of funds and the project of Block 6 of Šostanyj. No conclusion is yet known in the specific case of suspected corruption [[sign for the end of the debate]] project block 6. [[…]] We expect all competent authorities to carry out their work in full and thoroughly check all responsible persons who are or participate in the block 6 project. The list of recommendations to the proposal, as well as the requirements that the Committee and the National Assembly referred to both the Government and all the competent ministries concerned with the implementation of the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, is very extensive.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u64	Can you finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u65	I'll finish. We note that there has been virtually no response to the National Assembly so far. Moreover, the Government does not implement its conclusions, and it is all the more important that we note at today's meeting the lack of respect for the decisions imposed by the National Assembly and the failure to implement the decisions adopted by the Government. Since the National Assembly passed the Guarantee Law, we are entitled [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u66	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u67	up to all the answers regarding the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u68	The proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space at its 3rd meeting on 26 November 2014. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u69	President, thank you for your word. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 3rd meeting, on 26. 11. In 2014, as a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of investment in Block 6 of the Thermoelectrical of Šostjanj and its impact on the operation of the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, d.o.o., and Holding of Slovenian power plants, d.o.o. submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jožet Tank. During the course of business, the legislative and legal services of 12 were consulted. 11. 2014 amendments tabled by the SDS Group to points 1, 2, 3 and 4 and to the preamble and the title of the proposal for a recommendation. On behalf of the applicant, an additional explanation was provided by Mr Krivec. A summary of the complement of the explanation is given in the report of the Committee of 3. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The meeting was also attended by Janja Sosič, who presented the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption Boris Štefanec, as well as the legal representatives of companies involved in the operation of TES, is Director of TES Mr Matjaž Eberlinc, Director of HS Blaž Kosorok, President of the Management Board of Velenje Mr. Ludvik Golob. The proposed recommendations proposed by the Group of Members were discussed. The members of the committee asked the guests questions. In conclusion of the debate, the Coalition Members expressed their opinion on the proposed points of the proposal for a recommendation and the amendments that most of the issues that the proposal seeks clarification have already been answered to a large extent at the meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space. However, they suggested that the Committee should take its decision independently of the proposal for a recommendation recommending to the Government that, within its competences, it obtain information on the expected business outcome of HSE and TES in the coming five-year period and information on the planned risk management measures in connection with the investment of TES 6. The members of the committee themselves were not familiar with this information. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to paragraphs 1, 3, and 4 and to the title. It has become irrelevant to the amendment of the SDS Group to the preamble. The proposal for a recommendation was also not adopted by the Committee and it was agreed that the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space recommends to the Government, within its competences, that it obtain information on the planned business outcome of HSE and TES for the next five years with regard to the investment of TES6 and information on the planned risk management measures in connection with the investment in TES Block 6 and the operation of TES, d.o.o. and HSE, d.o.o. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Peter Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u71	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In early November, the government received a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly on the issue of investment in Block 6, the Termoelectric power plant Šostjanj and its impact on the operation of the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, d.o.o., and Holding of Slovenian power plants, d.o.o. submitted by the group of Members and Members with the first signed Jože Tank. On 25 November 2014, the Government considered and adopted an opinion forwarded to the National Assembly. It was pointed out that the Government would implement all the measures recommended by the National Assembly and for which it was competent and would provide the National Assembly with all the information it had or could require. The opinion also included information on the treatment of the report submitted by the investor in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of the Treaty on the regulation of relations relating to the project of the replacement block 6 at the Šostjanj Termoelectricarium, that is, information provided by TEŠ, d. o. o., 30. 6. In 2014, and this information was forwarded to the Ministry of Infrastructure, it was forwarded to the Ministry of Finance. The report on the fulfilment of the obligations and guarantees relating to the TES 6 project showed that the commitment provided for in Article 4 of the Treaty on the regulation of relations was not fulfilled because the report stated the estimated value of the TES 6 project amounted to EUR 428 million, EUR 544 000, which is more than the final value of the project for which TES was committed under the Treaty on the regulation of relations, d.o.o. The TES report did not mention anything in relation to the issue of Coal Velenje in 2014 or with regard to the planned coal prices, but they were still referring to the fulfilment of the coal price commitment in relation to the long-term coal supply contract at maximum prices set out in the revised investment programme number 5. Therefore, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space is 6. 8. 2014 TES, d.o.o. sent a letter requesting further clarifications and evidence that compliance with the Treaty on the regulation of relations could be established, and the question of when the company’s competent authorities will be drawn up and the amendment of the investment programme number 6 confirmed. In response, which was held on 24. 8. 2014 sent from TES, d.o.o., claimed that they had not received new coal prices from HSE and not from Coal Velenje until that day. However, with regard to the amendment of the investment line 6, they provide for the production of the final version by the end of October 2014, but cannot confirm when it will be confirmed by the competent authorities of the company. From the report received on the state of play on project TEŠ 6 per day 31. Ten. 2014 appears to be the estimated value of the investment at 31. Ten. 2014 amounted to EUR 428 million already mentioned and a billion EUR 248 million and 684 000 have already been paid by that date. With regard to the second point of the recommendation of the Group of Members, the Government submitted an opinion that the Republic of Slovenia, as a marriage, could not affect the fulfilment of the debtor's obligations under the credit agreement. The guarantee contract regulates the relationship between the marriage and the creditor. In the guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, the guarantee is fixed as irrevocable and unconditional, meaning that in the event of a breach of the contractual provisions by the TEC, the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia under the guarantee contract cannot be cancelled or cancelled. With regard to the proposal for a recommendation from a group of Members to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Government explained in its opinion when the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering would start its activities and that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering was not responsible for monitoring the legality of the use of funds and the project TES 6. In its opinion, the government stated that it was already 20 years old. 11. Adopted a decision establishing and appointing an inter-ministerial working group to draft an independent investigation law [[sign for the end of the debate]] in the construction of Block 6 or in the development of a legislative proposal for the implementation of independent controls, the implementation of major state investments. In this group are representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Office of the Government of Law, the Cabinet of the Prime Minister and the Secretary-General of the Government. It is also worth saying that we have already submitted a request from the Ministry of Infrastructure to HSE and TES, d.o.o. to provide us with projections of the planned business results, and that they respect the deadline of 31. 12. 2014 by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Any additional information on what has led to the most inherited investment in Slovenia's history, the investment in the Sixth Block of the Thermoelectrical Company of Šostjanj is still important and welcome, as it complements the mosaic of deceptions, manipulations, the misdemeanours of legislation and the criminal and corrupt acts of many who have led to the implementation of the TES 6 project and thus the immeasurably indebtedness of the country. However, the recommendations and requests contained in the SDS document, which is the basis of today's debate, only mention the facts already known, but fail to conceal what is most important, and what should be of interest to the National Assembly, how the TES 6 exchanged a staff of different governments with one and the same goal of bringing this corrupt project to an end, should it cost what it wants and what it wants. And we're going to cost at least 1.4 billion euros. In addition, it will not be viable, as it will produce a loss in addition to electricity. Let me remind you, in some ways, the investment started at the time of the Tone Rop government and predicted the power of 500 megawatts by burning a giant lignite worth about 600 million euros. Although TES 6 was not in state energy plans, the next government, led by Janez Janša, took over the investment. Shortly after the first energy permit was issued, the TES Supervisory Board changed its plans and confirmed its investment for 600 megawatts block, requiring a new energy permit, which included partial combustion of imported coal, and TES 6 included in the Government's Resolution on National Development Projects together with the Megalaxia amusement park on Ptuj and the artificial Adriatic island in the form of a dolphin. This resolution has never been published in the Official Journal. This fact alone indicates how state institutions have been subordinated to the forced interests of individual businesses and lobbying. Although no comprehensive environmental impact assessment was ever carried out, the Municipality of Šostjanj and the Ministry of Environment and Space adopted a revised spatial act in 2007 which allowed the construction to begin. During the time of the government of Janez Janša, Alstrom was collected as a privileged bidder, signed the contract and increased the value of the investment. With the European Investment Bank, they signed a EUR 350 million loan contract and paid the first 25 million for the reservation. In 2008, Borut Pahor's government took over the baton, which continued its investment in TES 6 without any concern. She did not listen to the warnings of a number of experts and NGOs about the failure of the investment and refused a thorough audit of the project prior to its continuation, which any good master would have done. In 2009, Alstrom signed a contract for equipment worth almost 700 million and paid the first meal, 85 million. This Treaty is contrary to all the criteria and established practices concluded under Swiss law and without an appropriate anti-corruption clause. A new contract with the EIB has also been concluded. Minister Lahovnik signed a letter on support for drawing credit and TES Director Uroš Rotnik signed a contract for the construction of the cooling tower, although there was no construction permit for it. At that time, doubts about the correctness of the investment became general. In addition to some NGOs and experts, some opposition parties began to oppose him and serious conflicts began in the government. At the end of 2010, the Ministry of Economy ordered a revision of the project, which, in the wake of the suspicions of corruption in March 2011, Minister Radičeva forwarded to the National Investigation Office and the Anti-Corruption Commission. Although it was clear that there was something wrong with the investment, it was still granted a building permit. All these conflicts have finally come from the collapse of the government led by Borut Pahor and the new 2011 elections, when the government was taken over by the previous opposition. In the meantime, however, the value of the investment has increased steadily. But if we expected the other Janša government, which opposed the project's opposition, to stop the construction of TES 6, we expected too much. The construction of the largest corruption monument continued at an accelerated pace, and warnings and warnings were heard. The project was also discussed several times by the National Assembly, the KPK pointed out corruption and the NPU launched serious investigations. However, with the support of only 29 MPs during the government, led by Janez Janša, the National Assembly voted in favour of new loans of almost half a billion euros and only Members of New Slovenia voted against the proposal in full, and all other parliamentary groups were divided. Was this insurance for the future so that in the future they might be able to refer to that part of the Members who voted in an opportunistic manner? What can we conclude from this brief review? The fact that the investment in TES 6 is completely flawed. That it was carried out without the relevant documents and on the basis of misleading information. That it will have catastrophic consequences not only for state finances, but also for the further development of Slovenian energy. It is particularly important for the National Assembly and policy that political parties and public function holders behaved in their conduct, and we may be appalled that there was no principled conduct, but that decisions were taken depending on the situation that each political party had at that time. When she was in the government, the TES 6 project was more or less bitter in her defense, but when she was in opposition, she opposed him. This is also the case in the text of Esdees' recommendations for today's debate. Highlights follow the principle of minimize our role if you can't deny it, and stress the role of our opponents. Members of the United Left are convinced that any clearance of catastrophic decisions in the construction of TES 6 is welcome, especially if it can help to prevent similar developments in the future, but we are also convinced that information on this must be in line with the facts, which we do not follow in these recommendations. We note that the collection and emphasis of information are tailored to the needs of the SDS party. The fact that only names that do not like the SDS are highlighted in the wrong decisions is that the role played by the government, led by their members, has been highlighted positively or neglected. Therefore, the Members of the United Left cannot accept this document as an objective message, but rather as a blurring of facts, adapting history to their own political needs and seeking an alibi for their own mistakes. With the support of the two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on TES 6 is the first opportunity to establish the political responsibility for this catastrophic investment. This is an opportunity for us to finally determine who has soiled our hands in this business, regardless of the political color. These dirty hands are much bigger and dirty than the hands of giant miners after a full day's work in the coal mine, but those hands are not hard to wash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u75	Mr President, honourable Members and representatives of the Ministry, Mr Minister! We are talking about one of the biggest energy investments in our country. We are talking about the country's dizzying financial obligations, which, in addition to the already large public financial deficit, threatens barely the sustainable stability of the financial system. Since the inclusion of TES 6 in the Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 and the investment programme of April 2006, the same dilemma remains – is it a legitimate investment or not? Why its value is constantly increasing and how it affects the operation of HSE and TES. Most importantly, how high is the risk of cashing out the State guarantee for long-term loans of EUR 440 million. Without an answer, as we have already been trained, the question of responsibility for this remains without a doubt an inevitable situation. If we take a closer look. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable that the estimated value of the investment since 2006 has increased to around EUR 690 million to EUR 440 million. Despite numerous concerns about the profession and policy, the Government of Borut Pahorja in March 2009 did not stop the construction project TES 6. The value has already increased to EUR 340 million. In 2011, it already exceeded €400 million. While it is true that the economic situation in Slovenia has changed significantly over all these years, the economic crisis has led to a decline in electricity consumption and the price of passive electricity has declined significantly since 2006. At its letter meeting on 15 July 2013, the Government of Alenka Bratušek took note of the status of the project and adopted a number of conclusions which were clear. It concluded that the project does not provide performance in time and price frameworks as defined in the investment decision. It is unreasonable, by the way, that such matters, which may also mean a breakdown of the economy, are discussed or decided by the Government at a written meeting. The decisions adopted by the Government, with which the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance, Termoelectricařna Šostanj and Holding of Slovenian power plants made specific commitments, were also supported by the National Assembly. On 16 July 2013, the Commission invited the Government to report to it by the end of November on the implementation of these decisions. And what has happened since then? Nothing at all. The government has not reached a single conclusion. Well, let's take a closer look. At today's market prices of electricity, we can rightly expect TES 6 to create a huge loss in the coming year if the price of coal is more than 2.95 euros per gigajoule, the loss will be more than 50 million. And what will we do, Members? What will the government do? Simply filing criminal charges against a few natural persons who are supposed to abuse their position does not mean a solution to the situation and does not mean preventing further financial losses, which we already know will happen today. At this point, Christian Democrats are most concerned about the ease and serenity of the fact that TES is not able to meet the obligations of suppliers on its own today due to poor business, since it has already taken over HSE this year. The State has imposed a heavy burden on itself by the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for long-term loans of EUR 440 million rented by the Termoelectric Power Plant of Šostanj to the European Investment Bank. It's a burden that's putting more and more pressure on the ground. The burden, which we Members of New Slovenia have only opposed, is that we are aware that in all of the above facts TES will no longer be able to meet its loan obligations and the guarantee will be cashed. And there's one more thing. On the basis of the guarantee adopted, the State has concluded a Treaty on the regulation of relations which lays down, inter alia, the deadlines for the completion of the project, the conclusion of a contract on the long-term supply of coal and the framework for the profitability of the energy project. In order not to forget the most important element of this Treaty: the total value of the project must be lower than the total value of the project mentioned in the 4th amendment of the investment programme, i.e. EUR 1 billion 302 million. This condition does not appear to be met. I want to say that we are talking about numbers on which ordinary citizens are not used to imagining them and we are also having a hard time voicing them. And where are we today? We still do not have a prepared investment programme plan 6, despite the fact that in its reply the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space claimed on 14 August 2014 that the final version would be produced by the end of October 2014. If I am not mistaken, we are today on December 19th, and the investment programme plan 6 is not heard by the spirit. Instead, we have MEPs ahead of us losing TES, which threatens to cash in the guarantee. As in a mockery of this emphasis on the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Government is aware of all the issues related to the TES 6 project and has therefore already taken certain measures. The story repeats itself. What measures, Mr. Minister? If you are referring only to the establishment of a working group to prepare a legal proposal to conduct an independent investigation into the construction and revision of business in the construction of the sixth block, which is to prepare proposals by mid-December, then we are rightly asking about the seriousness of such discussions. And more than half of December is already behind us, dear Minister. And in the end, we're looking for culprits. Indeed, law enforcement authorities have filed several criminal charges for suspected abuse of position and rights and for the destruction or falsification of business documents. Christian Democrats, we ask ourselves, is that all? On the fact that the HSE Director-General, Mr Blaž Kosorok, doubts the credibility of the NIP 4 and NIP 5, who have overestimated the investment costs, and on the fact that all TES administrations have deceived the competent ministers as to the true value of the sixth block. We are justifiably afraid that nothing will happen. For this reason, in the New Slovenia Group, we also signed a request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in this investment. For it is indeed irresponsible for our citizens that, in the course of such obvious irresponsible and unconsensual conduct of the State, some continue to deceive and seek fault for the situation elsewhere, but do not knock on their doors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice hello to you all! Today is actually the time for us to touch or say something, depending on how many applications are made and how much time is reserved for this point. Of course, the issue will run primarily in the direction of who is to blame and who is not, but unfortunately it will not produce these fruits that can or will be, I believe, be carried out by an investigative commission. In view of the fact that this is one imported project that we are not actually going to solve in the National Assembly today, even less so that we can successfully help this project to emerge from its problems, this national assembly will never be carried out because it cannot. Today, there are only 5 Members in this assembly who have supported the TEŠ 6 project, or the last step, when the guarantee could still be drawn up and stopped the story, and in fact, most of the new Members and Members of Parliament have come to a new understanding of what has really been going on in recent years, because I believe that before they entered this House, they have followed the matter exclusively more superficially or from personal intuitions or interests, as far as they have been able to monitor the matter and nothing else. What I find most perverse about today’s debate is that the candidate for the topic that we are discussing today is actually someone who has supported the guarantee for TEŠ 6, Daniel Krivec. And I find this very strange, I will say very modestly that today we are discussing and listening to what is wrong, but if the applicant has allowed himself to vote in this guarantee. At the same time, this project fell to the test at a time when the proposal for 400 million guarantees was proposed by the Member and not by the Government. A messenger. This is extremely unusual for a Member to propose a guarantee of 400 million. And then something strange happens -- there's no more coalition, there's no more political reflection, there's no more review, but it's just local patriotism or, I'll say, in a way, confirmation because of personal conviction. If we go to look at what actually happened on this occasion when the guarantee was approved and where the project actually went further, we can see that the quorum of 59 Members actually confirmed at that meeting. There were 29 and 20 against them. However, 30 Members drew cards out and did not participate in the vote at all, which means that 39 Members made it clear that they did not intend to participate in the project. 29 of them were for. And the government, not this one, I apologize, has received a green light to accompany this now with great agreement and legitimacy of the highest authority in the country – the National Assembly. All the energy and energy lobbying just laughed, because I think the same day, if not the next day, has signed an annex for the new 150 million, which has exceeded what the National Assembly has allowed. And that's why I find it extremely unfair from the proposaler that he came with this topic to the National Assembly because it would be better if he was quiet. However, he has every right to propose and to debate, of course, that we will not get things wrong, but that everything works in an incredible way. Indeed, the moment has come when at least political masks may fall through the commission of inquiry, at least politically, because all the other masks must fall in pursuits carried out by other authorities. It is better that the National Assembly does not attach its cup with any victory, how they will speed up or improve or even reveal it, because, for the first time, it is not the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, and, more importantly, it would be very unhygienic again. Finally, let me say that, of course, we will participate in the debate, because there is already a debate and it is right to talk about it. I particularly hope that the debate will go primarily in this direction, that there will be a kind of reminder and in the memory of the national assembly of this reference and any reference to, when pressing the button, to consider whether this project is worth considering and if it has a basis for doing so, and to consider also for futures, whenever we talk about such difficult investments, that they cannot be proposed by the Member, especially if it is opposition, because it does not have the data at all, it does not have the data for 400 million. I therefore propose that, since this information is truly known, accessible, public, anyone can look at it when you discuss it, look again at this list, who was in favour and how interesting the story happened in this vote. And after that vote, everyone was quiet, but today they'll be loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u79	Mr Vice President, thank you for your word, dear colleague and colleague! Today's point, this point that we are currently considering, is in fact from one session of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, which was referred to at the request of the SDS Group, and the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica and its impact on the operation of the TES and HSE. The recommendations to be adopted on the Committee have not been voted on and the recommendation of the Committee, as I explained earlier, has been put to the vote, and we have asked the Government to obtain it within its powers. It should be known that these recommendations of the SDS Group, as well as the recommendation of the Committee, are not in fact recommendations, but are only a request for information on the operation of the TES, as regards the NIP, as regards HSE. In short, the wish was to obtain some up-to-date information on the operation of the TES, briefly stated. At the meeting of the Committee, all key actors of the current event were present, namely representatives of the Government, legal representatives of HSE, TES, SDH, the representative of Velenje Coal, from which it was possible to request at the meeting of the Committee all the information proposed by the SDS to be obtained in writing, and in fact it was possible to obtain them in such a way that those present, directors and other guests were asked about matters of interest to the members of the Committee. For example, Mr Eberlinc explained why the state of the project was TES 6, explained that the open issue of the price of coal as an energy agent is that the project is currently in a hot start, that the packages were, as he said, somewhere at the level of realization 99.5, with 100 % meaning that the technical and all remaining relevant documentation was provided. He also explained that Block 6 was synchronized, Block 6 was also on the network, on full power, was already on the network and on full power, and it is also expected that these start-up attempts will be fully completed and that block 6 will be put into experimental operation as planned. In short, at the meeting of the committee itself, it was possible to obtain virtually all the information, except that requested by the committee in its decision later on by the Government. As regards the activities of the KPK, we also had a meeting of the Committee of Mr Štefanec, which explained what the KPK is doing, explained where the KPK has already filed allegations of a crime, namely the Prosecutor's Office in Celje and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and so on. So we practically got all the information. In this part, it is agreed with the predecessor, Comrade Möderndorfer, that this meeting today is absolutely unnecessary in this respect. In SMC, we are aware of the seriousness of the situation of this project and of the consequences of its impact on HSE's business. In this regard, we also have planned individual activities, some are already implemented, and, first of all, there is a co-signature to the proposal to establish a parliamentary commission of inquiry and, finally, the establishment of an interdepartmental commission set up by the Government with a view to preparing legislation for the independent revision of the TEC. So in SMC we carry out activities in this area, but it is not too much to mention that the powers of the Government are today limited. This project is built, we do not expect any terrible movements here, because, if I say so domestically, the matter is already inundated and all we can expect is the mitigation of the consequences of this project to the greatest extent and the focus on enough attention to keep us as low as possible in the future. I'd like to re-emphasize. There are more than 60 members of parliament who are not present today, and I do not believe that we are going to learn anything smart today. We are susceptible to any constructive proposals that are mediocre in view of this situation as it is. As I have already said in the SMC, this project is being followed seriously and actively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u81	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In addition to the legislative and electoral functions, the National Assembly also has a supervisory function. This is particularly important in the energy field, as the new energy law stipulates that the Agency's financial and business plan for energy is confirmed by the National Assembly, Members. We know that the Energy Agency is the supervisory regulatory authority in the field of energy. And we are Members in this area in another way. We need to be aware of that. Throughout several mandates, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has been drawing attention to the management of the investment of TES Block 6, especially since it began to exceed its original financial framework. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposed a series of conclusions and recommendations, both on the committees and at the extraordinary meeting last July, where our proposed conclusions and recommendations were rejected by the Coalition Members, thereby proposing much nicer recommendations and conclusions, but there were no or no responses from them. Although important issues have been raised, such as the economic viability of the investment in terms of the increased value and real forecasts of market prices of electricity, what will be the impact of Block 6's investment on the operation and liquidity of both HSE and the Heat Power Plant of Šostjanj, how risks are managed in connection with the investment and the assessment of the possibility of cashing out the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia and what was the legality of HSE and TES' conduct in this investment. Despite the importance of all these questions, Members still have no answers or investment reports for TES 6. The club also took responsibility when we made a guarantee of EUR 440 million. The government also responded to our recommendations last year and instructed the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure to prepare a report and verify all actions related to the investment of Block 6, but to date both ministries have not carried out their tasks. Moreover, the amendment of the investment programme for Block 6 so-called NIP 6 has not yet been adopted. There is no presentation of the impact of the changed investment situation in Block 6 on the liquidity, business and business results of HSE and the risk assessment of the increase in investment value. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we expect that the Government will respect all the decisions adopted in the National Assembly and, finally, the conclusions it has made to itself have not been implemented, as there were no answers to these conclusions either. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, with today's conclusions and recommendations, reiterates its call for answers and we expect these answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A respected minister with a team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we are well aware of all the issues related to the construction project of Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant. We are therefore also one of the co-signers of the proposal to set up an investigative commission to identify the political responsibilities of public function holders in this project. It is surprising, however, that the proposers of the item that we are currently considering have not signed this proposal. Therefore, we also find it difficult to believe in the honesty of the proponents of the recommendations on the issue of investment in Block 6 of the Šostjanj Thermoelectrica that they really want the National Assembly to obtain the necessary information on the state of the project. The fact is that, for the lack of transparency of this project, not only one government is to blame, but the 6th-block project has dragged on so long that several governments and several competent ministers have been replaced. Thus, according to our assessment, the proponents of this point bear a considerable share of the blame for turning the project into a non-transparent one, that its value has grown across all borders, because at the time that they led the Government of the Republic of Slovenia twice, they have done nothing to stop this project or at least have not initiated appropriate procedures to investigate what is actually happening with the construction of the 6th block, that the price of the initial 690 million euros has risen to nearly 1.5 billion euros. However, we must admit that part of the blame for the situation is also borne by some of the last compositions of the National Assembly, if not by others, because of its naivety. Members have repeatedly occupied the manipulations by the Slovenian Power Plants Holding, if anything serious awaits this country and the Shaleska Valley in the event that the construction project of the 6th block is stopped. So we listened to and believed the threats that we would lose sovereignty in the supply of electricity if the project was not completed. One of the threats was that the Republic of Slovenia would pay several hundred million compensations to Alstom if the project stopped. Of course, they did not forget to fertilize with a social bomb, which, due to the low buying-in price of coal, will obviously trigger into TES itself because they buy huge coal at a significantly lower price than planned in the project. The question of the DeSUS Group on the sustainability and relevance of the project has always been answered in the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants in the above-mentioned way, i.e., the pressure on the most sensitive points, which are the social security of employees in the Velenje and TES mines and the environmental population, as well as the provision of self-sustainment with electricity. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group have decided to co-sign the request for the establishment of an Investigative Commission of the National Assembly on Project TES 6, as I mentioned at the outset, because we believe that the identification of political responsibility is the only serious and the right way to cross matters. It is precisely because we believe in the success of the commission of inquiry, which aims to expose irregularities in the construction of the 6th block of TES, and because we believe that the proponents of the rule of the Republic of Slovenia bear a significant proportion of the blame for turning the project into a non-transparent one, we have not supported the proposals made by the applicant on the working body. However, we supported the decision drawn up by the already mentioned Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Katič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u85	The President, the Honourable Minister, the Honourable Colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! If we look a little bit at the history of TES, which is 100% owned by HSE. Just two blocks of TES began operating in 1956. In 1960, block 3, 1973 block 4, 1978 block 5, 2008 began operating two gas turbines. The Silesian Valley paid a high tax on coal production and electricity production. Over a thousand buildings were demolished, over 400 families were displaced, and entire settlements were destroyed. Much of the valley is covered with water. The environmental rehabilitation began in 1987 after an ecological protest at the Tito market in Velenj. We asked for a living environment comparable to other places in Slovenia for our offspring and for ourselves. This year, block 3, which made 340 thousand operating hours, was discontinued, which is significantly higher than comparable facilities abroad. And we weren't talking about the harmful effects on the environment. The expected termination of Block 4 is in 2015. According to the documents and data currently available, the operation of block 5 by 2027 is envisaged. Therefore, we are also concerned about the statements of HSE leadership, the uncertainty of the fate of further operation of Block 5. The preparation of all documentation explaining the derogations is provided in the NIP 6. The government already has it, but it is true that it has not yet been confirmed by the HSE. The first investment value was €691 million. And this evaluation was done by the professional services, along with the outside co-workers as a rough estimate. In the same year, information offers were received and at the end of 2006 the value of the estimated investment was €7 billion at current prices and €424 million in the NIP2 at current prices. And it's not true that all the administrations have been deceiving. In fact, the data were given in all the NIPs and also several times here in the National Assembly. TES also looked into the possibility of rebuilding blocks 4 and 5. The study shall be fully accessible to the information officer, the TEC and the HSE. In order to carry out active control, HSE and TEC formed an active control committee, in which HSE appointed three and a TEC member. The role of the Committee shall be to exercise active control over the flow of investment in the form of validation and approval of all procurement procedures in the context of the implementation of the investment. The Committee shall be responsible for its work to the Director of HSE. He started his work in December 2009. He was also a member of the current TEC Director. Their work and possible responsibility for their oversight errors will also have to be under scrutiny. And also about the investment value. In an interview with the local newspaper, the current director of TES said, I quote the publication of 27 November 2014: "When I arrived in 2012 at HSE, we received a request from the HSE management to check if there is any other comparable building, which is also in construction. A comparable object means the same power, the use of comparable energy, comparable technology and efficiency. The data could suggest that the block 6 project was even slightly cheaper than the others." End of quote. At this point, we would also like to draw attention to the statement made by the Director of HSE, who, at the meeting of the parent committee, claimed that, at the request of the policy or owner, the investment value had been lost. Such a flat-rate declaration will have to be given concrete names and authentic evidence of the reality of the allegations, or it will require the responsibility of the one who makes the statement. If this statement is true, we hope and believe that the alleged influence of politicians has been reported to the competent authorities. As I said at the outset, and once again, we want the Social Democrats to know who did something wrong and to be responsible for their irregularities. Social Democrats want things to be thoroughly investigated. That is why we have also actively participated in the preparation of the parliamentary inquiry request and have contributed to it all six signatures of Members and Members of the Social Democrats. Therefore, we strongly reject all media hints and hints, including a journalist on Tarč's national television broadcast, who claimed that part of the party does not support the investigation. That's not true. The leadership of the party, the parliamentary group and the membership of the Social Democrats support the investigation, and therefore we also want the Government to draw up a legislative proposal as soon as possible to lay the groundwork for conducting an independent investigation into the construction and revision of business in the construction of block 6. True, our support for these activities seems to disturb someone. It is also true that we are not and will not care about the fate of the working people in Velenje Coal and the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. And finally, it is also true that we do not accept the flat-rate claims and accusations that determine the culprit for irregularities right through the thumb. The State of the Republic of Slovenia issued a guarantee under the Guarantee Act which entered into force on 1 August 2012. On 30 November, almost three months later, TEC Director Simon Tot and the Minister of Finance concluded a contract on the manner and conditions of insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. The TES Director-General Simon Tot, Minister of Energy and Minister of Finance, also concluded this same day a relationship agreement on a project setting out the framework for the implementation of this project. The guarantee contract states that the TEC declares and guarantees that the wedding has been made aware of all the circumstances, facts and data that were known or should have been known to it and that could affect the assessment of the need and appropriateness of the decision to fulfil the conditions for obtaining the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia and the conclusion of this contract and the issue of the guarantee, and that all data are complete and in all essential respects unchanged, even at the time of the conclusion of this contract. The TES also committed to providing the Ministry of Finance with annual audited financial statements with appropriate explanations and business reports, unaudited semi-annual financial statements, and at the request of the Ministry of Finance, all in time and in the manner set out by the Ministry of Finance. On 3 March 2014, a double warning sentence took place in Pregogovnik Velenje. Citima, 3 March 2014, RTV, SLO, STA: "In the Coal of Velenje they claim that in last year's Tripartite Treaty for 2014 they have committed themselves to selling HSE for 41 000 400 teryoules of coal for the purposes of electricity production at the Termoelectric Power Plant of Šostanj". The difference between the realisation of sales in 2014 of 39 000 795 teryouls and the contract is therefore 1604 teryouls, which at the sales price of 2.5 euros per gigajoul amounts to 4 million euros in revenue. The HSE determines, otherwise by a tripartite contract, at what cost the coal miner will sell the TES. HSE shall determine the TES buying-in price for electricity. In 2012, TES belonged to over EUR 100 million for the acquisition of power. In 2013, TES belonged to the circus 78 million and in 2014 TES belonged to EUR 46 million for the acquisition of power, in two years 50% reduction. In the light of the above, certain risks arise for the completion of the project and for the smooth repayment of obligations to lenders which may have a significant impact on the State budget, in which, otherwise, the TEC regularly pays its obligations arising from the remote guarantee, amounting to EUR 5 million per year. Risks and consequences need to be identified in a timely manner and must be adequately addressed, in particular with a view to enabling TEŠ to repay all contractual obligations and not to redeem any guarantee, which could ultimately have a negative impact on the State budget. The most important of all are contractual commitments to lender banks, EBRD and the EIB. Any negative effects on the operations of the TEC and HSE and any breach of any undertaking without the prior consent of the banks may be forced by the latter to cash the State guarantee. The current HSE leadership has been leading the HSE group for more than two years, and it is therefore assumed that such risks are recognised, as well as measures taken to address the negative consequences resulting from this. However, in view of the above, it is regrettable that we have the impression that everything is being done to ensure that the state guarantee is being cashed out. TES is considered the most reliable and stable source of electricity. We don't remember the day that all the blocks were out of service. TES produces more than 30% of Slovenian electricity, and occasionally, mainly in the dry seasons, this share exceeds 50%. However, it is important not only to produce but also to provide the system services provided by TEŠ to the electricity system of Slovenia. In particular, the continuous provision of secondary regulation should be mentioned. The future stability and reliability of the electricity system depends largely on the reliability of electricity production. In order to prevent greater risks and negative consequences for both the system and end-users, it is very important that at least two production blocks are available at the TES location, at least one of which will be operationally qualified at any time. With the possible closure of Block 5 the import dependence on electricity in Slovenia would be increased, they would lose on the reliability and stability of the system. At a certain point, the system would not necessarily need secondary regulation. Jobs would be at risk, which was also discussed on the home committee. According to the TEST plans, according to the closures of Block 3 and 4 existing operational staff are redeployed to Block 6. The support functions shall also be used by existing staff already carrying out this work. In the NIP, it was envisaged that after the operation of block 6, only block 5 would remain in operation. Thus, 429 employees were foreseen in 2015, in 2017 395 and then gradually by natural means, with pensions, a slight decrease in employment. Without block 6, 405, in 2017, 351 would be employed in 2016 and until 2027, when no more employees would be employed. In the second half of the 1980s, Velenje Coal Mine had more than 5,000 600 employees; today there are about 2 000 500 employees in the PV Group. Even on behalf of all employees, both in Coal Velenje and in TES, because we do not see each other in the Shaleska Valley without each other, we expect to get answers to the questions raised. We believe that in the Shaleska Valley they have the right to know what decisions are being made and what are the reasons for these decisions. Slovenia must also know, first of all, who is to blame if something has been wronged, whether the responsible are responsible for irregularities and whether we will have a stable supply of electricity produced in Slovenia or imported from abroad. On the basis of the decision taken by the Committee on Infrastructure in the Group of Social Democrats. We also support the establishment and functioning of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, and we appeal for the speedy preparation and adoption of legislation that will lay the groundwork for conducting an independent investigation, building and auditing of all business in the construction of Block 6, TEC. And I would not agree with what was said to have been answered on the committee and the plans for the future presented, but they were said to be in preparation, said the responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I give my word to the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It was very interesting to listen to these discussions, which we can partly agree with, but you have all gone to the investigative commission and to the tasks that the investigative commission will carry out, which we too have no reason to oppose and do not. However, we have not been included in the signature because, in the final document, we have not even been informed in the final deadline, and on the other hand, none of the comments we have made for the work of this Commission have been taken into account. However, we have no problem in participating in this committee. As I said, my colleagues talked mostly about this, about this past, they dealt with some things for reasons, but apparently they did not read our recommendations and did not read the material that was transmitted. We have dealt only with what the National Assembly can do at this time, and this is with matters from the moment the guarantee law was passed, for which Members have also assumed responsibility in some way. And now that the discussion of how bad the guarantee law was, it must be realized that the guarantee law was then the last solution in the situation of this investment, which would otherwise be significantly more expensive, because the investment would not have stopped at that time in 2012, but TES and HSE would have rented commercial loans that would have an even greater impact on the country or on the state budget, as you all forget that both companies are 100 % owned by the state. And the guarantee was just a solution for as low as possible the interest rate on the loans hired. Thus, even if the guarantee was not voted on, these two companies should rent loans to complete, thus also at a significantly higher interest rate, clearly on some commercial basis, but all of these loans would ultimately also be the burden of the State, since the owner is subsidiaryly responsible for the loans hired. So don't shut your eyes. The only possible stopping of this project, as you all can see, was at the turn of 2009 when the new government came, when the actual circumstances changed. But it'll probably be a second-time speech. It is interesting, however, that you are all dealing only with this, but you are not concerned with the fact that the National Assembly has adopted many decisions that no one is implementing, neither the Ministry nor the Government. That the Government has adopted many of its conclusions, which it also notes in its reply that it does not implement, and none of them are burdened with this. And you all note that there is a risk of either being cashed out or that companies, both TES and HSE, will be in trouble, and you forget that in these conclusions, from 2012 onwards, these warnings provided by the National Assembly and the Committees have been highlighted precisely on these problems that may arise during the business phase of these companies. To be fair, Velenje's coal mine has already done so. Thus, the National Assembly and the Government were aware of these risks, they had concluded, the National Assembly had concluded that these circumstances must be taken seriously, but since these conclusions are not being implemented, we already had problems in the Velenje Coal. We've got a problem at TET. These are all parts of energy and parts of the group also HSE. You're sealing your eyes that we're now troublesome some things back now to deal with some personal grievances. That's not true! We only deal with what we have adopted in the past and what it also says in the guarantee contract, where it clearly states what things must be transmitted by the Czech Power Plant. If you read the government's response to our initiative. First, the government says it will implement all the measures recommended by the National Assembly. In addition, the Government says that it will obtain information on the investment in the TES6 block as soon as possible. That's the answer from 25. 11. Thus, the Government itself finds that it does not have some information, despite its past inferences. So I suggest that sometimes you read some material and that you don't just get satisfied with what someone writes to you, because most of you talked about the investigator and the problems that are related to why this project came about, how it came about, where the problems were. In our recommendation, only about what we in the National Assembly have imposed since the adoption of the guarantee law, and in the majority – at that time these decisions were virtually unanimously adopted – what we have imposed on ministries, on individual economic operators at that time, indirectly, clearly, through the ownership of the government, and we point out what the Government has adopted and no decision is being implemented. And we note that a certain company has already been in trouble, this is Premogovnik Velenje, we note that the thermal power plant Šoštanj can be in similar difficulties, and we demand that such an owner, this is the Government, imposes on these economic operators to draw up different scenarios in connection, clearly, by how the price of electricity will move forward. It is clear that we can no longer stop this project and we are not even talking about it. It is inappropriate, however, that, after all the debates in the National Assembly, virtually no body of these decisions, which we adopt, implements. In fact, in a good light, to have a scenario prepared for the different conditions of the goods that may occur in the future. And again. The National Assembly has adopted the Guarantee Act and also has rights and obligations under this Title. This is also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service. That is why we have already warned on the Committee that not only are we recommending but we are asking the Government to provide certain data. Especially to avoid any further complications. Now, if you all believe that everything is going smoothly, it is really strange that the director of HSE first appoints the person who trusts him most to suspend him in a few years, because he is not suitable, to set up a new one and so on. If this isn't a strange situation for you, it's a little interesting. While clearly in the guarantee contract, what should be reported by TES. On the other hand, it is interesting that we are all saying that there are major problems and that there will be problems, but obviously the TES and HSE meet the conditions of the guarantee contract so far, because otherwise a report should already be sent to the Government and the Ministry in the light of the commitments set out in Articles 8, 9 and 10. And this notes, in some ways, that the Government does not yet have any report to withdraw anything from the NIP 5, which is the only audited and audited document. NIP 6 has been preparing for one and a half years. You all say he's in some final phase, but no one's seen him before. The moisture doesn't have it either. It is said that the only document currently in force for the project is the NIP 5, which was also the basis for the guarantee law. And if the government and the TES covenants that are in the contract are adhered to, the project obviously runs in accordance with the guarantee law. Or does anyone have any other information? And that is exactly what we wanted to point out with these recommendations and requests that it does not happen again that a minister comes to the National Assembly and will say at the next stage that there is no incentive for 140 million, but something else has happened and is, I don't know, 170 million without bringing any document. I really hope that the debate will go this way, because otherwise it makes no sense for us to talk about anything, even to set up an investigative committee if no one in the National Assembly or the Government adheres to their commitments and conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the word to prepare Mr. Zvonko Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you. All those who follow this debate! If we look at a little research on the future of markets both in Slovenia, Europe and the world, we find that the key issues in distribution and energy generation. Key issues will take place here, the most money will revolve around, at the same time, of course, the most possible abuses. If we look at the issue of thermal power plant 6 we find that there have been a number of deviant behaviours at the development stage of the project, which also point to elements of financial crime. If we look at detection and investigation of such behaviours, we will find that at first level the police and the prosecution find this and it is a violation of criminal law and these procedures are under way. In the second phase, it is so-called economic or financial crime, where they carry the centre of events of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance and all competent offices and agencies. And the government's job is to give them all the support they can. In the third phase, however, this is a so-called political responsibility. Here we are now witnessing the establishment of a parliamentary investigative commission to explore this third segment. It is crucial that the power of the State is demonstrated through its institutions and the work of the institutions will show how strong the country is in this area and what the possibilities of eliminating the impact on such an investigation are. It also shows how the state operates and in such projects it turns out that any official representing the country shows its independence and its power. If we look at what has not yet been exposed, Slovenia's future is in green energy, in an environment that we can sell in the framework of tourism, in the framework of forest development, forestry, water and the like. CO2 is now present in a number of media outlets with one or another problem. And the key to assessing the profitability of this project is how much and how we will pay on the CO2 coupon market. Europeans have warned us several times that trading in CO2 coupons is a key problem. We've given this problem too little attention. And here there are also so-called tax whirls, which is a major problem for Slovenia – avoiding tax payments. All of this is then reflected in the damage that we somehow did not take into account in the project, which is ecological crime, environmental destruction, water, forests and everything else. The calculations did not take into account this type of damage already caused, even in human health. It is crucial for Parliament to address two issues in the future. First, environmental legislation, which will be for the good of the people and for the good of the environment in which we operate. Second, to think strategically about how much and what we will invest in future renewable energy sources or similar projects as we have witnessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When this project started, I haven't been here in Parliament or so much in politics, but since 2008, since I've been here, I know we've talked a lot about this project. When the project was planned, the situation was significantly different than it was a few years later. The price of electricity was expected to be around 100 % higher than the current market price when the project was included or started to produce electricity. It was probably a mistake already to invest 600 megawatt block, not a smaller one, where more competition on the market is essential, more producers. Secondly, the assumption was that the electricity price of EUR 85 per megawatt hour and also the price of coal would be significantly lower than it now appears to be or should be. At the end of 2008, at the beginning of 2009, when we came to the realization that the investment would be significantly more expensive, which is also questionable what investors and experts are like to encourage investments by 100% of the estimated value of the investment at the beginning. When it was shown that investments would be higher than originally envisaged, the situation on the electricity market changed significantly and our party, at the beginning of 2009, when the cost was only EUR 25 million, suggested that a re-analysis of the eligibility of the project should be made and that it would be better to stop projects than to continue. Of course, the Borut Pahor government did not do so, but the project continued and the value of the project increased and increased. Now that we find that this value is a billion 400 and something, and when we investigate all these players in this investment and they find a lot of inequities or there's a lot of inequities, we're now dealing with this project that's practically finished; I don't know how much longer we're going to be. I think it's necessary to explore all the indiscretions and punish all those who participated here. I believe there have been quite a few because I cannot believe that the investment is up 100%. However, it is likely that this project over the years, if the price of electricity continues to fall, will be unprofitable to create a significant loss and eventually, like some Western countries, we will also abandon, close and replace this project with other sources that are more environmentally acceptable and even cheaper. So I think the authorities have a lot of work to do to find out who's responsible for what happened. Slovenia should continue to see how it will provide more environmentally acceptable, cheaper electricity, because in a geographical area where electricity could also be traded well, we also served well as some Western countries. The needs in the neighbouring countries are great, and somehow we continue with that old policy, continue with the thermo-power plants and lignite. It is true that the jobs of all these miners, which are bread to them, are questionable, but on the other hand I am sure that the losses with this project will be so much that these miners can be at home and get paid to do nothing, but it would be cheaper for the country. Let us therefore put our minds into our hands and continue to think about how we will solve the provision of electricity in other ways and how we can solve this project or the generation of electricity in thermal power plants, because we know that in the world such power plants are closing, not for no reason, and let us also follow this example.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Get Mr. Miha Kordish ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today's debate comes out, I can say, of the coalition contract of the current coalition. Indeed, in the opening chapter on the most important matters, point 4 also defines the investigation or clearance in the case of TES 6. In the last period, we have witnessed some way of competing a coalition under B and a coalition under A on the necessary investigation into the 6th block Termoelectric power plant, and I can say that there has been some positive competition, which has also led to a wider consensus at the declaration level on the need for further information and a deeper investigation of this project. Now we are faced with some interesting fact – we are discussing this today. If I counted correctly, there are about 18 members of the 52nd Coalition. Another week ago, they agreed on how to inform more about this, how to do more research, and how people are outside. The decision makers are sitting outside this hall. The minister's here. I think that the ministry has thus demonstrated its awareness of the problem that we are discussing today, and if nothing else, it is not worthy of your minister to tell him with such a low presence how expensive it is for you to discuss the reasons and to seek measures to prevent or to remedy a project that is not a couple in Slovenia. Among other things, as you know, in this case, police investigations, detentions and detected violations that go beyond your favorite affair, which you like to discuss and sit properly in this Chamber when the subject applies. I cannot pass the opinion, especially since it has been repeatedly stressed by the speakers here for a speaker that you do not want to discuss the recommendations and do not want to support the proposed recommendations for just one reason – because they have been proposed by the opposition. Some have explicitly highlighted this. Let me just go over some of the views that were expressed here. For example, Violeta Tomić of the United Left said: "Any further information on what has led to the implementation of the largest inherited investment in Slovenia's history is still important and welcome." And in the end, she said she wouldn't support our recommendations. The SD representative said: "It is not true that the Social Democrats do not want an investigation. Leadership, Parliamentary Group, membership supports the investigation." And then they say they will not support the conclusions that are roughly as follows: The National Assembly asks the Commission to prevent corruption to report to it on the irregularities found and suspected corruption in the case of TES 6. Or: The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia consider legal changes to the more effective work of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and other competent institutions. Therefore, because these proposals are proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, you will not support these recommendations. Now I wonder what is wrong with the government finding legal changes to improve the Commission's action to prevent corruption. Well, when you're in front of TV cameras, you're always defending it! Why, then, when this topic touches TEM 6 and this topic is proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, are you suddenly unable to support these proposals? Why do you object, for example, to the conclusion that the Government should prepare information on the implementation of the investment and guarantee framework, in particular as regards the value of the investment and the price of coal? Look, the price of coal here is one of the key factors. Do any of you know at what price the coal will burn? Do any of you know? Obviously not, but you do not want to receive such information. For example, when the SMC representative and the president of the Infrastructure Committee say that it is necessary to know that these recommendations of the SDS Group are not actually recommended, but only the requirement to obtain information on the operation of TES 6 as regards the NIP, as regards HSE – yes, what is wrong with this? What's wrong? Is that an issue? Why do you want to go against it? Why would you oppose getting more information? You are again wrapped in that circle of desire for the uninformedness that we have witnessed in this session many times – this very week. I don't want to know. Is this the principle and manner in which your government, which swears on moral, ethical principles and in the coalition contract, states that the TES 6 independent audit should be carried out and its Members do not wish to be further informed about this project? They don't want to know, they don't want to face their opinions and get direct information that's gonna cost coal. Is it too difficult to obtain this information or to digitize this information, as this information will contribute significantly to the debate on the usefulness of the TES 6 project? Finally, the acquisition of all this information will also contribute to the success of the Commission of Inquiry. It seems like a negative opinion to these recommendations now, I will say, you apologize for being an investigative committee anyway. Yeah, what's wrong if you've been well informed before? Why are you afraid of additional information? The government of Mira Cerar makes the same mistake as the government of Alenka Bratušek did when it was ordered to prepare what the government should prepare when it was black on the white wishes of Members, the government adopted a non-binding decision to simply identify the Government's efforts to solve the problem of the project TES 6. Of course, Desus and SD were sitting in that government, which apparently also in this case is SMC, which for a decade or two less political kilometers accepts such a position. [[…]] In order not to push your head into the sand; see the issue of TES 6 and the need for additional information were also warned by the Court of Auditors, in early November, at the 2013 Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia. They wrote: "We note the issue of the guarantee of TES 6 because there are no specific resources to cover regression claims and the guarantee is not adequately secured." Is there a desire in the government coalition to know again or how? Reports are adopted here, in the National Assembly, in order for Members to have some substantive basis and design for further work. It is not the Member's task not to know, it is the Member's task to provide all relevant information and to use the levers it has by decision at the meetings of the National Assembly to obtain the relevant information. I listened attentively to the Minister, and I also carefully read the report or position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not rebuffed; even more, he says, quote: "In the event that the Government receives recommendations from the National Assembly to obtain this information, it will also request you." The government gives you a green light to decide on the validation of the requirements of the recommendations we have proposed, but apparently you have taken a moment to reconsider, which has lasted for an hour or two or maybe more, and you have concluded that you are not interested in this information. I can't imagine working on an investigative committee in a state where those who do the investigative work don't care about the content or don't want any more information. And I can't help but conclude that obviously your conduct is best summed up either by a statement or by your Prime Minister's response to the action of the Mir Cerar Party, which he said in an interview with Youth today. He said, "The experience is what this instant SMC lacks most and what we gain intensively." See, you will not gain this experience by wanting to not know and that you will not want to get information. You will gain this experience when you are doing your parliamentary work, just as the Constitution says, and as the electorate expected of you. If Desus and the SD can't support this, because you're obviously involved in these stories – I don't know, but the Mir Cerar Party really has no reservations! And if the government gives you a green light to support these proposals, I really don't understand why you don't want to be further informed about this project, which we all agree is an eloquent example of bad practice: the opposition agrees and the position. Just, apparently, some just on a declaration level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you. You want a word with Replica? [[…]] Have you discussed it yet? [[advertising from the hall]] You can't give a replica. You can only put the replica to debate. Okay. Thank you. Mr Mira Kordish has the floor to prepare Mr Danil Anton Ranc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. In this discussion, we have heard a lot about who is to blame, who is not to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, and who is to blame for the recommendations, and who is to blame just a pianist’s game. Okay. We have already been used to this from previous calls of the National Assembly, and we can say that politics continues as usual. I would like to bring a broader, systemic dimension to this debate when we talk about TES 6, and not least when we talk about corruption at all, which has become more or less synonymous with the TES 6 project over the past few years. What does corruption even mean? Corruption is one of the broadest, gravest definitions of intrusion of private interest into the public interest. Okay. This is the point at which we can agree, this is the point at which we agree. But let us now put this claim into a broader social context. We live in capitalism. Mantra capitalism, its main leader, its main engine is capital accumulation; endless capital accumulation, profit-generating. This is not the fruit of some greedy individuals, but it is a matter of the structural structure of the race on the market. Simply, if you don't accumulate capital, it'll be your competition and you'll fall out of this competition. We are talking about the fact that primate in capitalism has a private interest in the whole dynamics of society. Capitalism is corruption. Capitalism is by definition corrupt, by definition based on structural corruption. And what are we witnessing today? Virtually all parties, all discussers, except the United Left, advocate the regime of capitalism. Moreover, they say that we do not have enough capitalism in Slovenia, that we need more companies that have the privilege of private interest. We see this in practice, not just rhetoric. They are privatising both within the government and with the support of the right opposition. Savings measures are advocated by both coalition parties and the right opposition – if we do not mention various measures such as labour market flexibility. In short, on the one hand, we have political actors who wholeheartedly advocate capitalism; on the other hand, they advocate deepening it. On the other hand, they are amazed and moralized about how badly corrupt we are and how terribly big a monument to corruption is TES 6. I agree, TES 6 is a huge monument to corruption. I agree that this area must be taken under scrutiny and found guilty, that responsibility must be established, and that those who have butter on their heads must be sanctioned accordingly. But to defend – sorry – but to question corruption as such, to question the project TEŠ 6 and in the same breath to defend capitalism, deepen capitalism, is, excuse me, contradictory. As I have already mentioned, capitalism is based on corruption based on private interest, and if we really want to address the causes of systemic corruption, we must eliminate capitalism and replace it with socialism for the 21st century. Thus and only this way, we will avoid dealing with one TER 6 and the other TER 6 and the third TER 6; in short, we will treat the symptoms over and over again, but we do not ask about the reasons and do not eliminate them. Moreover, we are introducing policies that are opening the door to more and more corruption. This would be my contribution to this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you. Danilo Anton Ranc has the word to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u97	Dear President, Honourable Minister and Secretary of State, Dear Fellows and Fellows! I note that there is a great deal of debate in Parliament and also in the committees on the topic of TES and that some debates and initiatives want to divert attention from the main political partners of the TES project. Also the words of Comrade Logar, who is unfortunately not in the hall now, when he crucified us as a position that we are not complete – perhaps he is listening to me now. He himself wanted to turn the subject in the wrong direction with his suggestions. It forgets that the TES 6 project contract was signed by your party's colleagues when you were in power. However, it makes no sense now that this new investment is just before the end, to discuss some stories, whether this bloc should operate or not. It was playing with the fate of workers, coal mines and thermal power plants. After all, let us not forget that the investment is based on a natural energy source, a lignite that would otherwise remain untapped, as is the gas field in Prekmurje, and Slovenian energy would be saved by some wise people from China's imported solar power plants and our beautiful Slovenia would screw up with these Chinese products. Similarly, in the case of wood-burning advocates, about so-called praslovan technology, instead of transforming wood into useful products with higher added value in the pulp factory that we have unfortunately closed, and in the wood industry that we are losing. Stopping this project just before the experimental start-up and technical take-over would be like parking a Falcon in a hangar instead of being in service. This investment must be tested and the supplier required to meet all contractual obligations, technical characteristics and operating costs to optimise production costs as low as possible. The SMC also clearly identified the need to clarify irregularities and also to include political responsibility in research in all competent authorities. In this direction, there is also a government that has requested an investigative process that is already going on intensively and has already produced results, as many are involved in the implementation of the project in the investigation process. In the past, a number of attempts were made by two parties in the direction of mutual political prosecution, accounting and, in essence, they were both involved in the design of this project and supported the signing of the contract – I think the Commission of Inquiry will also answer these questions – and in the background, the battle of lobbyists who have interests in energy or the sale of equipment, investment equipment, electricity trading and imports of Indonesian coal. But the problem is not solved. Both lobby and management structures have managed to shift attention from non-rational energy, which is poorly organised, to the political floor. That's what we're talking about here today. However, we can note that SDH did not play its role as a state-owned asset manager, nor did the previous government, which did not monitor the implementation of the guarantee law and on its basis signed contracts between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and TEC, where commitments were signed both on the value of the investment, the price of coal and the deadline for completion. A year ago, the NIP 6 should have been produced, which should have been justified by the HSE leadership of the announced "emergency" and has not yet been produced. There is no way to blame politics or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the key responsibility of HSE, TES and partly SDH. For these reasons, we support the establishment of an investigative commission in the SMC Party, which will determine the political responsibility and interconnectivity of the policies and lobbies of certain management structures. In the Mir Cerar Party, we will advocate that responsibility for TES be investigated in the following way: in the context of the investigation procedures, the law enforcement authorities will investigate the responsibility to exceed the investment value of the originally signed contract value and also to determine where and whose accounts this money is located and to return it to the investor. However, within the framework of the Commission of Inquiry, political responsibility in relation to the political partners supporting the project required the signing of an investment contract and affected the decision of management and supervisory councils. However, I think that we are dealing too much with the past in Parliament. The Commissions of Inquiry should do their work as soon as possible and we should focus on the future. We need to prepare a strategy of Slovenian energy or Slovenian energy concept, which will be based on energy self-sufficient industry, which will promote energy consumption reduction, energy waste reduction and elephants on natural renewables such as hydropower, wind energy, and, of course, a second block of nuclear power will probably need to be considered in Krske. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Madam President! It is a very interesting debate, fellow Rance, but when it comes to signing contracts, it is important to know that these are people with a name and no political functionaries, and I think the rest of the investigations will find that out. It is interesting to note, however, that the Government does not implement the contract signed by it by the guarantee contracts. Therefore, it is even more surprising that you have not accepted our recommendations, and once again you find that it is necessary to look to the future, and again it is in contradiction with what we recommend or what we want with these recommendations, because it is precisely looking to the future or alerting us to what can happen if we do not have timely scenarios on companies involved in building block 6 prepared, evaluated and prepared for the next scenario. If that's not looking into the future, then I don't know. And if you're looking at our recommendations, they say we want a written report on the state of the art on Project TES 6. You also spoke of this, that we do not know that the Government does not implement its decisions, that it does not respect the implementation of its contract, because the contract clearly states that TES must report, present, document all exceptions or derogations from that contract. We do not have these reports and the Government does not have them, and the Government has found this in its response. Thus, binding contracts do not respect the Government, do not respect TES and you quietly go over our recommendations. We wanted information on the adoption or validation of the NIP. You've also noticed that we haven't had this in over a year. No one has explained why it departs from the NIP 5, which is a binding part of the guarantee contract, has no written justification neither the Ministry nor the Government, nor you as a new coalition party, and when we ask for this information to see what it is, you say that you are aware of everything. That's what the chairman of the committee said. However, you now find that you do not have this information, but the recommendations we have made to inform the Committee and the National Assembly and so on do not support it. We wanted information on the completion of the investment in the guarantee contract, in particular as regards the amount and value of the investment and the price of coal. You too find that this is a key part of this story. No one has so far justified why the price of the value in the guarantee contract and audited through the audit report of the revised programme 5 is valid and is the only valid at this time, since NIP 6 does not have any credibility, the document is in preparation. When we want information on why this value of the guarantee contract is not respected, you say you don't need it. And also as regards the price of coal, where all speakers have found that this is a key part that will mean the profitability or non-profitability of this project also below. Next. We wanted information on the planned business outcome of HSE and TES for the next five years, an assessment of how these two companies would react in the event that this inherited investment would result in a greater loss or profit, we do not know what scenario these two companies will have in order to compensate for these unfavourable business outcomes under block 6. This is because, through the law of guarantee and through ownership, the government still owns these two companies. In the final stage, if these two companies are doing bad business, we will probably be adopting a law in the National Assembly or a solution to prevent these two societies from sinking, which are in 100% state ownership. When we want information, if these two companies are preparing a solution in case the script is bad, you're saying you don't need that information. They'll save the others. I don't understand. Similarly, when we want information on the planned risk management measures related to investment, and for these two companies, you do not want this information either. Even if we want to warn the Government to acquire and prepare a scenario in the event of this guarantee being cashed out, how it will react, you do not want to hear it or do not want it to be prepared. These are all measures for the future when you talk about whether we look back or look back. There was no nominally exposed signatory or anything in this Recommendation. The only two of them with a name and surname are the bearers of the guarantee laws, because this is the first document that this National Assembly has decided on. No other treaty has been decided by this National Assembly. Everything signed with regard to the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant has no direct connection with this Parliament. The first thing that has to do with the National Assembly is a guarantee contract. That's why we're talking about her. Since then, we have also drawn attention to the decisions taken by the National Assembly and to the decisions adopted by the committees and to which there are no feedbacks – which you also point out and note that we do not have this information. We do not go into whether the Thermoelectric Shoštanj is a suitable object, an inappropriate object, or whether a thing has been done or not. You can see for yourself that all other authorities now find this out, from the police, the KPK and others, and we will also set up an investigative commission on political responsibility. All right, well, nobody's got a problem with it, neither are we. But we wonder why no one takes the decisions we take in the National Assembly and the conclusions and commitments adopted by the ministries and the government. And why we don't have any feedback on that. You're asking the same question, but you don't support our conclusions. Earlier, it was also pointed out that we wanted to warn the Government to prepare, as soon as possible, an amendment or addition to legislation for those bodies that were in the phase when they were asked to try to investigate certain things, they found that they did not have a legal basis for certain things. You also deny this recommendation. That way, I don't know who's fooling who or who's fooling around here. We never once said that this project should be stopped. The project is over, you yourself have found that 99% has already been paid. Nobody's talking about stopping the project. But we're talking about the following scenarios that someone has to predict. If the price of energy is still falling significantly and it will be even cheaper on the stock market, or if someone has predicted that we put this block in some cold reserve, which means that, I don't know, we freeze it for the next three, four years and it won't work. This was done by the Austrians with one of their nuclear power plants because they found that their operation was not paying off at the moment. Nobody wants to predict these scenarios, and that's all we're warning and you're giving the same warning. Above all, the problem is that the guarantee contract is signed and that no one gives the reports provided for in these articles, which the Government notes in its reply, not least. The government has even agreed that our recommendations, which, unfortunately, you have already rejected on the Committee and we cannot repeat them now, but this initiative, which the Government has also assessed that it would be right to have them in some way and that it has an instrument, that certain things may also require of individual companies, you have rejected them. Now you all realize we're missing this. So I hope that we will not find out in the same way when the Commission of Inquiry: we would like to, but we do not want to see or hear.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, it is right that we all learn as much complete information as possible, not only Members and not only politicians, but the entire Slovenian public. Since this is about TES, I will kindly say, this is a curious matter, if the six million are involved, the investment rises to a billion four hundred and twenty-four -- I hope this is the last piece of data -- then something really is wrong with this goat. Many stakeholders were involved in these stories, various ministers from this party and that party, some parliamentary compositions, some responsible persons or supervisory authorities, a few members or administrations and so on and so on. When I look at these numbers a little bit, I quickly recalculate and find out what's next. Only the difference from the initial investment to today, transferred to the budget of the Municipality of Maribor, between 9 and 10 budgets – according to consumption this year. Do you know what that means? This means, in other words, six years of payment of child allowances for all children eligible in Slovenia. So something's obviously wrong here. I hate to draw parallels, but something similar happened to Tam. Those who will remember how there was salvation, salvation, salvation, and, in the end, nothing could be saved or saved. I am, of course, concerned about the self-sustainment of the Slovenian space with energy, which, at least for the moment, if you listen to experts, depends on one third of this kind of energy. If this turns out to be one third lost, we are dependent on another source that can be subject to much higher prices. I am also very concerned about all employees in entities, economic, economic, which are tied, directly or indirectly to the Termoelectrica Šostanyj. I have looked very closely, read your demands, and I must say that many are not unjustifiable. Two key requirements, information on the planned business outcome for the next five years has also been adopted, but this is a key issue or one of the key issues, and information on the planned risk management measures related to investment and so on has also been taken into account. Some others, even points three, four, that I don't list here now, because you know what I'm talking about, you wrote them yourself, three four and five seem more general to me. However, I am also of the opinion that the investigative commission, which will determine the political responsibility of those involved here, is the best or the most appropriate way, if you want the means, for the matter to come to a bottom. In doing so, I sincerely wish to ask that all those who will or will participate in this committee take this committee as seriously as possible, that there will be no bad river, that I will set up a commission because I do not want to finish anything. Let it not be for the commission, but let it be for the commission to lead these committees, so that we can step on the fingers of those who — if they, of course — have anointed their fingers with honey. Here I should tell my colleague Logar, however, "Desus is involved in these stories". No, no, my friend Angie, Desus is really not involved in this story! How was he to be involved in these stories, except that the Members of Desus throughout the whole time Desus was represented in Parliament by his parliamentary group, in some way – colleague Hršak initially said – they were naive and believed everything you had been given to them at the table. It is likely that then, and not only the Members of Desus, but also the other Members of all the Members of the Group, should be more critical, more energetic, more doubtful about the information they receive during this long period of time. The fact that the Government gives the Green Light to the National Assembly – of course, all respect for the Government, we cooperate, I think it is quite right, but I think it is the other way around; Parliament gives the green light to the government or the red light to the government. Summary of everything: I sincerely hope that the Commission will achieve its purpose and that if, of course, someone has been wronged here, they will also be properly punished, but there will be no supply, that is to say, the self-sustainment of our country with electricity and will not be paid by those who have not cooked things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u102	Replica, mag. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much, President. Look, I really can't be responsible for this if Desus has been naive so far and he just believed every time and every time that everything was okay. But Comrade Prikl has used the past, so until now he has been naive, and now he's obviously no longer naive. However, let me explain, if he is no longer naive now that he is no longer naive, he does not want any further information about TES 6 and does not want to support the conclusions of the Slovenian Democratic Party which lead to the collection of additional information on the basis of which the Slovenian public and we Members will have direct and credible information on the state of the TES6 project. Thus, this reason, I mean naivety or naivety, cannot really be an excuse for rejecting the conclusions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u104	Comrade Prikl, what do you want? The replica doesn't work. [[advertising from the hall]] [[…]] Procedurally, Comrade Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u105	I was talking about naivety, not my own, but the naivety of those who confirmed the relatively easy arguments of HSE here. But when I talk about the commission, I'm talking about my taste and my thinking about the best means or the method of getting to the bottom of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u106	It was a procedural abuse. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, SDS, has the floor. Prepare Mrs Andreja Katič, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you. I have to take this. I must tell my colleague that we are not discussing the Commission now, but we are discussing recommendations relating to the future of this project. However, I agree with you that the Commission of Inquiry will respond on political responsibility, but all these recommendations talk about technical matters, they talk about financial matters that may affect us in the next step. With this, when we are likely to establish it, the Commission will not be busy, so please talk about the facts that are on the table and we are not talking about the commission, although all of you are distracted by what the Commission is going to deal with. I already told you, we don't have any problems with that. With these recommendations, we would like to draw attention to the fact that both the Government and we, as Parliament, are preparing for some scenarios that may happen if the energy market continues to fall so relentlessly on the price of energy sources and what will happen at that given moment if the guarantee is cashed out. These recommendations have been written about this, not about what the Commission will investigate. Once again, we don't have any problems with the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u108	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At this point, this is the real investment of the TER 6 block, I worry about the future, not so much the past. The past is quite familiar to me, or I'm just going to give a brief glimpse that it was the biggest investment that was driven by the most individual and imprecise, which he has fully led, I would say. It's an energy joke lobby. There were no invitations to tender for this investment, where those companies owned by the state could also participate. Despite the engineering knowledge, the consulting knowledge we have in these companies, which led all the biggest investments in the Republic of Slovenia, except for the investment in the TES 6 block, there were no such investments. And here I wonder if it really was just a case or a case of purpose. But I'd rather go back, look into the future. Yeah, I'm worried about the future of this project! I am concerned that the financial forecasts for both the operation of the Heat Power Plant and the HSE Group in the future are not pink or the forecasts are black. If there are black forecasts, then it means that the business numbers of these companies will be red. And that's worrisome. As it has already been said today, TES Block 6 will not only produce electricity but will also produce financial loss. Even more worrying is the fact that the state has made a guarantee. Also, 440 million is a lot of money if this money is not eloquent by adding its added value on return. It is important here to answer some of the questions about how this project can be implemented in the future, because the risks are still very high. See, the facility is on completion stage just before the end, but today, even today, we do not have a clear financial structure or financial framework for the completion of this investment, as the new investment programme, so called NIP 6, has not yet been adopted, says the last amendment to the investment project. We still do not know what can happen here until the end of construction in a financial sense. We don't have that information. This final investment programme has been discussed for one year. I don't know if anything has happened in this one year that is as certain as it is that this investment programme could also see the light of the world and thus inform us of how it will be with the final investment, with the final value of this project. I would also like to commend the judiciary that even in reviewing the legal conduct of the authorities and the management that led this investment, that there is a judiciary here, I would say, operationally. I am very much in favour of the Commission to verify all the conduct in relation to this investment whether they were correct or not. We owe this to all taxpayers and all other players who have also participated in this investment. In order to be a little safer here and not worry about the future, we need answers to the questions raised. This was the purpose of our parliamentary group when proposing today's item: a carefree future or a future in which we will know what lies ahead in this energy field or in the very investment of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. That is all we want, nothing else: that our future will be carefree and that we know what lies ahead: whether we face bad times or whether we will make this investment in the future in positive waters. That's all we want to know, that's all. Of course, on the other hand, to reveal all practices that were wrong. Just that, nothing else — so much opposition! We only want a carefree future and nothing else; and information on how this project will go into the future. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u110	Mrs Andreja Katič, SD, has the floor. Prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. As soon as the Director of Peter Dermol took office in May 2013, a thorough review of the project was carried out and a cross-section was recorded. It was found that the project did not meet the time and financial obligations set out in the contract. These findings are the management of the company by letter of 24. 5. 2013 a notice from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry and the only member of the HSE, the debate was also here on one of the committees. TES is in accordance with the commitments set out in the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 15. Seven. 2013 Government of the Republic of Slovenia 29. Ten. 2013 submitted an amendment to the investment programme setting up the replacement block 6, revision 6, drawn up at the cut-off date 3. Ten. 2013 – so NIP 6, but it is true that it has not been confirmed by HSE. The Minister says here in this letter that we received in the report of 30. 6. TES did not mention anything about the problem of the Coal Velenje d. d. Here in a letter, which is not marked by public secrecy, and at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance, you must have it, it says: "TEM was faced with a problem in May 2013 in the preparation of the revised investment programme 6 when the project was being implemented, as well as with the problem of changing circumstances at the time the project was being implemented relating to electricity prices on the markets, the possibility of reaching contractually defined coal prices, as well as the TEM operating regime itself after the completion of the project. The resolution of this problem in the HSE group is still ongoing." I suggest that your associates give you this letter if you don't, I can give it to you. I didn't say before, Block 6 for the Shale Valley means a cleaner environment. The former director, Peter Dermol, was probably replaced because of all these warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u112	Does Mr. Franz Breznik, SDS Applicant have the floor? Okay. The text is requested by the proposer, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you. I am very grateful to my colleague Katič, who has just made it very clear that it would be right for these recommendations, now not anymore, to be accepted, but to be confirmed by the committee. She waved with certain documents that only she had and even offered to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. That is exactly what we are pointing out, and we want to go through these recommendations, because this has always happened in the past. You yourself mentioned, I think, a spring session on the Infrastructure Committee, where they came with a new number that was 140 million higher than the one passed in the guarantee law. At that time, however, the Ministry and all the authorities that participated in this meeting could not put any document into the hands on which one of us would change his homeland and say that the guarantee law was wrong, NIP 6 is better than NIP 5. Just because of the things you've been talking about, where some documents exist, we don't have those we owe to get those documents. In accordance with the law of guarantee, it is right or right that, at that time, on a committee about a week ago, all of our recommendations, which were well - intentioned, should be avoided in such situations that some people know, someone else does not know, exclude. However, as has been said several times before, you all note that we do not have certain information to be right to have it, so that we continue to make the right decision on certain things that may come to our table, not on the contracts for which the business entities are in charge. As I said, we can only request information and data on the basis of a guarantee contract adopted by the National Assembly and in which commitments are made. However, as you do in this situation, you do not want to receive this information either. Everything else is being investigated by other authorities. Also political responsibility, we have already found, will be investigated by the commission to be set up. However, certain reports required by the guarantee law impose and which Members have the right to receive – including those that have confirmed the guarantee law – I do not avoid this – and you did not wish to confirm this on the committee. And right now it's in the most transparent form that there are some documents that there are some reports that obviously neither the government nor the ministry knows, but someone does. But we don't have any MPs and they don't have a National Assembly and they don't have a committee. This is not a problem for me, so that it would be in any way wrong, but we have pointed out this and proposed that we, as the Government's National Assembly, receive these reports. The government has even written that it supports these efforts and that it will do so and even find that it will obtain some data as soon as possible. Apparently, there's not much to it. Someone's not doing what I said, not just conclusions, but obviously contracts. But someone is also operating on additional documents, for which it would be right that we all have them in the National Assembly and that we know what lies ahead in the next situation, as I said, when some of the circumstances in the energy market will change again and we will come up with a proposal to take a solution in the National Assembly to save societies that are 100 percent state-owned. At that time, the Government will bring a document and we will not again have all the source information to make a transparent decision. Once again, to decide on the guarantee law, we had on the table documents containing clear signatures of the people who wrote these documents. If anyone thinks that a Member may question certain documents that are being revised, I do not know on what basis Members could then decide on the guarantee law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u114	Mr Franz Breznik SDS has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Dolinšek SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u115	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I listened to you with great joy here in the hall, as well as in my office, where my radio was turned on. At the beginning of my debate, however, I would somehow try to explain to those who do not come from the engineering lines at least roughly why, on the one hand, those who claim or who have claimed in their debates about the thermoelectric power plant that they need, you are right, and what happened in this project, at least in a few stages. So, energy supply, we have to admit, is strategically important for every country. Indeed, there is some sale and purchase of electricity, but quality supplies or the integrity of electricity supply are of strategic importance for each country. For the first time, even when you buy electricity on markets that are relatively stable now, it has a low price, you always need to know that you need to book some purchases in advance and you get a better price as a result of this reservation. Slovenia has so far had a stable supply, I can say. This stable supply, I'm talking about that it has somehow properly distributed resources. So we have one third of the source that we have with the Krška nuclear power plant, another third comes from the thermal power plant, and the other third comes from alternative sources along with the water source. Of course, this electricity is always the cheapest, and sometimes this source is also unstable, as you know because of the climate or other situations where water levels fall, etc. As a result, at least in the past, for the integrity of the supply, at least one third of the profession has been linked to the installation of a pump power plant in the Drava Power Plants. The second part of the matter, however, is to be known that the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant has so far been a stable source of energy, even at the time of the failures or repairs of the Krko nuclear power plant. This is important, and any country that has thermal power plants — including those that have better coal — aspire to this strategic importance for energy stability. Part two – of course, we are talking about the so-called phased work. So, all the time in thermal power plants, somehow, where you can pick up and power down or buy energy, you kind of regulate the energy system in every country. This is why thermal power plants are needed. Now, what happened in Slovenia? By then the first Janša government was aware that the Termoelekrana Šoštanj, at least block 4, 5, was slowly concluding and that it would be necessary either to repair or build a new side. But all that happened after the end of the government in 2009 was in this direction: for the first time, the biggest corruption began when they prepared the tender, for the first time, only the power of this power plant. That's what you have to say. I have held back myself several times in the past because I worked in Siemens, which was one of the providers, and it did not seem hygienic to me that on many attacks by Alstom as a French company, although I was not in the energy part of Siemens, but in electronic work, in automation, but I felt right to tell those colleagues and colleagues who may not have been monitoring this, that if Slovenia had demanded some 400-megawat project, there were at least 10 or more providers on the world market. So, competition would also be extremely large in the public tender and a 400-megawat project would probably cost the megawatt a lot less than 650-megawatt, which was, we could say, a la carte project. ا la carte in that it is precisely for this project that only two tenderers could run in this area. This is where the whole story began to develop. So only two bidders, because we chose a la carte. Whether Slovenia needed these 250 additional megawatts or not, I am opening the question. Probably not. During this time there were other alternative sources, which of course cost something, with which we also buy CO2 releases, etc. We're also trying to build some kind of a foundation for some green energy, so here's the beginning of the whole story. The second beginning of the story is a letter from a colleague to the then Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, 2009, when colleague Andrej Vizjak said that the project was left to itself after the operation of Mr Pahor's government. So they needed a lot of naive people who didn't know the problem that didn't know these systems, and this project could have been running, I could say, some free running. In this free course of this project, the policy has not reacted and some of the pillars of this country can be said to have not monitored this project. This is what's important because the project went to 650 megawatts. So, we went on the start for a la carte project, which is something special, where all the competition fell out and eventually they remained only Siemens and Alstom and the investigation will likely show why Alstom was chosen and not Siemens I think some indications are already showing this, the rest may also be an investigation in this House. Perhaps at least in the second part of my discussion I would like to try to present one study, which is also, I can say, one corruption, this is a study by Evonik. In it you can see why blocks 4 and 5 are totally non-profitable, a lot of things are attracted to hair. The second part of the document recommended for reading to colleagues is the Technological and Environmental Risks of TES 6 by Professor Miroslav Gregorič from 15 February 2012. A very interesting study, which answers a whole range of issues regarding the profitability of this project, because I believe that all these documents, which Professor Gregorič wrote in this document, will also affect the future fate of this project even after the completion of the phase. And that's essentially what we're alerting you to today and which is why we've also drawn conclusions. Colleagues were talking about the guarantee law, that it was necessary to prevent the cashing, because I think there's a whole range of arguments, indictives and so on. The second part of the matter, which I would have warned in my own debate, is that of Germany. You won't hear about it, you won't hear about it, and I'd tell you what's going on in the future. So far, everything I have foretold as a Member has come true. I can say that at the time of Christmas, I am, I can say, a fortune teller — sadly, many things have come true. The matter currently under way in Germany has been in Duisburg for two years, but it is a matter that is likely to come true for us as well. So, what was going on? Germany has been building its energy supply over the last few years on photovoltaics in Bavaria and another part of its supply on wind power plants in northern Germany. They have major problems with the transfer of energy, which is why the Germans decided a few years ago to build some thermal power plants. As we know, the Germans are fortunate to have so - called browns as well as some black coal in Silesia. As we know, at least most who are generally educated, we have already learned about coals in primary school, about their calorie value; so, the lowest is peat, then comes lignite, then comes brown coal, comes black coal. Because this lignite optimally burned to have the smallest CO2 emissions per megawatt, Alstom — also Siemens — used it today, high - pressure and high - temperature combustion technology. This is this technology, and for this technology, it was necessary to invent or build a new steel that would withstand all these pressures and all these temperatures. This is a special steel where titanium and molybdenum are added and steel has a commercial T 24. What am I talking about now? I don't want to have a lecture on chemistry or metallurgy, but what I'm saying is that there's a whole series of affairs in Duisburg because they showed up at their thermal power plants built by Alstom, cracks. Cracks on these thermal power plants. It is recommended that future thermal power plants may use in such a way that they do not lift or run at short intervals of energy supply or electricity production. This means that this thermal power plant in Šostanje is in the future – just what will be the decisive phase to work in the phase; this means that it adapts to the electricity system, to raise, to add energy and also to run, because this energy is more expensive because you keep calculating what is more expensive and what is cheaper, what is cheaper – that it will not work. This is a new problem that will arise even if this project comes into operation. So, cracks on the T24 steel. That's the problem. Look, I've got Spiegel talking about this problem, and I think it was June 27, 2011, and I'm not going to explain it to you, and I'm going to translate it, and look at it online. Dear colleagues, then comes the next point, the transmission network; at one location in Šostanje we have 650 megawatts installed. What does this mean for a transmission network, according to home-made cables. Will they make it? There will also be a problem because the transmission network will need to be modernised. There are a whole series of new problems, even though you've been talking about a complex value today, it's the energy value of lignite. I think you've received e-mails, or I can give you a letter from coal workers or TES workers talking about the incredibly poor quality of coal, which literally contains only mud, ashes and rocks. But there is another problem, that is, the commercial part, that all the calculations that have been made in the past do not last. This is why we have drawn conclusions today, and one of these conclusions is that the Government prepares a report and that the National Assembly recommends that the Government prepare a written report within 15 days on the activities to prevent the cancellation of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the TES 6 project of EUR 440 million. However, what is still necessary is information regarding the acceptance or approval of NIP 6. What I am talking about here should also be some part of the NIP 6, so there are still risks that will take place after the start of this project. For this reason, you, colleagues and colleagues, in fact, also with just this point as members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, are somehow asked, we point out that the matter is still on the loose and that parliamentary supervision is also in this case, despite the fact that the United Left has requested a parliamentary investigation, is still on the loose. If any of the lobbyists accompanying the TES 6 project want naive policies, policies that know little about energy, policies that do not feel that this project is running for certain risks. However, I would not agree with my colleagues from the United Left that this project is a problem of capitalism. I'm saying the opposite. This is one of the last socialist major projects. This is the last remnant of the economy of the socialist approach, the collective guilt that will eventually prove itself, and this is something that I do not understand. Such projects were countless in the past in Slovenia or Yugoslavia because journalists were under some kind of censorship, never written about them. In a foreign country where there's a private investor where his money is used to do such a project, there's no such slides. This is typical in a country where there is no sense of ownership, where all our property is and it doesn't matter to us whether we control whether it goes out of our wallet or not. But this project, which produces, not only is it imprudent that it already has large elements of corruption in it, it will produce extremely expensive electricity that can sink a whole group of HSEs. And it'll affect every household. Every household! Electricity, which will be more expensive, will also affect our competitive environment in Slovenia and so on. For those of you who give these arguments, I can show you these projects. In all socialist countries, you have a whole range of such dirty thermal power plants because they were run by a similar system. This is not an element of capitalism, but is a typical product of socialist approach and socialism. So much for me, but I wish you all a pleasant holiday and a happy new year together, and above all, dear colleagues and colleagues, watchful eyes, because somehow we remind you of things that we have also warned you about in our other Janša government and have proved to be true. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you. Replo wanted Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. I wanted to respond to the allegations that the TES 6 project was a typical socialist project, for the rest of socialism and how it was usually in some or so in some socialist countries. I agree, we can take many things from real socialism to be both critical and learning. In this case alone, there is one fundamental difference; and this is that in some society, which, with all mistakes, is trying to get out of logic that favours capital accumulation and private interest, in the logic of production for the needs of people, in fact, when we talk about corruption, we are talking about some excess, about the intrusion of a private interest in the public interest as something external. But when capitalism is ahead of us, we are talking about capital accumulation, about private interest, about the capture of profits as the basic driving force of a company that takes over this company, which affects this society in all aspects. In this sense, when we talk about corruption, not least when we talk about TES 6, we can say that capitalism is corrupt by its definition. There is a fundamental difference here: whether we are talking about excesses or we are talking about basic systemic logic. And let me add someone else to this point. In the United Left, we strongly agree that some bureaucratic mastodonts who are supposed to manage society for the benefit of its entire population are a problem. This is certainly a problem; for the first time because such governance is undemocratic, and for the second time because we are just talking about corruption, because it is precisely such bureaucratic mastodonts that are very perceptive to such and different forms of corruption. That is why we are talking in the United Left about democratic socialism, how we manage both production and politics, the environment that surrounds people. That's what we're talking about in the United Left when we're talking about socialism. Last but not least, we have stressed it differently to establish a link and at the same time to the emancipatory struggles of the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u118	Please limit the debate, two minutes is a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u119	I'm closing up right now. We are talking about democratic socialism precisely because there is a point here where the pathways of past emancipatory battles differ with today's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you. It wasn't exactly a replica, and time was over. Next time, please. Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor now. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, representative of the Ministry! Who is to blame for the TEC story, to identify the law enforcement authorities and to punish them accordingly. Today TESH is here. It would be a mistake to think, but now let's just give TEC some canning, because it's not worth it, it's gonna be too expensive. Let's just let it go. This is the story that's been going on until today. TES is almost in operation and such thinking would be extremely inappropriate and harmful, for thinking in the direction that it is better to import electricity because, for the moment or for some time now, as well as predictions pointing in this direction, prices are very low on the market and favourable. There is no way that mathematics can come out here, under no circumstances, except when the price of electricity from imports is lower than the variable costs from TES. Import dependence would increase dangerously, up to 40%. What does that mean? I don't think there's any need to explain. With regard to this investment, TEŠ 6 must strictly distinguish the possible misconduct of the decision-makers in the decision-making process on the implementation of this investment from the issue of the import dependence of the Republic of Slovenia. It means the importance of block 6 for the Slovenian electricity system mainly in terms of the provision of system services, for the system operator of the transmission network. The future role of the TES will depend on the price of strategic importance for the Republic of Slovenia, in terms of cost-effectiveness. I would like to point out that future non-recovery of TES means an increase in the import dependence of the Republic of Slovenia, which entails higher electricity prices, long-term vulnerability of the Slovenian electricity system and more. That TES 6 has a long beard, we all know. It is right to redefine the responsibility of every player in this long story, as I have already mentioned, of the relevant authorities, and I am sure that the findings will and will also be known the names of all the actors involved in this long story. It is important that today and in the future such and future abuses are prevented, and that is what the current leadership is responsible for, and we must clearly ask them to do, these are the leaderships of TES, HSE, Velenje Coal and SDH. I hope that all these leaders are aware of the seriousness of the situation and are also aware of their responsibilities. Therefore, it is essential that the Government obtains all the necessary information on the planned business outcome of HSE and TES for the next five years in view of the investment of TES 6 and information on the planned risk management measures, since we still do not know the clear answers to this point, or whether the stocks in Pregogovnik Velenje are at all sufficient for the 40-year period of operation. It's to make sure the supplies aren't enough. We are also asked about imports, and a lot has been written about this in various media. And this is where we come up with the next answer. Then; if we are thinking about imports, it is imperative to think about the construction of the unloading station, which costs the intervention, that investment in the unloading station is another EUR 10 to 15 million – from where imports are based on the calorie value and at what price. Furthermore, the fact that it is necessary to rent, specifically by Eles, an additional 205-megawatt tertiary reserve. Taking into account the average annual value of the lease, the megawatt to the tertiary reserves, and multiplying it by 40 years, as much as TES 6 is supposed to operate, this would cost the circus EUR 400 million. This is because the initial planned investment in no more than 400 megawatt block was at this location. This fact has not been explained until today, and the decision was only the same as it was. The decision was for 600 megawatts because the projection at the time was that 400 in Velenje and 200 megawatt block building at the location of TE Trbovlje. If this scenario had happened, today there would not have been 165 people on the road with us, in the Rippers, and there would have been no TET in liquidation. I would like to stress that investments are still and are opening up to this story TEŠ 6, and I am sure that we will get answers from our government to what I said earlier – a projection for five years, what the situation is and what the amounts are. Let me conclude with the question of when will this long beard — what I have mentioned in two, three cases — continue to grow and who benefits from it. However, it is essential that we seriously consider, prepare and adopt an energy strategy by 2020, with proposals for measures that will be clear and unequivocal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u122	The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, United Left, prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Since my colleague has spent too much time without curtosis, in the introduction I will name some names: the government – Tone Rop, the government – Janez Janša, the government – Borut Pahor, the Minister of Lahovnik, the Minister of Radičeva, the government – Borut Pahor, the government – Borut Pahor, the government – Janez Janša; as the National Assembly, I will repeat, with the support of only 29 members during the government led by Janša, the guarantee for new loans of almost half a billion euros. Only Members of the NSI voted against the proposal in full. These are some of the facts that we know of, the so-called old left and the right had quite a few possibilities to stop. Will TES 6 make us pay too much electricity? Is Holding Slovenian Power Plants at Risk with TES 6? Will the miners draw again briefly? The answer is very uniform and is :yes. Great energy experts come from technical disciplines. I have not heard that today we would talk about the energy efficiency of Slovenia, where – the Minister can say – we are far behind the European average. We're listening to some political archaeology again; in short, Desus was naive, the rest of you weren't naive, in the end we're going to have guarantees, fucked-up miners, socialists, in short, 2 billion, and so on, through the finger we're actually saying. My fellow Daniel said that the messenger cannot doubt; the messenger must doubt. I have doubts about everything; every matter that an expert prepares for me, every proposal for a law, every European directive, because it is my job. Pika. My friend's laughing now. If we had any more doubts, I'd apologize, we wouldn't have this shit that we have now and that we're gonna have to eat. I have been asking students for the last month where the two main sources of corruption are in Slovenia. Everyone can tell me that the first one is energy. They usually forget about the other one — public health contracts. People kind of know that. TER 6 will sink or sink Zasavje because of TER 6 and the lie around it will sink the mine of lignite in Velenj, these are some of the facts the government will have to deal with. The restless future was spoken by a colleague. My dears, there will be no such thing. Even if you haven't studied sociology, start to realize that. TES 6 is a stable source of corruption, TES 6 will be a stable source of headache and migraine, with which we will have to deal with it somehow. I hope that we will finally – we will have some kind of public opinion – also engage in energy efficiency in order to learn something from TES 6. Colleagues from the SDS would like to wash their hands at least partially here, and with the exception of New Slovenia, perhaps another local February, you were all involved in this story from the old policy. It's just a fact -- now Dani, whether you're moving or not. I hope TES 6 never happens to us again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u124	The text is by the proposer, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. I don't have a problem with being in this story. I said I supported the guarantee, and I also said why. Otherwise, the price at that time would be higher for the country, because both TES and HSE and all other companies are in the 100 % country list. And if TES leased a loan on, I would say, commercial work, the interest would be significantly higher if TES went bankrupt, but the government or the state and parliament would also decide how to cover these holes. And the guarantee does not burden this Parliament and the government and taxpayers until the moment the guarantee is regularly repaid. Therefore, it was our desire that these recommendations should be avoided if the guarantee was to be cashed out. With everything else that my buddy Duck was saying, I have no problem. As for whether we have doubts about certain matters or not, we are not talking about studies, we are not talking about some of the opinions that someone has drawn up, we are talking about signed documents. [[…]] About the signed documents, where someone declares in full consciousness that it stands, which puts it on the table. Now, if anyone can doubt this – as a Member, I cannot make a study on coal stocks if someone with three, four documents turns out to be and signs under this document; I cannot doubt the price that someone signs and guarantees as a director of a company, where he will eventually have to assume responsibility for misleading someone in the National Assembly; I cannot doubt the audit report that a renowned international institution writes about NIP 5. I don't know who's giving me this right, but the National Assembly can ask for some kind of review, but as a Member, I have these documents on the table. It's not about some imaginary documents, it's about all the documents where the institutions are and where people have their names and names. I hope that this will be identified by a commission that we will decide on below. And in that case, there's a big difference. However, if the Minister arrives in the National Assembly in March, he speaks of the NIP 6, which is neither audited nor certified in any body of companies, nor in TES or in HSE, and does not bring any relevant decision-making document and claims that the investment has increased by 140 million and is now a billion 440, not as much as we have committed ourselves to the guarantee law, and this is not the same. At a given time when the guarantee was on the table, there were documents and for these documents were people with names and surnames that guaranteed certain things. Whether they had a fig in their pocket or not, it will probably be necessary to find out below. However, this guarantee law has given a tool to both the National Assembly and the Government that some things require and now you all realize that it makes sense. Also, colleague Marjan Dolinšek spoke about the fact that we should have a five-year scenario. Yes, see what we recommended and what we suggested on the committee where you rejected these recommendations: "Information on the planned business outcome of HSE and TES for the next five years with regard to the investment of TES 6". It is precisely that there is a scenario of what will happen in the case of different prices of energy consumers on the market – about what colleague Dolinšek said. We also recommended many other things to be carried out in accordance with this guarantee law. Now you all realize that this would be a good idea, but you didn't accept the recommendations. That way, I don't know who's fooling who. We do not deal, as I have already said, with whether TES is needed, not needed, or will be smoking in the next moment coal at this and the second price We only find that the guarantee law has been passed, which has imposed obligations on the Government and the National Assembly, and we only want information from the guarantee law, whether these obligations are fulfilled or not, and what if they are not fulfilled. [[…]] You're talking about NIP 6, which is still not on the table. While the Government also notes that it does not have information from this address and will seek to obtain certain information as soon as possible. However, when the recommendations are made at the table, they are easily rejected and now you are concerned with the wisdom of having certain information. Good morning!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u126	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members! From this debate I can actually summarise and find that somehow we all agree that this investment was not all right. Now we have to decide what to do; what to do in return and what to do in advance. In return, we need to find out all the cases where things went wrong here, whether someone has taken advantage of themselves, and here certain activities are already taking place. The designated authorities shall already carry out their tasks within their respective competences. The Commission is active in preventing corruption, the Court of Auditors is active, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. In short, some of these authorities have done or are still carrying out their tasks. I expect that some conclusions will come from these activities and that if it is found that someone is responsible for any mistakes, they will also be called to account. There are also certain activities on the part of the Government to determine what was wrong. An interdepartmental working group has been set up to prepare further, in addition to what is already under way, a specific legislative basis so that in short, investigations of all possible irregularities can be investigated and found to the bottom to say so. It is also the intention of this working group to create some basis or rules of the game, that even in the future there will be no longer the possibility of such poor investment management, that in fact it can only be established that all the past decisions were based on incomplete, incorrect data and that the investment was always somehow in the stage that everyone who made the decision was then faced with a so-called enforceable fact. In short, this should no longer be repeated in the future and clear rules will be established for all major investments, so that these options will be maximized. A parliamentary inquiry will also be under way to review possible political responsibilities, so that I think that everything that is necessary to identify all aspects of responsibility will be done in return and that those responsible will also be adequately punished. However, it is crucial to ensure that the guarantee is not cashed out. I also understood in this context all these recommendations, which were made both on the Committee and this recommendation, which is then crucial, which was then also adopted on the Committee. This is a recommendation that the Government, in the framework of its competences, obtain information on the planned business outcome of HSE and TES for the next five years in view of the investment of TES 6 and information on the planned risk management measures in connection with the investment in Block 6 of the TES d.o.o. and HSE d.o.o. In short, it is crucial to ensure that the operation of TEŠ d.o.o. and HSE d.o.o. in the next period does not result in the possibility of the redemption of guarantees. On the basis of these recommendations, the Government has already sent a request to prepare this plan for the next five years. We set a deadline for January 15th. We expect to have this plan by this time, and then the government will report on it. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u128	Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you, Minister, for these explanations. I would just like to point out that the government has been imposing similar conclusions for two years. However, it is necessary to know that the Ministry responsible for managing or monitoring this investment is the same at all times, and this is the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. Is that how we Members should trust the Minister now? I may believe the Minister, but I find it difficult for officials who have been monitoring this investment all the time; whereas the previous government, which I have stated nicely in chronology, I think it has committed at least three times to assessing the situation for the next five years and to preparing scenarios for the next five years; whereas the previous government has even committed itself to setting up a commission to which it will invite a renowned international institution to assist in this five-year scenario. So all these conclusions that the Government has already adopted in the past have not been realized. This recommendation, which was adopted at the end of the committee practically outside the scope of this point, I do not think it was quite sufficient, since all of you now find that all of these recommendations that have been proposed would be accepted, especially because at least this first part of which we have talked about is not only recommended, but, given that the National Assembly has adopted this law, we also have the right to request the Government to set a deadline and ask the Government to do so. Therefore, in view of all the experience gained so far with the recommendations made by the Government and also with the conclusions adopted by the Government itself in this direction, but no one has yet come true, it would be only reasonable, given your discussions today, to need this and that a clear commitment would be needed to avoid a strange situation, when these proposals were on the table, and it would be only possible to agree on the deadlines for the implementation of these decisions. For the experience so far with the implementation of the decisions made by the Government is not very good. I hope, therefore, that we may come up with an even more binding solution in the discussion that may put a deadline on this new government, although, as you say, we trust everyone, but, as I said, for two years, the Government is imposing the same conclusions on it that it must prepare a scenario for the next five years for all these companies, for which it is the 100 per cent owner, for which the state will be responsible, and not least the budget, but also the taxpayers. I therefore expect that, at the end of this Decision, we may add a deadline for implementation to this Decision, because so far this has been the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u130	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor, SDS. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will also focus on our recommendations to the government in the investment for Block 6. Personally as a Member, I am often disappointed in this first term of office when the Government does not follow our recommendations. Certainly, the Valley of Shale has been spoken many times in this mandate, of course after two wages. For the first time after the third development of the axis that this valley wants, but there is no hearing for it; on the other hand, Block 6. Surely, I am sure that in these two segments, the people of this valley are both disappointed over the development axis, also disappointed over the bloc, because we have been talking about it for so many years, and about the investment that probably went down. I'm sure he's very happy about this – even today's debates, when you don't hear us from the right, you don't understand – the energy lobby, but he's happy about it. I am sure that we have a very strong energy lobby in Slovenia, which, if possible, would probably have mastered another country in this area. But this goes to bad Slovenia and also to citizens and citizens. Yesterday we were talking about volunteering. It would be interesting to calculate how much this energy lobby takes us paid traineeships a month. It therefore grieves me very much today that we do not hear each other and that the Government does not want to follow our recommendations, which certainly go in the direction of the future of this project. If we don't hear it this way, it's likely that the commission of inquiry will be in vain and we'll probably listen to the following story in the future: the commission of inquiry failed, those who have caught them in business, will probably have to pay them some more compensation and the HSE in red numbers. I would therefore sincerely urge everyone in this Chamber, as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that our recommendations, which have been carefully prepared, be supported today by the vote and that the Government also take them into account in its conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u132	Mr Franc Jurša, DeSUS, has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u133	President, thank you for your word. This story of TES 6, we would say, has a beard that is longer than all the three good men we meet in December and come to our youngest. If we take a look, but I do not want to repeat in fact those matters that have been presented behind this panel of speakers, which have also been said more or less in the debate between Members and Members. For this would mean that we are repeating ourselves and that I speak because I want to perform and repeat the numbers and dates that have already been spoken many times in this Chamber. However, given that I have been in this Chamber relatively for quite some time, not to say for a long time, I remember all these possible discussions. Today we ask each other who is politically responsible. On the one hand, they say that this party, on the other hand, says that it is the party of all who are and who have been in power that we have some political responsibility, and this does not mean that I, who has sat in these benches, discussed this matter, have some material responsibility to the project. [[…]] Those who signed the contracts have the greatest responsibility and, of course, those who will also have to tell taxpayers how they actually led the process, how they carried out the project and why this project with EUR 588 million for 500 megawatts was adopted at the time, since this was part of the development plan of the Šostanj Termo Power Plant 11. 6. How this project, with these 588 million, has now risen to a billion 430 or what this project is at this level. We have accepted some recommendations, conclusions and conclusions from the Government and the National Assembly. For that guarantee of €440 million, which we accepted in the National Assembly, I think it was too late at the time to stop the project, because, in my opinion, it would have done a substantial amount of damage than it did to continue the project. I recently spoke to the first unionist in this area; not just me, but my parliamentary group, where the gentleman said so from the occasion. In Slovenia we have almost 100% assurance that we have electricity for 50 years ahead and I was somehow satisfied. Of course, with this project because of its height, I cannot – of course not – be satisfied. He also said that in some of the worse situations we have to import up to 10% of electricity. This does not mean that the price of this energy is also changing. But if we had to import 13% of the energy, that means that the electricity, I'm talking about electricity, is drastically irritable. This means that it is crucial that we provide sufficient electricity in Slovenia, but also partly from renewable sources, of course not only from this. But I understand the Valley of jest. They never complained, nor did they complain about environmental pollution, because it was important that miners, as well as those employed in the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant, receive adequate salaries and thus ensure social security in the Shaleska Valley.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u134	Mr Tomaž Lisec, SDS, has the floor to prepare a representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! First, allow me to comment on the recommendations and then on the Committee's decision, i.e. on the meeting of the National Assembly, and then allow me to comment on a few other issues that have arisen today during the debate and which I think it is right for me to express my position. I have a feeling that when we are or are discussing today that a lot of people have not read the recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and unfortunately not even this sceptical decision that they have drawn from the coalition themselves on the home labour body. I think that any government that really wants to approach resolution should support such conclusions when the National Assembly recommends that within 15 days we take some more time, no problem, no better answer than a bad answer or no answer. In the SDS Group, we requested a written report on the status of the project TES 6. Minister, you have said today that by the end of January something is being prepared and that something will be done in this direction. We then requested or proposed that information be obtained regarding the acceptance or approval of the NIP 6. The project, which is not only the National Assembly, but the entire Slovenian energy sector, not only the one that has been attached to HES, but the entire Slovenian energy sector has been waiting for almost 9 months. Then we wanted to obtain information on the fulfilment of the investment framework of the guarantee contract, in particular as regards the value of the investment and the price of coal. Two key issues in this project. The closer we get to the completion of this project, the less answers we get. But we are getting more and more questions. We will probably ask ourselves, somewhere in 2020, what was the actual value of the investment, and there are different information on the price of coal: from those advocated by the Velenje Coal Manager to those referred to by the thermal power plant, to those who were calculated by the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, to those who did not know what coal price from Velenje Coal was right. In short, Minister, I think these are two key points where your responsibility will also be integrated into this mosaic of responsibility or irresponsibility regarding the TES 6 project, which has more than a decade of history. I think it would be appropriate for the Minister, despite the fact that the decision has not been voted on or has been slightly recast, to provide us with information on the planned business outcome of HSE and TES 6, although I think that this is one of the top tasks, because I think that, as has been the case in the past, this information, which will reach the Minister, will be based on information from various sources. Each of those who want to have their information or want to give it will have their own thought, what information to give, how much to give it, and how to combine their guilt with someone else. This is also a key issue of this project. The whole project has been based primarily on completely wrong assumptions since 2009, but since 2009, we have been at that point when I think we can still decide what the project is going to be, and unfortunately we can only wait for what will be the result of this project. Moreover, I think we have talked too little today about the two conclusions or recommendations that we wanted to propose, and this is that the National Assembly is asking the Commission to prevent corruption to report to it on the irregularities found and corruption cases in the event of an investment in Block 6. The few who spoke about this corruption today, however, did not wish to open their members at the meeting of the home working body of this decision. I think that a very correct proposal has recommended that the Commission also tackle this problem in order to prevent corruption. I think that the Commission of Inquiry within the National Assembly, which will address this subject, would be pleased with these recommendations; even more so. I think that the next decision that we have proposed to ask the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering is to report the suspected money laundering in the case of investments in Block 6 and this decision has not been adopted again. Then we have in a safe some Slovenian individual who is involved in this story – we get a story when they find themselves in vaults a million amounts of unexplained origin and, for the time being, it's probably not bad for the gentleman, because he's sitting somewhere, but he probably should be sitting for a lot worse. In short, I think that the recommendations were very well-intentioned, but I was disturbed when the coalition Members came with their proposal, but that the Infrastructure Committee recommends to the Government that it obtain information, information, information, without deadline. That's that gold Mecca I keep saying to the officials. If you don't have a hand, why would you do it today, and we'll work another week, and another month, and another year. Unfortunately, these officials at the Ministry will probably, despite the request of the competent minister, say exactly what needs to be found, whether they are not competent or not to receive information, or whether they will receive so much information that they do not even know which information is correct. I also think that today's debate on who is to blame, who is not to blame, has been listed since 2002 – we know who was having fun in the field of energy in Slovenia at the time, who fully controlled the late President of the Republic with the idea of TEM 6, how this project TES 6, which were prices in 2004, 2005 and in the years to come, was the price of electricity. I think that, despite my personal opinion that coal burning is not only economically not acceptable, but above all environmentally unacceptable, I think that in 2004, 2005, when this thing was happening and when the whole of Europe was dealing with this or, above all, individual countries, what their energy policy wants was to be the original price, that is, close to 700 million TEŠ 6 projects and given the price of electricity on global markets, in particular in European markets, a rather meaningful project. In 2009, this kind of calm curve of this project got some kind of accelerated story and now we are where we are. Over the course of the night, from a billion 300 and a few million more added and we are at a billion 400 and a few million more, and no one has the courage to say out loud what the final price of this project will be. I recall, Mr Minister, asking your predecessor if you were hoping for a thumb, but perhaps through some professional basis to provide the National Assembly with what the final price of this project would be in the new projects of this project, and he did not hope to miss any figures. I believe that you, too, find it difficult to judge this number, but even if you do say it, they will probably still have their mathematics somewhere in the back, where some euro can be obtained from this project or a million dollars can be obtained from this matter. What I miss about the entire TES 6 project is that we did not get any specific information about the head of the company that produces this investment or if someone asked them directly how much we could build the project and how much time we could build it for. Just look at the comparison of the construction of thermal buildings in Europe, what is the price, what is the strength of this project, and you can clearly see that we have exceeded the number in my opinion at least twice. So with those almost 700 million, this two-timer that we have now thrown into this project could throw in something much smarter, even in the field of Slovenian energy, but not that we are doing business today, or that we will be doing research the next few years, who is to blame, how guilty he is, how guilty he is, and so on. In short, I think this project is the project where Murphy's legislation is absolutely applicable. If something goes wrong with TES 6, everything went wrong after 2009. Unfortunately, today we are more concerned with the content of this project than we are with who is to blame, who is not to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who has to hide information, who has not to hide information to. The saddest part is that in the history of the National Assembly, conclusions were proposed, confirmed, and proposed conclusions by the Government themselves, but suggested conclusions, and then there was no follow-up to either the deadlines of these conclusions or no complete information was given. Sometimes I also feel that we don't even know who owns TES or who owns the Velenje Coal Mine, or who owns the HSE. When necessary, we say that HSE is another story. Members should not deal with it once, the government once says that they cannot deal with it, but I think we all know who is the 100 % owner of HSE, who sometimes, too often or if necessary, raises his hands and is therefore, as I have said, more unknown at the end of this project than the answers. He will, mate Matjaž is nervous. We know that in SD, sometimes they're nervous when we're talking mostly about a joke lobby. Fortunately, one Member, who was a great advocate in the previous term, even said he was a lobbyist of this project, is not here, but still probably locally holding scissors and canvas, so I believe that because of such and other lobbying in the field of local self-government or those municipalities, we still have many unknowns in this project. Unfortunately, this project will do great damage not only to the Slovenian economy, but mainly to Slovenian energy in the future. If we just take a quick look at the comparison, for example, to make TES 6 for 700, 800 million, let's say we end up at a billion and a half, that 750, 800 million — what did we get out of it? The bottom Sava cost less than a billion dollars, and there's a scream and a scream that we've spent. Middle Savi's talking about a billion and a half, maximum of 2 billion, but that money won't be because we burned it in TES. Those rare individuals who think about the 2nd block of nuclear power plant probably can't imagine where they'll get the money from, because we've burned everything in this bottomless Scottish pit. We don't even know about the future of Velenje Coal Mine – it will be bad, I think. I think it will also be a bad future for HSE. According to my data in the last year, if we had no other pillar of State aid, the HSE story would have been completed. In short – not to be too long to be too nervous – I think if the Butals didn't have their monuments, we Slovenians have their butal monument, and it's called TES 6. And we smoke not only coal in this block every day, but also tax money, because according to electricity prices in European markets, every year we will have a headache when we go to the loss of 50 and probably millions more euros, and on the other hand we Members will argue in the National Assembly whether we would give a million here or put a million there. However, 50 million will be easily burned in TES 6 each year, and we will continue to deal with who is to blame for the fact that our Butal Block 6 is standing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u136	The text is by the proposer, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you for saying that again. At the end of this debate, I note that it was useful, because I think that, through the debate, it has shown that these recommendations that we have prepared for the parental committee would be appropriate. All of you have noted that we are missing most of the information that has been included in these recommendations. Therefore, this recommendation correctly notes that nothing that has been adopted in the past in both the National Assembly and the Government has been practically not met. It is also not known whether TES reports on implementation under the guarantee contract, at least from today's debate and also from the Minister's replies, this was not clear. However, it is interesting that, despite everything, I would say, problems, situations within HSE and TES, as well as articles that appear, both the EBRD and the EIB are not really nervous, if I say so. This means that there may also be some other thing that will eventually lead to the guarantee being left alone and not cashed. As I said, the debate was correct. Most of the panellists noted that this lack of information is acute in the National Assembly. I am therefore saddened by the fact that, when there was a possibility on the parent committee, you did not accept these recommendations, which we have prepared, which are also helping both the Ministry and the Government to take further action to manage this project at the thermal power plant, Block 6. It was also interesting that in some ways you found that the possibility of stopping this project was at a turning point from 2008 to 2009, when the key contracts had not yet been signed and implementation was still in the initial stage. In fact, in 2012, when the guarantee contract was on the table, this was still the cheapest option for that country, as in the case of the acquisition of loans by the parent companies, HSE or TES would in any event have passed to the country due to the 100 % ownership of the State. Of course, in that case the loan would be significantly worse, both at interest rate and at hand. So I must say that we will not oppose this recommendation, which was later adopted. I'm sorry our conclusions weren't adopted. But I look forward to, I would say, the findings and actions of the commission of inquiry, and I hope that Members will then take a closer look at the materials they receive on the table and will also take more account of certain recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u138	All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal, Mr Daniel Krivec, and the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšič, please apply with a raise of time. They will receive the last word, first the representative of the Government and then the proposer. So, based on that, I'm asking you to apply. Each debater has five minutes of time available. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u139	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! In my debate, I will first respond to the debate by my colleague Logar. Before, in fact, he had somehow misinterpreted that today's debate was based on a coalition agreement. That's actually not true. This debate today referred to the initiative or request of the SDS Group. In this place, I must refer once again to the words of Jani Möderndorfer, which have been fully justified. This part of today's debate is kind of perverse, because the SDS makes some recommendations, what information should I get – but when we all know that the SDS has run this project to the greatest extent during the time of its governments – and what information is not known today. It is also not too difficult to establish that the President or Director of HSE is also your longtime member and can tell you firsthand how and what is going on, what will need to be done. Thus, in this part these information requirements are totally unnecessary. Our colleague Logar has also told us that we are not interested in information, but of course this impression is completely depressed. He was not at that meeting of the working body where all these stakeholders, directors, representatives of the government, were there, but they were all there, and they could be asked. You, too, Comrade Krivec, had them all, I think seven, eight of them were sitting there, which you had to ask, you might ask. Why should we make a special decision to have them answer us in writing when we had them on the other side of the table? You see, this debate is today a diversion. What we needed information about TES, we asked the guests and received this information. But what they couldn't give us, and then we invited them into that special decision. Today you have heard the Minister where this answer is or when it can be expected. I would like to respond further, my colleague Podkoršek said that the Government does not want to listen to these recommendations. The government, Mr Minister explained, will respond to the decision that was transmitted and the other recommendations are not, it is said, to those recommendations adopted by the Committee and those not adopted by the Committee, proposed by the SDS, and we received all the answers on the committee because we had invited guests against us and asked them on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u140	There's no replica. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u141	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate is another kind of debate that we had about TES 6. Now I think there will soon be no more productive debate about what happened. We know that; millions have been stolen and that is a fact. It's only a matter of time, or the things we have to follow, if they're responsible for this theft. The key question that this Parliament must ask itself is what to do with this investment in the future. According to current calculations, the 6th block is expected to produce 50 million euros in losses each year. Who will cover this loss, and in what way? Probably taxpayers or users over checkpoints, and that cost will be quite high. Regarding TER 6, we should have asked at least three questions a long time ago that have not been asked by policy. The first question is: Why not rebuild the block 4 and 5, why the new building 6? My answer is probably because new investments make it easier to put in your pocket. Second thing. Why was this investment greatly undervalued at first, and then this price just rose? A classic example of enforcement policy, first you say the price is going to be extremely low, everyone is excited, the project starts, and then the thing doesn't stop. The key thing, where I actually see some conspiracy theory, is why it's been deceiving itself all along with the price of coal. I remember, in the previous term, I think that the only New Slovenia Group was so solid that it simply refused those pressures when blackmailing itself with a guarantee and when they also lied about the price of coal, when we knew clearly that such a price of coal could not be secured. And now the key part of the story in all TES is that because TES will produce deep downs, millions of minuses in the future, politics will again be put before a new fact, before a new fact is implemented. That's when the story will be a little reversed. But they will say, yes, you know that making this story more profitable requires cheaper coal. Yeah! Where are we gonna get this coal? We'll import it from Indonesia. Great! That's great! Here again some have found a gold pit because the commission to import coal for only one ship is such that someone can ensure a nice life for several generations at the same time. So I hope to say that the stories there were very well thought out, carefully completed. Those things that were presented to us, how this sixth block would ensure stability and one third of electricity, was a thing that made it easier for the ignorant Members to convince because the fact is that a similar capacity could also be provided with the renewal of the four and five, but it didn't happen, but it is. And I now predict that I hope there will be so much will at that time that we will not once again support certain facts that have been carried out that will help some to be rich. However, I would point out only one example, which seems unusual to many, but he is very talkative, especially for those debaters who talk about investment being so far away, there is no going back. All you have to do is answer the question, once again, who's going to make that difference and cover that deficit. Remember the story of Austria, which, I think, built a nuclear power plant entirely in the 1970s and 1980s, and not just dedicated a billion four hundred to it, but close to three billion of the current euro. They shut it down nicely and today they have a museum and a monument — but such a political decision has taken place. All I'm saying is that we're going to have to think very carefully about what to do with this investment in the future, because the debate on who did it didn't help us to make 50 million a year. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u142	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thanks again for saying that. Comrade Zorčič, you are talking about how colleague Anže Logar spoke about your coalition contract, but in coalition you are talking about the need to monitor this project in particular and also take certain measures in this regard. That's what he was talking about, and that's what the coalition contract says. You're talking about this request of ours being perverted. I don't know who gives you this right to think about it, because I can see that it's the SMC's wish, that nothing is discussed anymore, and that nothing is being asked. I guess that's where you want to go. And, I don't know what you're talking about: it says about some members whenever they talk about someone, it's good that they're there, but otherwise they need to be very specific. [[…]] Such insinuations are not, I would say, worthy of a member of the National Assembly who speaks of falsification. You're saying that we ran the project the most, maybe we'll figure that out later, but that's your assessment. Once again, we have spoken and our recommendations have spoken since the guarantee was accepted – and this has also been discussed throughout the Committee. It is very interesting that you note that you have received all the answers, and today all your Members find in the debate that they do not have this information, as well as the rest of the coalition and the opposition. I don't know if the president's been on this committee the whole time. I don't know how you got your written status report on Project TES 6, I don't have it. How you received information about the acceptance or approval of NIP 6 – only the transfer was made to the board by the directors. And you also note that NIP 6 has not yet been adopted, although the Government says that the NIP 6 final link will be adopted by the end of October 2014. Now we're in December and you don't care why NIP 6 isn't accepted, but you've got all the information. Very interesting. Information also on the fulfilment of the investment framework under the guarantee contract, in particular as regards the value of the investment and the price of coal. No one responded to why the investment was irritable and why the price of coal was rising. We didn't get any answers on the board. And you're hoping to claim that we've got all the answers! Furthermore, information on the planned business outcome of HSE and TES for the next five years, the Director's reply was that they had not yet completed the final report for the current year, so they cannot make any estimates for five years. We have not talked about the final report, we have talked about preparing scenarios for five years, as you all warn that some measures should be taken in the event of an unfavourable scenario. And you are now telling all Members and Slovenia that we have obtained this information on the committee. Catastrophe! All the other recommendations that we have made in good faith are that the Government also receives some instruments in the amended legislation, particularly in those bodies that have found that legislation does not allow them any greater supervisory function; from the Court of Auditors, to the KPK and others. All of these recommendations – and you say that everything was answered on this committee, even the Government notes that it would be wise to accept these recommendations. I must say that I did not intend to advertise again, but that the chairman of the home committee, so flatly and so with his left hand, waved over the uninformedness of both the members of the home committee and the National Assembly, in my opinion, is unacceptable and is deceiving the entire National Assembly in practice. Clearly, the desire that the National Assembly and Members are not properly informed about this project has prevailed again; and once again, it is true that the Commission of Inquiry will be set up, indeed it will find out, but it will identify things that are related back and our recommendations have gone in the direction of avoiding a negative scenario that may happen. And you didn't even listen to it on the board. It is clear that we cannot repeat these decisions at the plenary session now because they have been rejected by the Committee, but it is unacceptable that the Chairman of the Committee will allow himself to speak on behalf of all Members that we have received all the information. No specific information has been provided on this committee! You can all look at the magnetograms. That is why it is even more sad that you do not endorse recommendations that would give you some behavior and some information about the direction that this project is heading.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u144	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposals for recommendations has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the third session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5 p.m. and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u145	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Penal Code. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Fellow Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! We are concerned about the current situation in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The geopolitical situation has changed dramatically in one year, no one would have thought what would happen a year ago in Ukraine, what would be the situation today with the Ebola, and above all no one thought what would happen in Syria and Iraq. Terrorism, as we knew in 2001 after 9/11, has changed significantly in terms of some unique events, such as bombings, kidnappings and so on. We have an Islamic State, which is not a state that does not have its own official army, and therefore, under the Penal Code, as serving in a foreign army cannot be persecuted, which currently represents one of the greatest threats. I am confident that this Islamic State, which has been declared a terrorist organisation by the United Nations Security Council, will be supported by all countries, including Russia, as I have said, and will be defeated by the military. The problem will arise – there are currently more than 3 000 fighters coming from Europe, gathering most in Vienna, then taking this path either directly to Istanbul or through the territory of Slovenia to Bosnia, where they are further trained both in theoretical and practical knowledge – once they come back. When it's over, you can just say, guys, girls, here we're done, go back to Europe and the skills you've acquired here, just use in your countries. We know the cases, one of the Slovenians fell, two of them fought there, they came back, they did their housework, they did nothing. In the past, Sova has prevented a terrorist act when one of the foreign citizens tried to blow up a full tank of oil, but they prevented it, and unfortunately they had no leverage to pursue it. We have Article 108 and 111 of the Penal Code, which states — I believe — that these people could be persecuted. That's what the prosecution says, that's what the ministry says, and on the other hand, the chief of police, Mr Funk, says that they have no leverage and that with the current legislation, they have no tangible issues on which, or on the basis of which, we could prosecute this matter. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared a new amendment to the Penal Code with a new 111, which incriminates the actions of the United Nations Resolution 2178, since the imposition and recruitment of the current Penal Code are not defined. By proposing this, we are giving the law enforcement authorities the opportunity to prosecute those people who pose a serious threat to Slovenian national security and to Slovenian citizens as well. I'm asking for your support. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u147	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today's debate, which took place under the proposed article to supplement the Penal Code, certainly expresses the concern and condemnation of such acts of terrorism in the international space. I don't think there's any doubt about that. That is why I think we need to look particularly closely at the existing provisions contained in the Penal Code. The proposed article at the time of a careful review, a substantive review that we have already carried out, already contains all those things that are included in the Code of Penalties. Therefore, the proposed content is already contained in the Penal Code in individual articles, both in specific work and in general work, so that there is no particular need to supplement this with the proposed article. We therefore do not believe that additional incrimination is necessary to ensure that the regulation we have so far is entirely appropriate in terms of content and scope. Once again, we would like to point out that prosecution requires both suspicion and evidence, and this appropriate evidence, which gives the prosecutor the opportunity to initiate proceedings further, that is to say that he is investing and deciding to press charges against a particular person: and beyond that, we cannot. We believe that the Penal Code regulates this area sufficiently, so that the proposal, as proposed in Article 11a, is not necessary and we will therefore not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u149	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. We will vote in our Group of Members, as we say, according to our own judgment; that is, everyone as he thinks is right. As far as I'm concerned, of course I'll support this proposal. Not because I would feel that this proposal is very good or very bad, but simply as a warning to the government that something must be done in this area. Today's debate – and I hope my colleagues too – has further convinced me that this is the case. Among other things, we have been able to hear that these two mentioned, which were proven in Syria and Iraq, who were actually members of this most horrendous terrorist organization in the world at this time – whether they were nurses, chefs or, as someone said here today, were cutting heads; they were there, they came back to Slovenia, some predictive procedures were carried out, and after these procedures the matter was simply stopped because, under our legislation, there was no way to do anything more – and we are still hearing that this legislation is sufficient! Of course, we also hear a lot about high legal standards and human rights, which I think is right on the one hand. On the other hand, in Italy, anti-terrorist legislation relied on the anti-mafia legislation previously adopted, and it certainly was not designed to protect the human rights of mafias, but those who had been violated by this mafia of human rights, and the same or the same is true in this anti-terrorist legislation. I am sure that these Slovenians who came from Syria, Italian, Austrian or German nationals, would have been tried long ago to be in court and probably already in prison. I'm gonna repeat what I said today. I hope that we do not wait for any terrorist event with great material damage and casualties, and then panic for a quick, nightly, nose-to-nose change or take action, change legislation, and certainly in any way violate human rights in one broad sense, because otherwise it will not be possible at that time. So my "yes", I hope that even one of my fellow Members from the parliamentary group will be as a warning to the government that he will finally do something in this area. Not tomorrow, but today and now!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u151	Can we get to the vote? In my own name. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Of course, marriage has to be supported, and there are many reasons for that. Despite what we listened to on the other side, there are some facts. The Director-General of Police said they couldn't do anything. He said that. Certain political groups here in the National Assembly think so. Politically. But he's bound to the law and he can't work. That's what he said. Second. Our Slovenian citizens – three, four, I don't know how many came back – were there. It doesn't matter what they're doing right now. It doesn't matter. They could cook, they could tie the wounds, but they could cut their heads. They were in some terrorist organization. They came back to Slovenia and Slovenian police conducted house investigations there. Now what? Nothing. It's over. The matter is over and no one will convince me, of course I will vote in favour, because what the SMC representative said is a lie. That's not true. And one thing is true, if the coalition's leading group had a serious desire to remedy this, then the law could be allowed to go to another reading by voting in favour. And in the second reading, it might fix something. As long as the first man of the Slovenian Police says, "I can't act," people who have been in this organization walk through Slovenia, whatever they have been doing there, it is alarming that this law would not receive support. In short, the law has to be upheld. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u153	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal. I'll back him up for a number of reasons. For the first time, because in this letter prepared by the Government for the National Assembly as its opinion on the three pages, I must say that those who have truly read the whole of it will find that in reality they do not define anything, but are always considering only the proposal tabled by the SDS; in the end, just in the end, look, there is so much text, it tells you what they think about it. In the debate that has taken place today, we have in fact received absolutely no serious assurance that we can act under existing legislation. If we could at least identify ourselves to the existing proposals, we would not be able to do that. But I have heard a lot of words in which you have unfortunately not convinced me when someone is discussing and saying, "We think we can; we think we can; we believe that we can." Look, this is no way to make decisions and adopt serious legislation. And until you convince your own government to give you one more argument to defend them with, today I have not seen this defence seriously, of course I cannot support such your belief that it can be done under existing legislation. I agree with my predecessor if the government were to take this proposal seriously, given that you will read it at the end of the day, then you could see that it is also possible to correct it further; nor was this willingness of honesty. I hope there's no unfortunate situation, because then some will be embarrassed to sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u155	Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll support the proposal. I think it is good that this bill goes into further consideration so that we may improve it and adopt it. I missed the Minister for Foreign Affairs here today, although the Penal Code is not in his jurisdiction. Perhaps there is more to tell us that we would be better aware – and I am aware – that Security Council Resolution 2178, adopted unanimously on 24 September, is also binding on Slovenia. Declaration 60 of the partners, signed on 3 December, is also binding on Slovenia as a member of the international community. That's not a Larifari. And if it's true that we already have all the provisions in the Penal Code today, so that I can, in my own words, hunt down foreign warriors, then someone doesn't implement this Penal Code and has to be suspended tomorrow. Tomorrow the government can hold a written session and after this discussion – I hope the government has listened to something – must sanction and suspend someone. I will support this proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u157	Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you, President. I will vote in favour of this proposal myself. I will vote in favour because, despite hearing that this should already exist in the debate, the practice shows quite different. On the one hand, we have a prosecutor's office saying we don't need all this incriminating, on the other hand, we have a police force that says we can't prosecute it. And if anything, I think we rightly expect them to sit down with the Ministry, on one side Bell Fisher, on the other side of Funk, and find out who was cheating on who was right. Then either Funk or Fisher pack up the suitcase and leave your position. I think that would be the only right thing to do, and also the right thing to do. If we already have here clearly as in the law on the seizure of illegally acquired property – we have a law that is not being implemented, or so far I have only seen one seizure in the media. If so, then we have ineffective organs and we need something else again. Look, if there are no changes within one month, we will go to see a magnetogram – because today was primarily a legal problem, how we put the commas, how we formulated some things – we will correct this proposal in your comments and we will file it again. Then there will be no more reasons or excuses if it is legally more correctly written to vote against. And given the situation that the world is in right now, what happened in Sydney on Monday, don't be naive. We do not appreciate security as long as we have it; once security is lost, it is too late. However, I am pleased to see today's session that at least we have seen who in this national assembly is responsible for the security of citizens and citizens – SDS, NSI and the Alliance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u159	Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u160	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against today's law. On the one hand, I am convinced that the law is incomplete, nomotechnically incorrect and that such refinements are needed in order to make it completely pointless now to be put into further consideration and then to be amended; something completely different would have arisen. My colleague Jean Mahnic said they'd fix the case and file it again. I fully agree with this, but before that you have to do something else that is missing from today's bill, it's an analysis of the situation; whether we need it or not. We've heard a lot of debate today. Mr. Funk says so, Attorney General Mirko Gardener says otherwise. These opinions need to be addressed, whether things need to be changed now or not. But today I am sure that we do not have on the table such a proposal for a law that it would be useful to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u161	I'm asking you to sign up for an explanation of your vote. The explanation for the vote is mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you, President. When I listen to the opinions or explanations of the votes of the coalition Members, I wonder if we are not on a comedy of confusion. Today we're talking about first reading. This is, for those new Members – well, I am only 10 days older than you – the stage when a proposal is adopted for consideration so that we can complete it through parliamentary procedures. I support the proposal tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Those who sat in this room during the debate could listen to our positions, where we said ourselves that we are aware of the shortcomings of this law in some parts, but that is why we have a regular procedure and all three readings so that we can make the most quality laws. And those who may vote against it today and then will once in the future – let us hope that they do not – must know that today’s vote assumes an important part of the responsibility for this decision. I think that the debate on security in this National Assembly must be inherent for all of us here, not related to coalition or opposition. And in the case of the legal basis for preventing such criminal acts, I think that in the modern world we should not be questioned at all. I will support this law myself, and I also expect all thinking people, i.e. those who want to be informed, to do the same and vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u163	Mrs Ksenija Krenjak Kramar has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm just going to relate to Mr. Gorenak's claims. If we looked at the contents of this proposal, as I have looked at it, through every paragraph of it, we would see that exactly what you have proposed contains individual articles of a specific work. This is precisely why it is a substantive question whether what you are proposing is already included in existing provisions. And the simple answer is yes. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm talking to everyone; let me finish. Well, it's not about anything. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u165	Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u166	It is not a lie at all, but simply a matter of looking at and comparing existing provisions. That's what this is all about. And when we look at it, we see that no additional incrimination is necessary because we already have it. The answer is simple and that is a fact. The Penal Code should only be opened and the General and Special Part should be examined, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u167	How will you vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u168	I will vote against it, as I have already said.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u169	One was an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members, and I agree with that; the other is in its own name and must include this part. Now that part is perfect. Explanation [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural – Who? Mr. Jean-Mahnich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, President. Although the Slovenian Democratic Party has repeatedly warned you that this was not an explanation for the vote, but that it was a controversy – Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar addressed Mr Gorenak directly – I suggest that you, Mr President, hand over Mrs Kramarjev another Rules of Procedure for the National Assembly to read it if possible at the beginning when she became a Member, she did not receive it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u171	Mr Mag has an explanation for the vote. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u172	The message coming from here today is important. I have a feeling in some of the people you've explained to me that you've overlooked the fact that it's your first reading. In the first reading, we decide whether we need any law at all; not whether it is something in the first or second paragraph, which was one of the key comments that the Government representative had, to which you then supported your discussions. And when it comes to whether we need this law, I firmly believe that the answer is more than clear — how much we need it, for freedom has no price. Freedom is something that is not given, and democracy is not something that is given forever. It's something that has to be fought again and again. And what is happening today in Syria and Iraq is an indescribable crime that has not been compared to it in recent decades. For example, it was yesterday that she rounded up her conscience that 150 women were killed there all of a sudden just because they refused to be members of the so-called ISIS fighters. Before that, children were killed. Before that, people were buried alive. And whoever is involved in this, whether in the crimes themselves or in holding the stand with their participation in this organization, should be responsible; in the name of freedom, for freedom means respect for the fellow human being. Freedom means respect for the good of life as the highest value. Freedom means respect for the opposite sex; a woman there is worthless. I don't know how we can deny it this way. You're all saying that all of this is already regulated by existing laws. Then why are these laws not being implemented? When the ISIS is defeated there, the thing will slam back here, and then it'll be too late. That is why we need to act here and now. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u173	Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u174	Yes, thank you. I don't know if you're aware of at least the functions you perform in this case. The security of citizens and citizens of Slovenia is something that should probably have a high priority. I think your colleagues have explained to you the legislative procedure, which means first reading, second reading and third reading. Those who have counter-arguments, I am sure that if you have this responsibility, we can somehow conclude these proposals, we will listen, we can correct this law or the draft amendment to this article. Be aware, however, that people who have once been in these units are permanently damaged by many psychiatrists or psychologists. They have a permanently damaged value system, they represent time bombs. As history has shown, these time bombs usually strike where no one ever expects. Similar things happened in America after the famous 11th of September, 2,000 996 people died because somehow people didn't listen to all those threats that informants were saying. It was similar in Paris, Sydney, and so on. The security of citizens must come first. If, in the first hundred days of this government, you have not taken any reform measures that will be known in some welfare of citizens and citizens, believe me that at least in this case, to give a "yes" vote for change, for the safety of citizens, will be what you can do, at least a little before these Christmas holidays. I warn you, then, if it happens, you take a lot of responsibility. I don't know what you're going to do if there's some sort of trial, if a bomb hits here in Maximarket, in kindergartens, what you're going to do, what you're going to say, what you're going to play for the prosecutors, and so on. Once again, I warn you that we will let this draft go through the first reading and that we will somehow find a common path in the second reading and make one acceptable article that will also be kind to you. I will, of course, vote in favour, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u175	Okay. I think we'll have another list, so I'm asking you to sign in. Dr. Jasna Murgel has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Today there are a little more of you than when I made my point on this matter. We don't need to discuss this law. I read an article by the Deputy State Prosecutor; gentlemen who is the state prosecutor – saint, Mirko Vratčnik, 8. 12. 2014 on which I base my justification for my vote. This gentleman found in his article a few days ago, in his debate at an international conference, that after considering the resolution, he noted that new incriminations on terrorism and the phenomenon of foreign fighters in Slovenia were not necessary. In particular, he explained the phenomenon of foreign fighters and said that it was five Slovenian citizens who went to fight in Syria and then four returned, and one was supposed to fall into battle in Syria. He said, quote: "The Slovenian authorities have no evidence that these Slovenian citizens would be associated with a single terrorist group that is active in Syria, nor would they commit crimes there." If there's no evidence, there can't be a charge. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u177	I ask for peace in the hall, don't ask without [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u178	You're just going to solve this in a specific procedure. Those who decide in criminal proceedings will read the law again; those who decide whether there is a reasonable doubt as to whether a crime has been committed are the prosecutor. Here I will justify my vote in the opinion of the Deputy Chief Prosecutor of State, i.e. certainly a competent person to judge in this matter. I will vote against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u179	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we turn to a vote on the decision, which reads: The proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 28 votes against, 53 votes against. (For the vote was 28.)(against 53.) I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a fiscal rule law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a fiscal rule law is suitable for further consideration. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 148(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be adopted if at least two thirds of all Members vote for it, i.e. 60 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President, my colleagues and my colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a fiscal rule law and, of course, we will also support it. The reasons have been repeatedly said and the fundamental reason is that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we want to operate in accordance with the Constitution and take decisions that are in accordance with the Constitution. As the fiscal rule law was not adopted until 30 November 2013, the State of Slovenia has been in a state of non-constitutional status for more than one year. In other words, the President of the Government and all ministers who have sworn to act in accordance with the Constitution do not actually act in accordance with the Constitution, because they have not been adopted and because a fiscal rule is not implemented in Slovenia. This is why we have again proposed this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is not only legal but also substantive. With the fiscal rule, we want the revenue and expenditure in national budgets and in budgetary users to be harmonised; without any debt. Only in this way does it enable us not to owe our debts, our sins to be paid by future generations, and to provide them with a better, brighter future. What's this all about? As expenditure is constantly higher in this country than revenue, the State is indebted. The country has committed from 2008 to this year for 22 billion and owes 30 billion. 30 billion means that we pay more than one billion dollars for interest, we pay abroad for that interest, and we give less money for education, for social, for health; in short, for future generations to have a better life in this country. And we also pay to reduce all these rights, we automatically reduce these rights. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it is necessary to end this, that citizens and citizens deserve better education, better socialism and that future generations should not be burdened by paying the interest generated on the basis of the debts of the present generation. For this reason, I propose that you support this law at first reading and, of course, we can complement the law with your proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u181	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, in our position, we have already said that New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will support the proposal for a decision in order to allow the proposal for a fiscal rule law to be further addressed. It takes 60 votes – for this decision, for this law and also for government law. Here is our thought that perhaps this decision would be supported by all together today, or at least 60 Members, in order to reach an optimal solution after the hybrid treatment of the two laws, which would be acceptable for at least two thirds of this House. We must adopt a fiscal rule law to remedy the unconstitutional situation; we may be ashamed to have such a delay in this law. We have to do something and we owe it to our citizens and citizens in this area, because if the country goes forward with such a speed of debt due to mistakes, past and present, then we write a very bad will to our children and our children's children. We will no longer stand to see the budget pay 1.2 billion and more costs to finance the current spending budget for interest. And if we just look at our immediate future, what we're looking at. We can be optimistic right now. We record positive economic growth. Of course, I wonder what our people have out of it. How many have received employment because of this economic growth, and who will give the 115 thousand 411 unemployed in the unemployment register at the end of November? Who's gonna give it a job? Colleagues and colleagues, it's time to do something for citizens and citizens. Empty debates without decisions mean nothing, not for today's generation and not for future generations. The future, as I mentioned, the near future, I'm afraid it won't be very pink. Why is economic growth? Our export markets are still in good shape right now, but the forecasts are bad. Even the German market, the German economy is unfortunately cooling down, and these can be dramatic signals for the Slovenian economy or for the budgetary inflows. We will support this conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u183	Any other explanation for the voice? An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u184	Dear Mr President, the House of Respect, thank you for your word! In the United Left, we will vote against the proposal for a fiscal rule for the following reasons. If we look at how the United States and the European Union have faced the crisis, we will find the following. In 2009 and 2010, the resolution of the crisis in Europe and the United States was very similar. On the one hand, the banks were getting rid of the budget; on the other hand, expansionary fiscal policy was trying to restart the economy. The results were similar everywhere. The economies began to recover slowly, and unemployment began to decline. Then, in mid-2011, a savings facility took place in Europe and brought Europe into a second recession — and let us look at the results today. The US already has 8% of GDP above the pre-crisis level in 2014, which is above the pre-2007 level. But in 2014, Europe is still below the pre-crisis level and there is no indication that it will soon reach it because it has caught itself simultaneously in a deflationary trap and at the same time is threatened by another third recession, as radical savings continue with the proposals we have today on the table. We have often heard from the law's proponents that fiscal rule is good because it is supposed to prevent future generations from paying off debts to us. That's not true. Debts have always been repaid in history directly with economic growth. The task of the country in the crisis is to start economic growth with economic policy, i.e. monetary and fiscal policy, and then slowly repay debts through the junction. What's a fiscal rule gonna do? The fiscal rule will make this even more difficult for us at a time when Slovenia has already lost the remittances of monetary policy it has handed over to Brussels. At the same time, it has strong deadlines in the budgetary area. We are now adopting a fiscal rule that will tighten the cord around the necks of the governments here. The fiscal rule is therefore a forced jacket that will definitively smother both the Slovenian social state and the Slovenian economy. The only question is if we can ever get out of the crisis with a fiscal rule. Therefore, in the United Left, we will clearly vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u185	Ms Urska Ban has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. In the SMC Group, we are aware that, on the basis of Article 148 of the Constitution, in which the National Assembly laid down the principle of the public financial policy of our country, it is also necessary to adopt an implementing law which requires a wider professional and political consensus. The preparation of this implementing law on fiscal rules has also been a priority for the government, which has already drawn up and introduced it into the parliamentary procedure. In our view, the European fiscal pact is sufficient, adequate and a sufficiently strict fiscal framework for the implementation of our country's fiscal policy. Why does this government proposal seem more appropriate to us? It allows for more intensive countercyclical action than this Swiss formula because it allows the middle-term fiscal target set in the deficit framework, 0.5% of GDP, and up-to-date structural surplus, which prevents the Swiss formula. This means that, within this medium-term period, we can have a minimum structural deficit of up to 0.5% of GDP and, in the medium term, as provided for in the Constitution, it is necessary to ensure that current public spending does not generate debt. It seems crucial in this respect that in good economic times, compared to the Swiss formula, it is possible to create higher public financial savings on the basis of a government proposal. According to the concept, this proposal, which we are considering today, seems unacceptable because only by setting the numerical objectives of fiscal policy, which envisions this balanced structural balance on which this law is based and is also so proposed in this law, can it severely limit the use of countercyclical fiscal policy, which we urgently need; while our country does not pursue its monetary policy. On the basis of this, we will not support this law; not because it is proposed by the SDS or because we would feel that this law is not necessarily necessary, but simply because, as I have said, we do not agree with this concept, which in our opinion limits flexibility in the application of this policy and is stricter than what the European acquis requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u187	Any other explanation for the voice? Mr. Uroš Prikl for the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u188	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the proposed law in the Desus Group. The fact is that today it is not a question of whether fiscal rule is good or whether fiscal rule is bad. The fact is that we have changed the Constitution a little while ago and have therefore committed ourselves to formally balancing public finances through fiscal rules in the medium term. Clearly, all other efforts have not been successful and have been excessively indebted. Why don't we support this bill on fiscal rule, but we will be the one that the government has already adopted and introduced to us only the content. We will do this because the proposed law is more rigorous, sharper, allowing less room for manoeuvre, but of course we do not want it at the end. We do not want the rights of the socially weak to be affected on this basis. We do not want the Intergenerational Reserve Fund to be questioned on the basis of the content of this Act. These are all the arguments that suggest that unfortunately we will be in an unconstitutional state for another week or two, and then we will adopt this law. I believe that we will do a lot of good directly for the balance of public finances; and indirectly – and importantly – for all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u189	Since I have noticed that there is also an interest in individual explanations of vote, please apply. Before that, I ask whether Mr. German wanted to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? All right, explanation of the vote of the Group before the individual; this is on behalf of the SD Group of Members, Mr German.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much, President, for your word. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, the proposal is too restrictive and rigid, in our view, in some ways this law or this proposal could also be a great trap, as it could in a short time have a positive, medium-term and long-term effect on the inability of some effective countercyclical measure or action. Thus, the international and our own constitutional commitment of the balanced budgetary sector of the State does not justify acts which, on the other hand, could be flattered with exemplary obedience, a willingness to accept commitments; on the other hand, it would upset the possibilities of action. If a fiscal rule seems necessary because of our own mistakes, and ultimately because of the European framework for joint recovery in the fight against macroeconomic imbalances, we must not close this narrow space simply because of our imprudentness and our impossibility. We will not support the proposal because of everything the Social Democrats have said.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u191	They now follow the explanations of vote in their own name. First of all, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I'm listening to this and I'm thinking and I remembered my great-grandmothers. She was born in 1911, and the world began to realize at the end of World War I, when three were very dry years. She did not need a fiscal rule because she understood that Bible metaphor about the dry and fat cows and such and other years. A colleague on the far right said he was ashamed. I'm actually ashamed, too, because we have a fiscal rule in the Constitution. And I am ashamed that the previous call of the National Assembly, by which the current Secretary of Defense boasted, went over minor differences and burned that the people could no longer decide on fiscal matters at the referendums. If we take the metaphor that Slovenia is a chicken or a chicken, and look at the proposal for a fiscal rule of the coalition and the proposal for a fiscal rule of the largest opposition party, I can say that the coalition wants to transform the people into a poly salami and slowly cut them; and the biggest opposition party wants to grab the chicken by the neck and strangle it. I'll never support such fiscal rules, even if the party boss pulls me by the ears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u193	The explanation for the vote is mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I already saw my buddy Duck eating poultry. On the other hand, at the December meeting of the National Assembly, a historic conversion took place, for the parties to the Transitional Left supported the continuation of the measures of the Public Finance Balance Act, i.e. the law against which they had struck two years ago and against which they had spoken that they would destroy the social state. In December, they voted in favour of extending these measures. Therefore, it is obvious, or at least counting, that the time has come for them to make another historic conversion; for these parties to support the continuation of this story — that is, a golden fiscal rule — so that they can adopt some healthy farming logic into public finances. For if they have confirmed the limitation of the wages and incomes of public servants, they are likely to vote in the same logic to limit the spending and spending of the country. And that is why I am optimistic about this debate on the golden fiscal rule. This is a law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'll support the marriage. The law is the first reading and it goes into some normal procedure, which enables the quality of this law to be upgraded and solves the crucial issue that we should all be concerned about if we are not already. In fact, it is solving the situation in which Slovenia is now, i.e. in an unconstitutional situation. And to whom in this Chamber, being in an unconstitutional position does not mean a red alarm; it does not mean that he cares about constitutional democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u195	Mrs. Susana Nice Šimenka has an explanation for her vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting on my part, too! Public finances are not balanced in Slovenia. Let's spend significantly more than we create. If we had a budget surplus of 0.5% of gross domestic product in 2007, a slightly moderate budget deficit of 1.9% of gross domestic product in 2008, we have been through more than 3% in the budget deficit since 2009 – that is above the level allowed. And we can only assume from this that we are extremely highly indebted. Let me also point out that we spend €1.1 billion per year on interest, which means, given the current revenue in the budget, 13% of the total revenue in the budget. And as I mentioned here yesterday, that is about as much as if we had a net salary of EUR 770 and would have given it 100 euros just for interest. It is precisely in order to prevent this headless indebtedness and thus to bear the burden of the crisis on the economy, citizens and citizens that it is essential for us to write down as clearly and unequivocally as possible the rule for the implementation of the fiscal rule. Clearly, we have not mature enough in Slovenia in view of the financial situation for more relaxed rules. That's exactly why I think our proposal is good. It contains a formula that clearly sets out the calculation of the expenditure ceiling and clearly defines where exceptional circumstances may derogate from the principle of medium-term balance of public finances. I will definitely support this law myself because I want to limit the increase in the country's indebtedness if it doesn't stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u197	Mr Janez Janša has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I think not only will I support this marriage, but this law must be supported by all those who take the constitution seriously. Slovenia has been in a formal unconstitutional position for some time because of the absence of this law. As from 1 January, the Slovenian budget will also be unconstitutional because it is not balanced. You don't decide on the golden fiscal rule today, because it's already in the Constitution. And the Constitutional Law, when we wrote this down in the Constitution, also states that it is the first time it has been fully applied to the 2015 budget. From 1 January onwards, the government will deal with any constitutional initiative or complaint if the implementing law has not been adopted and formalised by then the state of law with the 2015 budget. This law, which we have proposed, has been harmonised, widely aligned through a two-thirds majority with the same provisions when the golden fiscal rule was enshrined in the Constitution. Many who have now spoken against it have also agreed. If there were no such agreement, there would be no constitutional change. Now the government comes with its proposal, which essentially erases the golden fiscal rule. Why? Because the government is now proposing that the government coalition itself determine when the situation is so difficult that it can spend significantly more than it can generate. I would like to know which government, when it is in trouble, will not decide that the situation is difficult and that it can be wasted. The golden fiscal rule is in the constitutions just to limit governments before excessive spending, in electoral years and so on. And what you offer as an alternative does not save the situation. Essentially different solutions than those proposed are not possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u199	Mr Andrej Chuš has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u200	Your Honor! Thank you for your word. Let me start by saying that I will also support the proposal for a fiscal rule law. This is due mainly to the fact that we have already missed or, say, lost a lot of time in recent years for the necessary structural reforms. Unfortunately, after several discussions and meetings of the National Assembly, I have had the feeling that we will lose even more time in the future, as the government of Mira Cerar, in my view, has already lost the so-called reform charge after 90 days. Debt at the expense of maintaining the current situation in society is not healthy. The fact is that the biggest loser in such a policy and maintaining the current state of affairs in the country is the young generation and generations that will come after us. Tell me where it is normal to spend as much as 10% or even more, or a billion euros a year to pay off interest. And these numbers will even grow from year to year. A newborn comes into the world today with 14 000 euros in debt and imagine how difficult the future of young people will be in the coming years. How much less money will be for education, for health care, for all other rights – much less. Multiple emigration of young people from Slovenia is no coincidence, but it is only a reaction to an intergenerational, uncoordinated policy that most takes on young people. And if we don't write it down as a marriage, it's gonna get worse. There are many Members in the National Assembly who say that respect for the Constitution is required; and I warn you that we are in an unconstitutional situation. I don't know if I would be proud to vote against the Constitution for the second time within a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u201	Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u202	Dear President! Look what he has to say. I think that the argument to be explained, anyone who has studied the economy, is not just a problem of the height of public debt, the problem is the trend of public debt. The trend of public debt, which is emerging exponentially, we've come to an exponential curve; and that's not linear, that's what disaster is. The second part of the public debt problem is that we are not in charge of investments that over the years bring us some kind of return, but we are in charge of the pure public functioning of institutions. That's the critical part. The medium-term period, ladies and gentlemen, we are already late. For the medium term they could take from 2009 to 2014, that is 5 years, this is the medium-term period for me. Look, every day we delay, this puts the pensions of those who will no longer be able to work, generations of young people, as Colleague Chuš explained. And this is followed by the collapse of the country. Some compare us with the United States of America, which have its own currency, which operates according to its own principles, which is likely to bring about the collapse of such a country in the long run. We know what's going on with China, how many bonds they're buying, what kind of chess the United States is holding. All of this points to the ignorance of some serious economic policy. And also those colleagues who were in the previous reference when the Swiss delegation was here when they were talking about a project called "Schuldenbrems", as they say, told what it meant for Switzerland, what it meant for serious stability, for serious investors and everything else. We must accept this, as President Janša has said today; we are also working against the Constitution. It's not just an economic collapse that can follow us. I will support this, I think that everyone who is responsible for this, including those who know the history of previous socialist countries, all these countries have collapsed for this. I also appeal to other colleagues to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u203	Any other explanation for the voice? Mr. Duck, you can only have procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u204	Procedurally. Please, Mr President, to protect me from being insulted in this room because it is said that we are not mature. I am no longer allowed to have a negative situation in my account in this millennium, let alone an illegal one. If you're not mature, maybe you're 89 years old, I'm mature. But I would be very happy if someone would explain to me what is so gold on the golden fiscal rule. I'd love to have someone tell me if he's already read the book. My colleague Logar also ate chicken at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u205	It was a procedural abuse. Because today, obviously, the diameter of how a processor is used is relatively wide, I will not specifically warn him. Now I'm asking you to apply for a vote. Luke Moon has an explanation of his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. We've heard of people who know before because they studied economics. Anyone who has studied the economy knows that the country has to pursue countercyclical policies by default in times of crisis or all the time. This means that in times of crisis, spending increases; and this means that in good times, in times of conjuncture, it saves. Slovenia did not save before the crisis, but it would save during the crisis. So for ten years he has been running pro-cyclical policies; just the opposite of what he should be leading. The result, Comrade Chuš, is youth unemployment. Young people in Slovenia are not in debt; young people in Slovenia are victims of ten years of failed economic policies. This failed economic policy will further deepen fiscal rule, as it will constitutionally oblige us to save ourselves during the crisis, which is reckless and has never resolved the debt crisis in history. We don't know any country, except maybe Ceausescu Romania, which went so far as to rationalise electricity, limited the number of eggs a person can eat a week and so on, that it could export so much sophistication that Ceausescu paid off his debts at the end of the decade, that is, in 89. But we know how it all ended. If you want to risk such a scenario in Slovenia, please choose; the United Left will not cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u207	Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you. In the first place, I will support the bill because we have been in unconstitutional times for more than a year. All those who advocate or defend the rule of law here today would, at any rate, extend the unconstitutional functioning of our National Assembly and Government by pressing "against" this law. As early as 2009, the government, in which two-thirds of the parties of that time have signed the Stability and Growth Pact, has given the European Union certain commitments, which we are happy to break. Politics continues by lying to ourselves and to others. I will support the bill because I think you can save when you have it; but we have nothing. Respectfully, Slovenia as a country owes more than 30 billion, and we are talking about saving. You save when you have money, not when you don't have money. Dearly beloved, I will support the bill because I am afraid of the bill being drafted by the government coalition because it wants to delete the formula for determining the maximum amount of expenditure; this means that the reopened door will be the spirals of debt. The longer we treat our state finances, the more we get a headache, the more we end up with an account for treatment, the greater it will be if we start treating state finances immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u209	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u210	Respectable. It is right that we are clear — all those who lend or offer money on the market are the most happy socialist governments and the socialist thinking we have listened to before. Welcome, you're offering a new paradise for money lenders. Here is another problem, namely, the Constitutional Law is a commitment to citizens. The commitment that the state will strengthen budgetary discipline and the commitment that the state will finally act as a good master. Those who, in their discussions at the time of the consideration of the law, also spoke of the fact that the law is too strict and too demanding in comparison with some international obligations, must be mistaken. Slovenia is in such a state that it needs a strict and very binding law. However, since you know exactly what is enshrined in the Constitution, in 2015 the State of Slovenia should have a balanced budget. And because, of course, you will not succeed, and you know this, you want to play the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with some kind of weakness. But, you know, by playing the Constitution, you'll be playing yourself, especially the citizens. I will support the law, because I cannot do such a thing and, of course, I do not want the state to sink further.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u211	The explanation for the vote is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I will support the conclusion that the law goes into further consideration. I think this is necessary at this point because, of course, I do not want the state to be in an unconstitutional state, and I do not want the 2015 budget to be in unconstitutional condition and to travel to the Constitutional Court, where, in accordance with Article 148, the Constitutional Court will have to decide on this as early as January. For this reason, I propose to the coalition parties to reconsider and to take a decision on this, on the basis of this law, to adopt certain solutions that would also allow for the constitutional functioning of the country in 2015. According to all the above, this law naturally has a numerical limit. Yes, the deficit is expressed by numbers, the debts are expressed by numbers, the expenses are expressed by numbers. As a result, expenditure must be determined by an exact number, otherwise it does not work. They cannot be the subject of a government decision every time if we want to implement a constitutional provision. Secondly, as economic growth increases, we will be able to pay more easily the debts and interest set out in the amounts. With economic growth, we will not reduce debt, but economic growth will give us the opportunity to pay all the interest we actually have. As a result, I believe that the constitutional situation of this country must be ensured. 1. 1. 2015 The budgets of the whole public sector must be aligned with Article 148 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u213	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I must say that I took a long time and listened to all that I had to hear today on this subject in the National Assembly. And now I understand and understand why the situation in public finances is as it is. If they teach us about economic policy, about the sustainability of finances in our country, people who don't have a minute of working time in the real sector who don't know what it means to make money; they give us economic policy in our country and I have to listen to people like that. I wonder, Mr President, how can and how someone in general thinks that way or how an economy, an entrepreneur, a country, a family, a family budget survives by taking credit to repay the previous loan, the previous one, the former one, the former one, the former one, and so on. And he pays interest on the current loan, the previous loan, the previous loan, the previous loan, and so on. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, I do not think that there is such an economic policy in the world that would sustain such behaviour. And that is why it is extraordinary and crucial to do so — what? Two key things. One is that it is necessary to invest in the development of the economy on the one hand, higher added value, new jobs and so on. On the other hand – to save at the same time. This is how to bring any economy and country out of the state that our country is in. And I think that one of the key solutions is this law that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party; and that is why this law that we have tabled will also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u215	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. So we can vote on the decision: The proposal for a fiscal rule law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 57. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 57.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act is suitable for further consideration. Mr Andrej Couch has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, which we have also invested in the legislative process. I would like to say myself that in the last two weeks we have offered two systemic solutions to abolish volunteer traineeships. At the hearing yesterday, too, the debate was very rich, including a varied one. Somehow we all agreed that the proposal, the purposes and the objectives of our proposal are good, are going in the right direction, and if you remember, I also said that let us sleep for a day, think about it, and let us please step together and do something good for young people. In the SDS Group, we are consistent and follow our pre-election programme, as we presented it before the elections. Unfortunately, we cannot claim this for the government of Mira Cerar, because today, after 90 days of government, the President of the Government has said that one of the priorities of his government is concern for young people. And we are therefore wondering why such electricity is proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party to help volunteers to finally stop this modern slavery. Young people have sufficient social support and programmes and it is right to allow them equality in the labour market. With this proposal for the amendment to the Labour Relations Act, we want to enable young people to move to a regular working relationship as soon as possible. Unfortunately, in such a social policy, as is the case in our country, young people must be registered for several months at the employment agency and only then can they ask for some subsidies. We don't think that's a systemic measure. I would like to say that with this measure, we do not take any right from any of the volunteer trainees, but we are giving the basis for payment and thus, somehow, we are following the Constitution – equality in payment. It is also a multiple measure, as volunteer trainees will be paid, having multiple effects in making it easier for young people to become independent in Slovenia. Yesterday, I said that we are second in Slovenia to the European Union by the proportion of young people living at home with their parents. Two thirds of young people live with their parents, and I don't think we can be most proud of that. Minister Anja Kopač Dark talks a lot about the problem of young people and what anomalies are volunteer traineeships; but for two years she has done nothing to resolve it. In doing so, I would like to say that we have introduced the law into the first reading and we propose to adopt it and to supplement it with the opinions of the Government and the social partners on the working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u217	Mrs Erika Dekleva has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Yesterday, we witnessed a debate in the National Assembly in which we all agreed to change – volunteering really needs to be abolished. The fact is that young people are in the labour market, where they are exposed to many risks. It is true that their employment is unstable and their path to independence is difficult. In the SMC Group, we have repeatedly stressed that the purpose and purpose of the proposed law are indeed good, we all agree, but unfortunately the applicants have not chosen the right path to achieve this objective. The Labour Relations Act is a statutory law on labour market and labour relations and does not govern the Institute of Volunteer Training, as it also refers to other sectoral laws in Article 124 itself. For substantive reasons, we will not support the law, but, of course, we call on the Government to proceed as soon as possible with the implementation of the conclusions adopted last week and to initiate procedures to amend the sectoral laws defining volunteer traineeships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u219	Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Please apply for your own explanation of vote. Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. I will certainly support this law already because yesterday I found that in fact you all agree with the bill, but another obstacle stands in your way not to support it. You all agreed that volunteering was not appropriate, that it should be abolished, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we proposed that this should be done in a roof law, that is, in the Labour Relations Act. We have proposed the abolition of volunteering, we have proposed an incentive for employers to take up working hours for trainees. At the same time, in the 4th indent, we also proposed to regulate regional laws, i.e. sectoral laws. With this, we certainly, if this law is not already confirmed, encouraged the government to start talking about volunteering; and we also experienced a sharp response, which means that we have proved that the law is good, and that we have also proved that the government in this area has done absolutely nothing, despite many words. All those who agreed yesterday will also today express your support that volunteering should be abolished, if you are honest in your words, then you must support this law for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u221	Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We all agreed yesterday that it is unacceptable that we currently have about 800 volunteers; the last call for about 200 trainees went out on September 10th this year. I know that this happened eight days before you confirmed your government, Mir Cerar, but then our Ambassador Jelka Godec addressed the Minister of Education with a written question on how to deal with these traineeships in the future. She has received an answer that the practice that has been in force so far will be followed in the future. This is said to be the case – volunteer traineeships will continue. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have put this into regular procedure because it can still be amended, so that we can invite the social partners within the Economic and Social Council, where we will finally, I think, get the young one. Of course, thanks again to us for proposing this, and to you, because this, thank you, has been confirmed that further discussions are being held. There was a great deal in the debate about the fact that there are still many of these under-laws. Whoever read our proposal could have read that in Article 4, we are directing the harmonisation of these sub-legislative acts. And the fear of violating the rights of those eight hundred who are already doing volunteer training is superfluous, because we all know about retroactivity. We have written in the proposal that the novelties of the ZDR apply only to new treaties. Therefore, the traineeship is now free of charge, and according to our proposal it would no longer be voluntary; it would be a paid internship. I think those of you who have your mouth full of how you're going to work for the young can support it now. But once again, as I used to say about the Penal Code, if it doesn't go through today, we will. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] re-introducing a new law, and this time in various areas, i.e. several areas. [[…]] And then again, I don't know what you're gonna come up with for an answer not to confirm it. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u223	Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u224	Thank you, President. I will support the bill for several reasons. The first reason is because we follow our pre-election programme. Already in 2013, with the amendment tabled by the SDS, Nova Slovenija and SLS, we gave volunteers some supplement, paid transportation and paid lunch. I will support the proposal for a law because I agree that it is right that the employer is exempt from payment of contributions for the duration of the traineeship. I will support the bill because I agree that every job counts, but let every job be paid. I will support this bill because we will do more for the social state and give it to the socialist state. I will support this bill because there is a systemic solution before us, because one law also changes all those laws that touch on the problems of traineeships and also on the subject of sub-legislative acts. So we have a system solution ahead of us. I will support the bill because I do not believe the empty words of the government, which is aware that volunteering is a problem, but it does not put any way, deadline or content on how it will solve this problem. And I will support the proposal for a law because we are in the first reading and can, in the second reading, together with the social partners, even on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, make this law even better and even more feasible in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u225	The explanation of vote is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. I didn't run out. In the United Left, we have no problem supporting laws that are substantively good, even if few nomotechnicians are limping. As I said in the debate, volunteering is one of the forms of modern slavery. It is the first reading of a law that I hope will pass through the boards and that it will improve. Although when I look at what's going on in the hall, I now get the feeling that SMC has got the directive, that half of them will get out, that they won't vote, and that unfortunately this won't be voted out. I don't know if that's what the cameraman was monitoring. I have to say this somehow. And I hope that there will be more such initiatives from any party; however, I note that once there is some generational change in the SDS, there will be a possibility of a major coalition, because we are very well co-operated with young colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u227	The explanation for the vote is mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I guess I'm lucky today to always be talking to Mr. Duck. But I won't come out of his last words. The question of free or volunteering has been an inherent issue for some time now. Already in the electoral run for the European elections, when one of the parties in this political space was not yet present, the parties competed with each other on what they advocated to put an end to this volunteer traineeship. We have now had and have the opportunity to correct this mistake. The party that came along today, the Prime Minister of the Government said in one of the interviews that they do not support volunteering, so again your President of the Government is giving you a green light to support this law. I will be happy to support this law, which was drawn up by the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it is the first concrete realization of the words and commitments of all those who have opposed volunteer traineeships; and it is a good basis for further discussions. Yesterday there was a debate with representatives of the Ministry and the Secretary of State concluded about this – we need to save them in the following year. Look, we can save today. The government coalition wants to solve this in the coming year. Let's do something for young people, so I will support this bill and allow this anomaly to be removed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u229	Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u230	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor! I will not support this bill because I do not think it is the right way to solve the problem. My personal position and also the position of the Party Desus is that we do not support volunteering, free and free traineeships, but we want to approach the matter systematically. In a way, the proponents, I must admit, you have achieved your goal or purpose – you have encouraged the government to make very concrete decisions. Among other things, it adopted a decision prohibiting the conclusion of contracts on unpaid or voluntary traineeships. Moreover, I believe that a large number of Members will be vigilant about the measures taken by the Government. I am sure that it will not take a year for this volunteer traineeship, as a poor emergency exit at this time, to be effectively eliminated. If you allow me, at this point I would like to point out maybe two other issues that are still of some importance for the youth segment in the labour market. One thing, of course, is that there is an absolute need to continue with existing measures to reduce segmentation in the labour market, which is a strong effort by the young generation; and, essentially, what needs to be said here, to check the possibility of deregulation of some professions in order to improve things. As it is said, I will not support the proposal of the law, and I will keep abreast of what will happen through the conclusions of the Government adopted at the previous meeting. I can also assure you, as chairman of the committee, that I will somehow, if you like, urge the Ministry to speed up all its activities here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u231	Another round of explanations. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u232	Your Honor! First, I'd like to ask you how many laws we've been dealing with all week were the government's proponents? 70% of all proposals were prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. I would be very happy if you were the Government's candidate, because then this law would be adopted today. But still, I'm glad. I am pleased that the Secretary of State, in his own debate on this Law on the Systematic Arrangement of Youth Traineeships, has said that the Government will now begin to think about regulating this area as soon as possible. I'm just running out of time for this to work for the government. I would like the government to delete the SDS as soon as possible from this proposal and to write up the SMC that this thing will come and see the light as soon as possible, because the problems of young people, to whom we somehow regulate the systematic exercise of traineeships, are an operational law. We know the condition of young people and that some reliability of traineeships gives them first-hand experience, work experience and, in fact, confidence in finding their first job. So it's about young people. As I see from the debate, you will not support the law, but be creative with the amended proposal back to the meeting tomorrow, so that young people can also take advantage of this change, which is, of course, good, to improve this segment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u233	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u234	Of course, I will support the proposed law. I will also support it because, if this law is approved and adopted, we will take a step closer to preventing young people from leaving our country and going abroad to seek better opportunities. Even so, those in rural areas or in less developed areas will have at least a handful of opportunities to find suitable employment. I will also support the law because there was no substantive argument at yesterday's debate that would oppose its support; but there was one argument why some would not support it today. The argument is prestige. The only problem is that the proposal has been prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party; and now some are beating themselves over the head because they were not faster. But you know, if, in the first place, it would lead us all to do something good for citizens in this country, then such a proposal should certainly receive sufficient support. But that's the way it is. The prestige is he and some of his skin will unfortunately never be able to get out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u235	The explanation for the vote is mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I cannot support the proposed law for further consideration. This is certainly not because of the objective that the proposal seeks to achieve, so that we do not want to prevent volunteer traineeships. The reason is substantive. In substance, because this part is not part of the Labour Relations Act; in substance, because the Labour Relations Act is not the law that determines when an internship in an area is compulsory or optional, the so-called 124th Article speaks of other things. And it's not true that the government hasn't done anything. It has already done so before today, and I cannot support this, because at the 13th regular meeting the government has banned the further conclusion of voluntary traineeship contracts in the public sector and requires all ministries to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the sectoral laws which, if I see correctly, five allowing volunteer traineeships. And specifically requires the Ministry of Labour to prepare an employment programme. I'm not going to support him, either, because this pain we've got goes a lot longer. If we continue to eat painkillers, we will have even more ulcers on our stomach. In fact, if we are talking about volunteer traineeships in teachers, we see that 762 have jobs this year and 37 have jobs. And the diplomats are 700. It seems to me that we have to go somewhere else than just to change the Labour Relations Act. So I cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u237	Mr Andrej Chuš has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u238	Yeah, you're really gonna have to take one strong pill to make it better. There are currently 831 volunteers. In the Labour Relations Act; in Article 124 everything is well written, regulated. I would like to say that in the last article of the amendment, we regulate compliance with all other sub-legislative acts and regulations. And young people, I said yesterday, young people are up to these conclusions when we find out that this is a problem, I don't know what we're finding out, I said yesterday. We can see that the earth is round, and we will be no better off than finding out that this is also the problem that we are talking about today if we do nothing. The Slovenian Youth Council said that it is skeptical of the words and promises of the competent Minister of Labour. We're consistent, too, and we said so. The Minister has been talking about this for two years. I think this scepticism is justified. We also listened to similar findings from the coalition yesterday. I think that quite a few of the discussers from the SDS Group have slightly rejected all these findings with arguments. And of course, then some specific comments were not received, nor were the replicas, the debate was almost closed. Firstly, we estimate that there is a will to regulate the area of volunteer traineeships in full. We have had enough of these words and the promise of the Government of Mir Cerar, as we have always done in the Group of Members, we have come up with a concrete proposal. We put it in first reading, we can complete it, and if you have enough to arrange it, vote "yes" and go to second treatment on your mother's working body. Let us be a little bit in the spirit of intergenerational solidarity — more young people will work, more will work for pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u239	Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will gladly support this law, and I must also make it very clear that I am extremely happy and proud to be a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. This is because, at the moment, there is a party in this House that is proposing substantive solutions for the Slovenian people for individual groups of people in this country. If the government does not do so – and does not do so – this is done by the Slovenian Democratic Party in accordance with the programme and the programme that went to the elections. And that is why I am proud that we have also introduced this law, which is still very important. I don't think it's been heard today that anyone would object to this law; except that we always listen, we don't choose the right path, we don't choose the right time, we don't choose the right way, I don't know what else we don't choose to take this matter through the National Assembly. I don't know whether it's because we're in opposition or because there's a coalition in this national assembly that doesn't care about what's going on with our people. It doesn't matter! If that were not the case, the proposal we have put forward would be uncompromisingly voted by everyone sitting in here because you are all aware that this problem needs to be solved. And if the government is unable to save him, it is capable of proposing, both substantively and qualitatively, the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're different here from the coalition and the government. And that's all. This law solves two important issues, including what has already been said many times today that employers will be exempt from payment of contributions. And unlike the Youth Guarantee, according to our proposal, young people will not need to be on the labour market for three months and will be able to perform immediately. This is extremely important for young people. We have moved forward in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have proposed a law on a dual school system that will enable young people to move to the labour market more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u241	Any other explanation for the voice? I can't see. Violeta Tomić has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. Although I am listening to Marian Pojbič's pathetic smugness, which goes away to think about the content; I must say that in the United Left we stick to good suggestions no matter who proposes them and in what way, because we have to stick to the content. The solution proposed by the SDS is also not optimal; it simply shuts down volunteer traineeships in all areas. However, we are convinced that the solution to this problem needs to be done with caution so that we do not cause any problems to those who are subject to a professional examination which is a condition for the performance of the profession. But some are rich enough to be able to work for free; and of course, this increases injustice. I will therefore support the conclusion that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, despite all concerns. I think that the government has more than enough time to propose appropriate corrections before the second reading of the proposal on the home working body. However, the solution must be such as to ensure that those young people for whom the traineeship is a condition for the performance of their profession are provided with a system of quality, professional mentoring supported and, of course, decently paid traineeships. So – I support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u243	With this, we have exhausted explanations of vote. And we can vote on the proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. The vote was 31 and against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, it is on a defensive proposal for a bill on the ratification of the European Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Violence in the Society and on the Fight Against Them. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u244	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! We welcome the day when we have at the table the final law on ratification of the so-called Istanbul Convention or the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Violence in the Family. In the past, we have repeatedly warned that Slovenia has not yet ratified this Convention, and last but not least in its 2013 annual report to the Ombudsman. The Convention was opened for signature and ratification from 11 May 2011, the Republic of Slovenia signed it on 8 September 2011, and three years later we will finally ratify it. The Convention entered into force on 1 August this year, when it was signed by a sufficient number of countries, there must be ten of them, including at least eight Member States of the Council of Europe. The Istanbul Convention takes an integrated approach to addressing the prevention of domestic violence against women and violence. It includes measures in the area of prevention of violence against women as protection of victims of prosecution of perpetrators of violence, and calls for the adoption of legal and political measures to ensure the coordinated and coordinated functioning of all necessary institutions to criminalise violence against women and to ensure appropriate and effective penalties for perpetrators of violence. We are pleased that the preamble to the Convention specifically stresses that, in order to realize de jure and de facto equality between women and men, the key component of preventing violence against women is. It is stressed that violence against women also reflects the historically unequal power relations between women and men, leading to the domination and discrimination of men against women and preventing the full progress of women. Most of the violence occurs in the family, whether in marriage or outside marriage, behind four walls, but with the doors pierced. In most cases, everyone knows everything and more, but, unfortunately, no one. Violence against women and domestic violence are still taboo. Society still acts as if this is a matter of the individual concerned. But the problem goes beyond sex, religion, culture, age, education. It is much more than just what we in modern society have reduced this contemptible act by turning aside. It raises the issue of security and fundamental human rights, which the State is obliged to protect, so there is no and there is no way that this is a private matter for individuals. But violence makes us deaf and blind, full of excuses: Take care of yourself, until the victims of violence report, because they are either ashamed or afraid of further violence or that no one will believe them. The statistics available show a shocking picture of the social and health consequences. I hope to say that official statistics are only a drop into the sea of reality. NGOs in Slovenia estimate that violence is present in every five families in Slovenia. That every seventh woman was raped. Only 5% of all women with experience of violence seek any help. Our inaction and turning away from violence against women, domestic violence, give comfort and make it socially acceptable. The Convention obliges the Parties to take the necessary legislative and other measures to promote and protect the rights for everyone, especially women, to live without violence in public and private life. The Parties shall condemn all forms of discrimination against women and undertake to take the necessary legislative and other measures to prevent it without delay. They undertake to take measures to promote changes, changes in social and cultural patterns, the behaviour of women and men in order to eradicate prejudices, customs, traditions and all other practices based on the idea of women's inferiority and on the stereotyped roles of women and men. I believe that, as Members and Members, in our first garden, we will, by example, contribute to the realization of these commitments and, finally, the Convention contains mechanisms for the adoption of its provisions. Let's not just keep it in letters on paper. Your Honor! That's enough black statistics! Enough with the distress of the wife and children! That's enough shivering! Social Democrats will be supported unanimously by the Act ratifying the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Violence against Women in the Family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u245	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u246	Let the man talk about the subject as well. Members of the Party of Mir Cerar Group believe that today the entire assembly will support the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Violence against Women in the Family. Violence against women and domestic violence are among the most common but at the same time the most hidden forms of human rights violations and discrimination, and therefore the primary objective of the Convention is to create a Europe without violence against women and violence in society. Statistics say that in the 28 Member States of the European Union, every third woman is subjected to physical or sexual violence after 15 years of age. This means that 62 million women were raped, maimed, harassed, beaten or killed. In Slovenia, 22% of women experience physical or sexual violence. What is particularly important and encouraging in this so-called Istanbul Convention is that the Convention strengthens the responsibility of countries to promote gender equality and the protection of human rights, victims of such violence, as it is violence resulting from gender relations that preserves and creates inequality between women and cats. The Convention prevents violence against women and domestic violence, which means preventing many tragic events. It requires protection because when violence occurs, it is important that victims and those who witness violence receive adequate support and protection. It also requires prosecution and punishment or requires that violence against women and violence against women be defined as a criminal offence. It shall also monitor the application of the provisions of the Convention. The Convention introduces many important movements, even more, the Convention introduces as a novelty the definition of the following: forced marriage, stalking, forced abortion, female genital mutilation, forced sterilisation. It therefore calls for the involvement and participation of all relevant State offices in the prevention and treatment of violence against women not in the family. Furthermore, the Convention also regulates international cooperation, the monitoring mechanism, the implementation of the Convention's provisions, the relationship of the Convention to other international instruments and possible reservations. The Commission for International Relations and European Affairs, acting within the Council of the Republic of Slovenia, supports the proposal for a law on ratification and, last but not least, the Legal and Legal Service, on a proposal from the law, has no comments and declares that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia. The Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, of course, supports.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u247	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. An explanation of vote, on behalf of the parliamentary group? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, United Left, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u248	Thank you. We have now heard two very moving views from two parliamentary groups, but one small piece of information has been forgotten. In the law on ratification of this Convention, the Government has adopted one reservation, which is that certain articles of this Convention will not be implemented because of this, as Secretary Levanič said, because it would require minor additions in Slovenian legislation. Which articles will not be implemented? Article 30, paragraph 2, where the State will not be forced to pay compensation to victims of domestic violence. The first paragraph of Article 44 is a point where the adoption of a law does not provide for jurisdiction for criminal conduct. Even more important are the parts mentioned by both previous speakers, which means that legislation will not essentially be amended at that point, which would stipulate that it is not necessary to report victims in order to start prosecution against forced marriages, genital mutilation and so on. In the United Left, of course, we will support this law because it is necessary, but in some ways we expect the Government, despite this five-year renewable period, to correct the relevant legislation, of course, in accordance with the Convention, and in some ways to enable the full human rights or rights of women in these areas, which the Convention does not only provide for the right to reservations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u249	Any other explanation for the voice? On behalf of the MP? On behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u250	We will also support the limited proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, but at the same time I have to say in this or our opinion that it is a bit unusual, how many words have been said, so encouraging about what is going on, that the last time we had the opportunity to make a broad debate on violence against women in Slovenia, it was not supported. A little two-faced. I hope that with this support somehow we are all moving forward together. However, it would also be right to support this debate, because it talks about violence against women and what is actually going on in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u251	Any other explanation for the voice? I can't see. So we can vote. We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present and 80 were voted against. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of Protocol No. 16 OF THE CONVENTION ON THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, the amendment at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There were 83 members and 82 votes in favour and one in favour. [[The vote was 82.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. DOCTOR OF THE DAY – IT'S ON MANATE VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We will first consider the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. On the basis of the decision to determine the number of seats of members of the working groups of the National Assembly and to determine the groups of Members belonging to them as President and Vice-President of the working bodies of the National Assembly, adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its first meeting on 22 August 2014, and in accordance with my letter of 22 October 2014, the hearing was resubmitted to the assembly by the candidates for the President, the Vice-President and the members of that Commission. In order to present my views, I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First of all, the Group of Ambassadors has a United Left for her, Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u252	Dear Mr. President, I thank you for your word. I'll be brief. In the United Left, it seems unacceptable that after three months of the government's performance, we have not yet resolved this problem. I think that after three months and after three votes, we are back before the same dilemma as at the beginning. There are two possible solutions to this problem. The first is that the SDS withdraws the contested candidate, and the second is that coalition parties find a way not to vote in the bloc, but to vote for each candidate individually. Of course, the United Left in this composition of the Commission will not confirm because it seems politically unacceptable to us that someone who is supervised wants to control their overseers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u253	Presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u254	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we want parliamentary supervision of security and intelligence services to take place as soon as possible. We are one of the few countries that, a few months after the constitution of Parliament, still lacks civil control over intelligence and security services. In Novi Slovenija we find such a principle and such an approach unacceptable. The Commission, which we have been trying to establish for a long time, is special, different from all other committees and committees. In other committees and commissions, the majority that the coalition can provide, there are also commissions where the opposition has a prescribed majority of its rules of procedure, and there can be a majority of the opposition. However, this Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission is specific in that it must be coordinated in order to operate this commission, as far as the opposition and the coalition operate in a coordinated manner. In order for this commission to work, the opposition and the coalition must cooperate. As a result, we do not really understand the groups of Members who have already blocked and prevented the appointment of this commission at the time of its appointment. Why is such a blockade at the time of the appointment of this commission pointless and unnecessary? Because the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission has several mechanisms requiring fair, consistent work from this Commission and which require the coordinated functioning of the opposition and the coalition. For each individual supervision, even though we are setting up and forming this commission today, for each individual supervision, a special supervisory group, in a tri-member group, must be formed. This three-member group must be composed of representatives of the coalition and the opposition. As a result, the guardian is introduced into this commission's system of operation, so that neither the opposition nor the coalition could abuse this commission for their political purposes or for their ideas, because you need a varied and varied commission for any supervision. And another important mechanism that this Commission also brings is that, if a Member would like to control the proceedings against himself, it can be denied to him by supervised services. So I do not see any fear that any Member in such or otherwise would be able to oversee these services or the specific procedure in which he was placed. We have already had cases, I can tell you a concrete example of the Victory of Jelinčič when he left for some control, but whether or not to the whole group, the entire Commission's supervised service rejected this control because he was a concrete Member in the process. That's a very important detail. And the third thing. None of us, not me or any of you, knows if he's in a certain process where covert investigation measures are used. Where a person is in criminal proceedings for such or other reasons, it does not mean that he is subject to covert investigation measures. And this Commission has the authority to supervise intelligence and security services only in these actions, whether the covert investigation measures are legally applied. In view of everything, I really do not see any reason to continue to block the establishment of this commission, because this does not give the coalition anything less than the opposition. By preventing parliamentary oversight of security and intelligence services, only these services that can work illegally at this time are actually acquired, and we do not know this because we do not control them. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposed decision and the proposed members of the Commission with the hope of establishing parliamentary oversight of security and intelligence services as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u255	Presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u256	Good evening! We cannot accept this proposal in the Alliance, which is more or less clear. Clearly, nothing has changed completely. The Constitutional Court has suspended implementation and has sent a colleague, whom we have excluded from the Member States, back to Parliament. It has made it very clear that it will decide when it will decide, which means that we still have a legally convicted Member, and these are the essences and I simply and our Alliance cannot agree that on a committee that not only controls intelligence, but also internal affairs, including the police, of course, one MP sits on a commission that will supervise these services. This is simply confused with all the wisdom, logic and all the things Slovenians and Slovenes understand. True, I agree with that, in the SDS party and all supporters speak and say that human rights have been violated – I don't know who said that – and that everything is okay now and that it is free and that it means justice and that it has been a terrible injustice. All of this can really happen. Yes, you can. But it hasn't. Predicting and being all-knowing and all-knowing, just as some here like to explain a lot, it just doesn't work. Yes, it's up to the majority in the National Assembly. And this eternity has allowed us to talk about this today for the fourth time. Therefore, it is not only the SDS that is responsible here, which proposes the venom and, again, the same candidate, but the coalition. In the Alliance, we proposed to amend the law on what one of the predecessors had said, that a way should be found to elect and reach this commission individually. You said in the National Assembly that we don't need this because the law is good because it is effective and allows us to get to this commission. Today, along the halls of Parliament, they have been saying that this path will be chosen by the Commission. Whether it will be true or not, I don't know if it will be a sad day for Parliament, because it will really violate one of the fundamental principles, and that is, at least we should have it, that a lawfully convicted Member cannot be on such a committee. In some normal situations, we'd probably all be in favor, but now we're all on trial together. What is still important to all of us when we decide on such things is that we must always have one thing in front of us, not the Member of Janez Janša, but anyone in this House, any of us, too, can find myself in the exact same place tomorrow, in the same situation, but I believe that not in this content, because I do not know about it or deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u257	Presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u258	I'm gonna get everybody a nice round of greetings again! The question of who controls supervisors is the fundamental issue of democracy since the concept of democracy exists. Sometimes those on whom this control depends are not even aware of it, as are those who are then under control. Therefore, I would particularly like to draw your attention to the words of the newly appointed, already at the time of this coalition of the newly appointed leader of the largest security and intelligence service in Slovenia, who warned himself at the meeting of the commission, I quote, "Nothing can replace parliamentary supervision." The current situation, when parliamentary supervision is not in place because of the absence of a commission, is in fact twice as bad. It is bad for democracy, it is bad for a legal order that is not respected, and it is bad for these services themselves, at least for those responsible people in them who are aware that the current situation raises great doubts about their own functioning. And this is certainly not good, not for the people who work in them, and not for the system itself. The theme of democracy, which has been going on for five months now, that the Commission on Security and Intelligence is not appointed, is, in fact, sometimes the result of misunderstandings and human rights violations. But this is the last time we've talked about this, so let me draw your attention to the misunderstanding. Look, after these discussions, it should be known to everyone that if the service has an assessment, not only as it was said earlier, if it is itself, but if it considers that anyone on the board who exercises control could misuse the data obtained, the service itself has the right not to allow such control at all, not only to this person, but not to allow it at all. That is to say, this fuse itself is so powerful that such abuses as have been here many times can never occur. The previous guardian, who is also within the law and may not be understood in this way, is already in the composition of the supervisory commission, which must be composed of both the position and the opposition in the letter of the regulation. And so if consensus is not reached, if, for example, one estimates that there could be errors, abuses, whatever else, the commission cannot be formed and there can be no such control at all. So we have two-stage security guards, of which each of us, and especially the one who gives these powers to the service itself, prevents any abuse, of which there have been so many speeches and hints at the meetings of the working bodies and of the National Assembly itself. Therefore, the only relevant question is why this Commission is still not called. They're warning themselves. Once again, I say they need it. "Nothing can replace parliamentary supervision," the Director said at a meeting of the Commission. In fact, even when it has been offered for some time as an alternative, I don't know, or whatever, a bad substitute, that is, the supervision by the Ombudsman is not the same, because he is limited to his system by the powers of the Ombudsman alone and exclusively to his field of work, but he cannot, however, be substantive in this sense when he can do so under the laws or regulations of the State of Slovenia, the Parliamentary Commission. Today, we ourselves — in a way symbolically — have addressed one area that is extremely tender. These are the issues of the country's terrorist threat, where, in fact, it is a good operation, a coordinated operation, a quality function and also the legitimate functioning of these services as a fundamental condition for the security of all, including for the freedom of all. That's why he's really going. This is why it is an opportunity today to regulate these things, to conclude that the Commission can start its work and thus allow everything in this area to be in line with the Constitution and the laws of the State of Slovenia. We will, of course, vote in favour in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u259	Presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, good evening! I don't know what to say, but I have to say this, because it's important because of the people I represent, and because of the people we represent the Social Democrats, it's important to say clearly and unequivocally. The Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Intelligence and Security Services provides, respected, for the National Assembly to establish a special commission of inquiry which oversees the functioning or activity of intelligence services. That's one. Members of the Commission shall, on behalf and in the interest of citizens, carry out a very responsible task, as they shall, for the first time, monitor the legality of the operation of the intelligence services, in particular in the light of protection against unjustified interference with human rights. In their work, members of the Parliamentary Commission are often particularly familiar with many confidential and, in particular, sensitive information or data of a secret nature and consequently require an appropriate level of protection. Therefore, according to the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, it is still important that individual members as well as the Commission fully – but fully – enjoy a sufficiently public supporter of such a level of trust that gives the Commission the necessary legitimacy. This composition does not allow this. As a result of this, we believe that the appointment of a parliamentary commission with such a composition would be a poor journey for its work, so we will not support these commissions in such a composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u261	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, United Left, prepare Mr Matjaž Han, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. There's probably some mistake in communicating our expertise, but still, I'm just gonna start. In the meantime, when I was outside, it probably did not go into the magnetogram, my colleague, Eva Irgl, said that I was being monitored, and I will touch it procedurally later. My colleague Han has already taken the initiative to keep the Commission on guard over two important matters, that such authorities as each country has are legally operational and that the infringements are not unjustifiable, in short, not exceeding those powers. I am old enough to know what was going on in 1993, 1994, the late gentleman was the Prime Minister, the gentleman was the Minister of Defence, the gentleman was the Minister of Interior, there is a pear, there is one you, there is a small war between civil and military service that happened then, there is some criminal investigation that was stopped because it was about the deceased, all well decided that the investigation would not go forward. Well, colleague Vinko here is acting as a leading expert in this area, and colleague Bojan can tell me that we have always had some problems with these services from time to time and we are smiling ourselves and we are not a worthy country in this area. A van of some kind that's hiding somewhere, some hidden apartment kind of gives itself up and so on. There is an area that even the Duck is not cynical about now – my colleague Irgle laughs at me – because it is a matter of serious concern, when the lives of people working in such services are also at stake. And this charade that we've been following for the fourth, fifth month almost shows that, unlike me, you're obviously not serious about things we shouldn't be being unrealistic about. Some solutions were proposed to get us out of this mess. I agree with my colleague Janie, who is not currently in there, that there is some shared responsibility both on the coalition and on the biggest opposition party. But well, you want to push this charade forward and we'll obviously push it forward. Of course you'll say we're speaking to Janez Janša. Look, I can honestly say, I don't even know Janez Janša, all I know about Janez Janša is that when I greet him in the hallway, that he doesn't heal, that's all I know about Janez Janša. I'm talking about some principled matters. 82nd Article of the Constitution says, "I will not repeat it again, "the messenger of the whole people," which means "know what that means?" [[…]] That I, too, am a representative of all of you, and vice versa, all of my representatives, including some gentleman who is legally convicted. And I, as a Maribor man, have a crazy problem with it, but if I were in this position, in this position, in this state, in this legal state, it would whisper that it would probably take this roof down. I am only in criminal proceedings – indeed, colleague Irgle, I have been summoned to court. I'm not hiding. I'll check in in Maribor on January 20th. Then you will answer some questions procedurally. I will vote against, of course. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u263	I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Procedurally according to what? [[advertising from the hall]] The statement was not given about who, so please, I listen procedurally because I have to listen to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u264	My colleague said that I was being supervised, so I would ask that the meeting be suspended for half an hour and that my colleague will give me in writing where she has this information, how I'm being controlled, why I'm being controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u265	Procedurally, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u266	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Trček, first of all, I did not say anything at this meeting because I did not speak at all. And secondly, the fact that you're being controlled, you explained yourself about two months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u267	I will no longer allow procedural matters that have nothing to do with this meeting. But I'm gonna stop this session so you can calm down. We have reached the conclusion of the debate. In doing so, I must inform you that, pursuant to Article 10(2) of the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services, a decision will be taken if the majority of Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Members, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u268	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In today's vote, we are certainly faced with a new fact, in fact and with the fact that the Constitutional Court has held back the implementation of the conclusion of the National Assembly on the termination of the term of office of a Member who is a member or a member of that Commission, of the fact that the Constitutional Court has suspended the enforcement of the judicial judgment which was the basis for that decision and has also decided and said that, on the basis of this legal judgment, no new legal effect can arise. The rule of law is one of the basic starting points that our party has written in its programme, which means that we Members respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, even though these are contrary to our views and our beliefs. Members of the SMC Group will support the proposed proposal in spirit with their conscience, which respects the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u269	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 13. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election in court, to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Krske. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election of Masha Jura to the judicial office of the District Court in Krske. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Therefore, we do not have a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk about it? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it, there will be no debate and we will move on to a vote. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Maša Jura to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Krske. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the third session of the National Assembly.
