ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I am opening the 59th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mr Andrej Chus, Mr Jakob Preseknik by 2 p.m. and Mr Bojan Starman. I also invited representatives of the government to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 59th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 28 March 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. Therefore, I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Before doing so, I ask you to check the functioning of the voting devices. Is everything okay with the voicemails? We can vote. We decide on [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Check the voting devices, just in peace. We decide on the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 59th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the schedule of the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archivic Buildings and Archive. As representative of more than 40,000 voters and voters, Eva Irgl submitted a request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives on 25 March 2014. With regard to this request, we will consider the proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on that law, which has been drawn up and submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Culture. Before I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Tanko has a request for a procedural proposal. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! On 25 March, Ms Eva Irgl, first-signed and co-signed Member of the National Assembly, submitted a request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. This request was also accompanied by the signatures and the Proposal for a Decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. In the work of the Committee on Culture, which considered this proposal, something has happened that should not have happened in a normal country. The coalition majority, including the chairman of the committee, Mrs Majdo Potrato, has found that Eva Irgle is not a Member and has not proposed the matter as a Member, but as something else. I also later drew attention to the College of the President of the National Assembly and asked for an explanation of how it could be that Mrs Eva Irgle, who was also first signed under this request, did not have the status of a Member at some point in time, the few seconds after this request was submitted. I did not get a concrete and appropriate explanation. And given the way in which you have placed the item on the agenda and what has happened on the Committee on Culture, I can only regret to find that Mrs Majda Potrate, President of the Committee on Culture and her coalition majority, have allowed themselves to steal the proposal at this point of the agenda. With this manoeuvre you have made, you have stolen a proposal from this agenda item, the first to be signed under a request for a referendum and the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Evi Irgl. If Mrs Eva Irgl does not have a Member's status at this point of the agenda, she will also have a difficult position and difficult to vote on the agenda. Interestingly, though, he did not explain why this occurred at a very short time interval. That is why I think, Mr President, that before the beginning of the first item of the agenda, we must first find out if Eva Irgle, who is the first to be signed and, in my opinion, still a member of the National Assembly who has submitted the request with her permanent residence, meets the criteria for the exercise of her post. Secondly, if it fulfils them, we need to find out why it has been prevented in this particular case to act as a candidate for the request for a referendum and to present a decree at this meeting of the National Assembly. That's how we discuss stealing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u3	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Matjaž Han, who has applied for a procedural proposal, I am obliged to provide an explanation. There is absolutely no way that we can talk about the idea of stealing a motion. The fact is that Mrs Eva Irgl, as representative of more than 40,000 voters and voters, has submitted a request for a legislative referendum, and the fact is that if I wanted to make a decree in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the invitation to a legislative referendum, I could do so with a special letter as a Member, and I have also specifically pointed out to the College. This was not done, so the procedure continued in accordance with the Rules of Procedure so that a decision was drawn up by the Committee, which is also responsible for the submission of the decision to the General Assembly. It is therefore more of a kind of carelessness at a time when this act is put into the procedure. However, the fact is that, of course, Mrs Eva Irgl is an indisputable Member and will be able to decide today, there is no doubt here, but in this case, she should send an act into the procedure by special letter, which of course was not done. However, we have talked a lot about this issue in college, and I believe that this issue has also been dealt with by the Committee, so today we have a decree on the agenda prepared by the Committee. Matjaž Han also wants to do the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I know this is an important matter, I expect mainly from you, President, that you will follow the rules of procedure at this meeting. I also expect you, Mr Tanko, to stop such performances. Why? I object to Mr Jože Tanko talking about Mrs Majda Potrat, the president of the Committee on Culture, stealing – stole, he said literally stole – the motion for this decree. First time. If Mr Tanko so thinks, all legal remedies can be used and, last but not least, the Constitutional Court can be judged. You know that, and we know how to do that, and the constitutional court that I respect will determine who's right about this. Another time. It is true that Mrs Eva Irgl is a Member, but she is also a citizen, and in Article 169a, she spells out exactly who the drafter of the decree can be. If Mrs Eva Irgl had signed as a member, she would have been a member of Parliament. However, since Mrs Eva Irgl – now you have probably overlooked – has signed as Eva Irgl, a citizen, it is impossible that she could, as you have rightly established, be a proponent. That's why I'm not gonna let anyone in the National Assembly talk about stealing anything. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] It's true. Thank you very much. It's just a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's a... it's But if you think it can be different and you can win, go to the Constitutional Court. And I believe, given how recently the Constitutional Court has decided that this matter will be taken quickly and decided quickly. I would therefore suggest that we stick to the rules of procedure today in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u5	Thank you. Otherwise, I thought I was clear enough that the term that was used was not appropriate. In my opinion, too, this is indeed a matter of carelessness in the investment of these acts. However, the fact is that today we have a decree on the agenda and that the committee is the one that drafted this decree and, as Mr Han suggested, if there is any opposition to this position, then legal options are also given in other instances. Today, the National Assembly will no longer be able to change that. Mr Jože Tanko has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm asking for an explanation. Is the function separate from my name in the National Assembly? I'm Jože Tanko, Member of Parliament, am I just Joze Tanko or am I just an MP? The moment a Member appears in the National Assembly with a document, he shall act as a Member, who shall also be the first to be signed under a request. This doesn't completely change any fact. Eva Irgl did not apply for a referendum with the accompanying signatures and decrees to the pastry shop, but to the main office of the National Assembly. And if there is a comma and a messenger next to the name, or if there is no comma and a messenger, he is a Member, in any case, because the function is not separate. When we give a mandate to a Member, he shall act as a Member of the National Assembly. What you have enjoyed on the committee is the place of the proposal to the person who has met the conditions for the referendum, to the one who has attached the signatures to this request to the National Assembly and to the one who has also submitted the motion for a decree. What Mrs Potrat did on the committee when she proposed a decision without justification is top manipulation, unprecedented superficiality and shows what interest the coalition has in addressing this item on the agenda. It has used all the mechanisms of the majority to abuse the Rules of Procedure and has achieved that it has given a lecture on the proposal on the request for a referendum. Majda Potrat, who had absolutely nothing to do with this point. Nothing! She didn't submit anything. If submitted, it submitted too late because it was first submitted. And no one in the services of the National Assembly, Mr President, has warned you or anyone else that it is with the matter in question as regards the submission of the decree, anything wrong. No one warned. And you are now discussing, Mr President, how these conditions could be met. Provide guidance on how to proceed when a Member who is first signed under a request for a referendum submits a request and submits a decision. Is there a directive in the National Assembly or not? Is there a rule of order in this sense? No! No! This is merely a manipulative interpretation of the services of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly and Mrs Pate that you stole the agenda item from the section concerning the applicant. And this is unworthy of what happened when this item was discussed and what is likely to continue to happen when we analyze those 6 or 7 hours of debate on it. I suggest you do what you should do as President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u7	Mr Tanko, once again, I ask you not to use terms such as theft, because this is not really the case. But if you insist on this, in the future I will give you a warning and take away your word if I remind you twice of this subject. Once again, I must make it very clear that Mrs Eva Irgl has submitted a request for a legislative referendum as one of 40,000 voters and voters. For this request, Mr. Tanko, it is very clear [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] It is very clear that only voters and voters can submit this request. Members of the request for a referendum amending the Constitution can no longer be submitted. We have accepted this in this mandate and there is no need for further clarification. I said, however, that if Mrs Eva Irgl wished to submit a decree as a Member, she could present it as Mrs Eva Irgl. She didn't do it. And it's a mistake that's happened. And by no means can you blame others for this mistake, but even less so can you accuse them of stealing or anything like that. I propose that we put an end to such warnings, which are totally unfounded, because the rules, how we must deal with the call for a referendum and who is the one who can put the act into the procedure is very clear. There's no doubt here. Mr. Han, did you want the procedure? You're giving up? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Pukšič, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u8	Mr. President, thank you very much. Article 169a, mentioned by colleague Han, states: “Decision, resolution, declaration, recommendation and decision may, unless otherwise provided by law, by law or by this Rules of Procedure, be proposed by any Member, homework body or government.” Mr President of the National Assembly, for the fifth time, I recall that, after the election and confirmation of the mandates of the National Assembly, we have received a certificate from Members and Members of Parliament on the election of a Member signed by the President of the National Assembly. This has also been the case since then, with the signature of the President of the National Assembly, MEP 365 days and 24 hours a day, until the end of her term of office, which will end with a new election. Eva Irgle was an emissary. Mr President, there is no record in the Rules of Procedure that we should do anything about a special letter. We've already put stories with some special letters through in another case. We've already taken this lesson. There is no need for you to interpret the Rules of Procedure this time because the Rules of Procedure are perfectly clear. Ms Eva Irgl has been a Member since she was confirmed as a Member of the National Assembly. Of course, this was further confirmed and formalized by a certificate given to it and signed by the President of the National Assembly — someone else then — and that is enough. It's in the archives of the National Assembly. This is a clear document and it probably doesn't have to be written specifically: "I, signed Eva Irgle, born, resident, went to elementary school" and I don't know what else, "I'm investing this and that, at this point as a Member." Mr President, of course you are here explaining the rules of procedure, but I think you are misinterpreting it and it is not correct and it is not fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I don't think it can be explained any differently than you read it, Mr Pukšič, and that's exactly what I said. Mr Han also has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Since we have the President of the Parliamentary Committee on Rules of Procedure, who has now told us everything and it is clear to us — I, Mr Franci, there is nothing clear — I propose that, despite the discussions that are likely to open, we invite the Legislative and Legal Service to the Chamber to explain who is in a position to invest and who should not invest, when a Member is in a Member and when an ordinary citizen, even though we have this clearly written down.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr Han, but in this case the legal and legal service will not help us in any way, because the legislation and the constitution are very clear. We have changed the Constitution so that only voters and voters can apply for the referendum. Even if there is an attached decree, as in this case, we cannot consider it to be a decision by the Member because it is a request made by 40,000 or more voters. In fact, it is not possible to take this decision into account, so we have followed the rules of procedure as read by Mr Pukšič, where the decree can be imposed only by a Member or a Member, a Working Body or a Government. This is very clear and I don't think there's any explanation necessary here. So I suggest we move on to the ruling. Mr Tanko, you insist on this, but I tell you that if you stay on the same proposal, it actually doesn't make any sense or it's a delay. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a decree in front of me that says, "Working material for my mother's working body." Someone put this on the working body and it's not signed. No Member or Member has been signed under this document, but has been accepted as the basis for deciding when the referendum will be called. What about when an anonymous matter came to the meeting of the working body, without a name or surname, without a Member or anything? Can't Eva Irgle suggest that? It has been signed and has the status of a Member. He has MP status. It fulfils the conditions of an active electoral right and is therefore the first to be signed under a request for a referendum, and the second part of a passive electoral right has been realized because it has been elected as a Member. In the case of this material presented as working material by Mrs Majda Potrate, there is no signature and no explanation is twice printed on the same page. And that, Mr President, is the manipulation that has been carried out on the Committee on Culture to abuse the parliamentary function, because this has been proposed anonymously. The double criteria in this case are therefore more than obvious. Who is the signatory of this Decision to the Committee on Culture, which is the basis for decision-making? Nobody. Someone framed this to the working body with the knowledge of the chair of this working body, who has now been given the job of proposing a agenda item for the prize. And that's the manipulation that's happened too many times in this term in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. I suggest you really avoid an expression like manipulation and the like. The paper you had in your hand was the basis for the decision taken by the working body. We have explained to you earlier that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the working body is the one which may propose to the National Assembly a decree. It's unsigned because it's a piece of work for the department. The Committee adopted this and, at the time of its adoption, it is an act of the Committee. That's what this is about. If the chairman of the committee had made this decision on her own behalf, we would have decided today on a decision by the mag. Majda Potter. She did not want to do this because it was the responsibility of the committee and it was only working material that the committee could adopt a decree which is now in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly. Therefore, I strongly reject any claim that this is a matter of manipulation. It is a matter of respect for the Rules of Procedure and procedure which is very clear in the National Assembly. You want procedural, mag. Maja Potter? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u14	I would like to point out that those who say that anything has been breached by the Rules of Procedure should take a look at the reference to the 10th urgent meeting of the Committee, in which it spells out exactly "Working material: Proposal for a Decree of 26. 3. 2014 is published on the website of the National Assembly with reference." Nothing was planted, it was predicted as working material. And when I realized that there had been an error in the reproduction of the sheet material and that there was only a decree printed on both sides, I made sure that Members and Members had received the corrected material – on the first page a motion for a decree and on the other hand a proposal for an explanation. I have also prepared and signed such material as the President. What was going on here was beyond me, but I did not do what the SDS member did on the committee, when, as a proposal for an amendment for a date to be adopted by the local elections, he handed me a letter proposing two amendments, on which the assembly had already voted and rejected them. If anyone tried to fool the board, it was someone else. And thank you for being able to explain the procedure, because there is a lot of manipulation, and because the performance for the public at the end of the board meeting, it was not possible to give others an accurate view of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer also has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u16	Dear President, one of your powers is also to determine who is abusing the procedure. And on this issue, which is now being misused within the procedure, it is really possible to explain everything within the debate when we talk about the decision. This play that Mr Tanko has allowed himself to ask us all here whether he is a Member or not. I already explained to him at the College that it was unworthy to do something he had already done in the past when he asked Ambassador Melito Župevc if she really signed under the document and demanded all possible professional contributions to verify that she had signed herself, even though she had ensured that she had signed herself. And then he didn't even believe her that she signed and he wanted to see if it was her signature or not. And he's showing the same show today when he's asking if he's really a Member 365 days a year, 24 hours a day, and sees if we can figure it out here or not. This is a complete farce, so I think, Mr President, it's about time you found out in the procedure and you're not giving him a procedure for the second time if you see that he's brought you around for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u17	Thank you. We are moving on to a further explanation of the proposal for a decree. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Chairman of the committee mag. Majdi Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! At its 10th urgent meeting on 27 March 2014, the Committee of Culture considered the requirement of more than 40,000 voters and voters for the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, and adopted, on the basis of Article 169a and Article 171a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. This adopted proposal was also sent by the Committee for consideration by the National Assembly. Explanation. On 26 March 2014, more than 40,000 voters and voters submitted to the National Assembly a request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 28 January 2014. On the basis of Article 22, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the National Assembly shall hold a referendum within seven days of the submission of the request for a referendum. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the Act on the Call for Referendum sets out the type of referendum, the act to be decided at the referendum, the text of the question to be raised at the referendum, the date of the referendum and the day of the vote at the referendum. In accordance with Article 33 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative from the date of the call, that is, from 3 April 2014 until the date of the vote shall not exceed 30 days and not more than one year. The date of the vote, until which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. In view of the above, the National Assembly, by a simple majority, may decide, for the day of the vote, to be at least 30 days and a maximum of 45 days from the date of the call for a referendum. On this basis, the voting day shall be Sunday, 4 May 2014. The Act of Call for Referendum shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u19	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I am speaking to the Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members! Let me begin by making clear my respect for the unequivocal will of the people, supported by more than 46,000 signatures, which wishes to assess the novelity of the archival law at a referendum, one of the highest expressions of human sovereignty and the highest form of direct democracy. This will is our duty to take as seriously as possible. Let this fact guide us. Let me further explain why the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism of 2009, which is often referred to by the initiators of the referendum, is one of the most important arguments for separate votes. The resolution between the introductory provisions, i.e. between the ABC, states, inter alia, that "no political authority or political party has the exclusive right to interpret history," as it further explains that "these authorities and parties cannot claim to be objective." The resolution goes on to say that "official political explanations of historical facts should not be imposed by majority decisions in Parliament." And most importantly, the topic of opening archives, especially when it comes to those secret security services of the former totalitarian regimes, must not be misused for political purposes. By unbundling the vote on the amendment of the archival law and the elections of Slovenian representatives to the European Parliament, you can ensure that the principles of the resolution are put into practice, not only in the form of declarations. Why is this so important right now? With this reference to the referendum on the implementation of the amendment of the archival law, the honourable Member and Members, for the first time after the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, you are beginning to establish important constitutional and parliamentary practice. The practice, which must be designed in such a way that it does not allow even a little doubt as to what Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens actually think about the law that is the subject of the referendum. Every law that manages to trigger the engagement of at least 40,000 voters and voters is worth more than the attention it deserves to be given to public hearing. Otherwise, the content of the referendum is more of a subtitle for pre-election slogans, just in case people may already be satisfied with political promises. The monitoring and decision-making of elections and voters on the gravity of the arguments for or against changes into spending the remainder of the time in pre-election campaigns, and the pre-election campaigns themselves can look forward to a new indirect source of funding from the money for referendums and campaigns. Yesterday's involvement of SDS candidates in elections to the European Parliament, Dr Milan Zver, further confirms the fact that the initiators of the referendum do not understand the best difference between pre-election political agitation on the one hand and the argumented debate on whether or not any legal solutions are appropriate. And today you can stop this practice. The debate so far on the amendment of the archival law is, in itself, sufficient proof that people must devote themselves to this topic in full. It turns out that this is a very difficult topic, which cannot be resolved by flat-rate arguments, but an in-depth discussion is needed to highlight all the details. Moreover, the public debates of some users of archival material have shown another very worrying fact: that in current practice the law has not been consistently respected, which is least worrying. The current law has been bypassed by various instructions, statements concerning the use of sensitive personal data and even with permanent permits, which is not the basis of the law. All of this needs to be addressed seriously, through an argumented debate, without posters and so on. Members and Members of the Commission [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in the first kinds of people who take direct democracy for real. [[…]] Not because someone has to eat what they've cooked, but because it's the right thing to do. Since the referendum cannot and cannot be an appropriate tool of any political option to try to unify its electoral body and perhaps to obtain another support ally from the next sex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u21	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Kavticnik will present the position of the Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u22	Honourable Minister with a team, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! More than 40,000 electorates and voters have expressed their unequivocal will to enforce the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives to verify at the referendum, which is the highest form of direct democracy. From the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum, we will decide at the referendum on 4 May this year. It is right that archives and archival materials, which represent an important legal and cultural monument of each nation and country, are being discussed separately, but not that the debate on this should be accompanied by a campaign for European elections as a less important topic. Members of the Ambassadorial Group of Positive Slovenia believe that this would be a cheap political issue. As is known, some regions or municipalities would like local referendums at that time, and we know what would happen and what intertwining different content could lead to this. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, the SDS Group's amendments showed its intention to abuse the SDS Institute of Referendum to seek out topics for European elections. They also refer to European values and the European Parliament's Resolution on the European consciousness of totalitarianism all the time, and they easily silence the part of the resolution that prohibits the misuse of archives for political purposes. We certainly cannot hold a referendum on the day of the European elections, as the SDS cannot convince the two-thirds majority of Members present, i.e. a sufficient number of Members. We have called on the SDS to withdraw the request for a referendum, as we are convinced that for the future of the archives, for modern, orderly and accessible archives, we can only do the most with increased investments in the archive infrastructure and the consistent implementation of the digitalisation strategy of the archives. As no withdrawal occurred, they also bear responsibility in the SDS for the costs of the referendum. The Ombudsman also notes that the current Law on Archives in practice is not respected as it is written. The Ombudsman therefore called the announced referendum on the amendment of the archival law in terms of constitutionally guaranteed human rights and respect for the rule of law absolutely unnecessary. It was also considered unnecessary by the information officer, since it is more appropriately and constitutionally regulated by the access to archival material. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia will be supported by the decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives which provide for the vote on 4 May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u23	Thank you. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u24	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! What I announced on the first day of collecting signatures was that we would collect not only 40,000 signatures at the time of the statutory deadline, as stipulated by the law, but significantly more. From 13 February to 19 March, 46 thousand 730 support for the referendum against the closing of the Udba archives was collected in administrative units. Such a response of people just adds to the fact that we did the right thing after the Ministry of Culture in the National Assembly introduced a new law on archival materials, and the coalition, together with NSI, confirmed the amendment, started collecting signatures against closing the archives of the Udba. To all those of you who have given up your signature, I sincerely thank you from this place. More than 46,000 signed under the referendum initiative are a clear signal that people are very well aware of the importance of allowing researchers, historians and publicists free access to archives, so that they can evaluate the historical period in an integrated manner based on archival material and can explore our half-time history, which holds much to date also deliberately silenced [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u25	Mrs Irgle [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u26	facts [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u27	Allow me to warn you that we are not discussing the content of the law today, but the resolution on the invitation to referenda on this law, and I ask you to take this into account in your performance. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u28	Mr President, yesterday, the President of the Government, instead of talking about the interpretation of everything else, even the real estate tax, you did not warn her with any interruption that we should discuss the interpretation. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and today, the Minister himself also opened a substantive debate on the Law on archival materials and archives. So far, I have not spoken to a single sentence about the Law on archival materials and archives or the novel, but I just want to show the whole context that needs to be understood if we want to understand the invitation to a legislative referendum. And last of all, if you're preventing me from speaking here, you're also preventing more than 46,000 signed under the referendum so that they can express their will. So I would ask you to allow me to explain my position to the end. That they must [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u29	In doing so, I really warn you, Mrs Eva Irgle, to take note of the warning and not to talk about the content. [[…]] The National Assembly will certainly respect the requirement of electorates and voters, and I think it is true to expect a unanimous decision to support the decision. However, we have already discussed the contents, so please take this into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u30	Mr President, I am not talking about the content of the amendment of the law, but about the context that is necessary to understand the requirement of the referendum call. And please allow me to explain these circumstances. Let me get on with it. That the archives should remain open, we are also reminded by the European Parliament resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which already has been referred to by the distinguished Minister Mr Grilc, who has not been interrupted, which calls on all the Member States of the European Union to do everything in their power to actually do so. We are also encouraged by the Platform for European Remembrance and Consciousness, which, some time ago, addressed the letter to the Minister of Culture to direct his full powers to the openness and not the closure of the archive material. Each nation is obliged to know its past if it is still so painful and burdensome for an individual. The sooner we as a nation throw away the pinnacles of the past that bind us, the sooner we can breathe freely and unburdenedly. Blinding and deceiving society, that the unresolved past has no bearing on the present and the future, is stubborn persistence, which unfortunately leads us in the wrong direction and as a society is poor and divided. Former German President Wulf recently, I think in 2011, at the opening of a new exhibition on the infamous German secret political police Stasi – which was what the State Security Service or Uba – said was a revelation about dealing with the past among the greatest achievements of our political culture. Slovenian policy has not yet been able to step together in this respect and overcome party divisions in order to deal openly with the past, but this step will also have to be taken. If the issue of relation to the past and thus to the archival material were irrelevant, as the coalition MPs would like to point out above all, then I do not know why the Ministry is [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u31	Mrs. Eva Irgle, look. I have patiently tried to wait for you to respect my warnings. I have reminded you twice that you are talking about the content of the law and not about when the referendum will be, when will the day of the call be, when will the day of the vote be.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u32	I'll get to that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u33	You're talking about content. Because you disobeyed my instructions, I'm going to take your word for it. Mrs Eva Irgle, I do not think that you agree and object that I have taken your word when you stay behind the speaker's desk and continue to speak. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 78 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, your objection may be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. I suggest you go to your seat, because I will put your objection to the vote if your word is taken away from you or not. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, look, I think that this is an objection to my decision on your part, that you disagree with the withdrawal of the word, and the Rules of Procedure say that if you do not agree to it, the National Assembly may decide on this without discussion. And I think it's more useful for the National Assembly to decide whether or not to turn on your microphone. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Eva Irgle, look, let's make a deal. Or rather, it's impossible to make a deal here. The meeting shall be chaired by me and, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 78 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, shall be put to the vote by your opposition that you do not agree with the withdrawal of the word. If the National Assembly decides otherwise [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] So once again, there will be no confusion. I am putting Mrs Eve Irgle's objections to my decision to take her word away from the National Assembly. If you decide to do so, then support the objection. If you vote against it, Mrs Eva Irgle won't have a word. Is that clear? [[adverts from benches]] Not at this stage. I put to the vote this procedural proposal. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 52 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 41. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 41.]] The National Assembly has not supported your objection, Mrs Eva Irgle, so please stop the debate. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First time. I don't know how you explained this to yourself, but I didn't hear this motion. No one heard him. And now it is up to you to decide that the Member of Parliament has proposed this. This has not been expressed, and I would kindly ask you to do what is normal, so that the Member in the microphone can say what he means to say, even if it is a procedural proposal. In this case, he wasn't there. And now you've done one anonymous construct again, just like all this archive stuff, and you've drawn some conclusions from it. That's incorrect. Another time. Mr President, in his performance, the Minister made a psychoanalysis of the signatories, talked about the political parties' bodies, talked about the European Parliament's resolution, and you haven't even flinched once during his debate. Not a word. Such unprofessional leadership of the National Assembly as you have enjoyed it today is an unprecedented precedent. The Minister spoke about everything else, the political parties' bodies, the European Parliament's resolution, Dr. Beast and his letter to the President of the Republic. What Mr Beast has understood, what the signatories understand about this matter and more. Not a word. This biased leadership of the National Assembly does not lead anywhere, Mr President. In addition to stealing the agenda item during the drafting phase. The theft of your Group of Members and your Members by manipulation and your interpretation. This means that this item of the agenda is being addressed in order to manipulate the leadership of the National Assembly and the coalition in the National Assembly. The interests of the coalition in addressing this point and in impeding opposition Members are therefore practically complete. Mr President, I propose that you withdraw what you have voted on because this proposal was not formally available. Mrs Eva Irgle could not make the proposal because you turned off her microphone and if she wants you to define it as her procedural proposal, then you have to turn on her microphone. But not to hold a session as if it spoke from the dungeon out and then you interpret it to the Slovenian public as a fact of God. Unfortunately, you're acting too arrogant in this National Assembly. You are a coalition and you have a majority, but the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not allow such interpretations and such arrogance to anyone. I suggest that you let him speak his speech to the end, from where you interrupted it and turned it off, and then sit down, call the colleges, and we will discuss further action.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. I would like to point out once again that, at the outset, I have given a reminder that the content that does not relate to this decree has been discussed immediately, and Mrs Eva Irgl has not left the speaker since I turned off the microphone, which is a very clear demonstration that she does not agree with and object to my proposal not to follow the Rules of Procedure and not to speak of the topic on the agenda. So this is totally indisputable. The decision of the National Assembly was also very clear, so I propose that we end this debate, which was actually defined by the National Assembly by the vote. Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally, please. [[adverts from benches]] I'm sorry. I got a warning. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u37	Mr Tanko, I apologize, but I am reminded that Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has first notified herself of the procedural proposal. Allow me to make a procedural proposal to her first. Here you go, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say that Mrs Eva Irgl, by means of a final act, expressed her position not to adopt the decision of the President of the National Assembly. I propose, Mr President, that we proceed as you have decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, if you used Article 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the alleged disciplinary offence of our fellow Member Eva Irgl and gave her an unjustified warning first, then you have unjustifiably taken away her word, I suggest that you read the third indent. It says you can remove it unjustifiably from the session or from the meeting. Don't hide behind procedural suggestions. Unjustifiedly carry out that third stage of the procedure that speaks of a violation of the agenda. It will only be difficult for your colleague, Eva Irgl, to impose a violation of the agenda because it is a very peaceful position of the Group of Members. If you remove it from the box in the position of the Group of Members, you will remove the Group of Members from the National Assembly. This is the measure that follows from this. Therefore, I suggest that you take the meeting to the end, allow it to present its position, that others also present their views, and then, if you want to change the way in which the meeting is conducted, I suggest you convene a college and discuss how and what to do. Before that, I would suggest that you print out the Minister's magnetogram and distribute it to the Members to discuss whether the Minister has done something wrong. That a minister who comes to the National Assembly tells Members what our profile is, what we mean by it and what we did not mean is unworthy. This is unworthy, Mr President, but you haven't had one word of it. Therefore, I propose that Eva Irgl continue to take a position from where you interrupted it and say to the end the position of the Group of Members, that others say so, and you have to keep to all those who speak in this National Assembly, the same criteria and the same vats. Mr Kavticnik also spoke about a resolution of the European Parliament, which has no connection with the date of the referendum. None. Minister Grilc also spoke about the European Parliament's resolution and the political parties' bodies, which had nothing to do with it. There is absolutely no connection, but if you let some of the government's representatives talk and let no one else do anything, then you have to ask yourself whether the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are the same or not. What happens to this agenda item goes beyond all limits. First the theft, then the obstruction of the debate in the presentation of the position, because we do not know what will be waiting for us all until the end of this meeting. I suggest you take the meeting away so we can at least tell you what we think about this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. There will be no particular doubt as to who has spoken, I interrupt the meeting and invite the leaders of the parliamentary groups to meet us in room 217 in five minutes. We'll continue the meeting at 2 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u42	Dear Members and Members! I'm informing you that we'll resume the session at 2.30 p.m. [[The meeting was suspended at 2.01 p.m. and resumed at 2.30 p.m.]] )
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that we have agreed, at the consultation with the heads of the parliamentary groups, that the views of the parliamentary groups can continue in the form they have been prepared and that the discussion below takes strictly into account the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is limited to Members and Members if they talk about the content of the law. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgl to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mrs. Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! What I announced on the first day of collecting signatures was that we would collect not only 40,000 signatures at the time of the statutory deadline, as stipulated by the law, but significantly more. From 13 February to 19 March 2014, 46 thousand 730 support for the referendum against the closure of the Udba archives was collected in administrative units. Such a response of people just adds to the fact that we did the right thing when the Ministry of Culture in the National Assembly introduced a new law on archival materials and the coalition confirmed it, and we began collecting signatures against closing the archives of the Udba. Thank you once again to all of you who have given your vote, including from this city. More than 46,000 signed under the referendum initiative are a clear signal that people are very well aware of the importance of allowing researchers, historians and publicists free access to archives, so that they can evaluate the historical period in an integrated manner based on the archive material and can explore our semi-existing history, which is still in the midst of much, and so far deliberately silenced facts. To keep the archives open, we are also reminded by the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which the Minister of Culture referred to in the introduction, which calls on all Member States of the European Union to do everything they can to make this happen. We are also encouraged to do so by the Platform for European Remembrance and Consciousness, which also addressed a letter to the Minister of Culture some time ago, to direct its full powers towards openness and not the closure of archival material. Each nation is obliged to know its past, even if it is so painful and burdensome for individuals. The sooner we as a nation throw away the bounds of the past that bind us, the sooner we can breathe freely and unburdenedly. Blinding and misleading society, which is often the case today, that the unresolved past has no bearing on the present and the future, is stubborn persistence, which unfortunately leads us in the wrong direction and makes us poor and divided as a society. Former German President Wulf not so long ago at the opening of the new exhibition on the infamous German secret political police Stasi – which was what the State Security Service or Udba had with us – said was an open encounter with the past among the greatest achievements of our political culture. Slovenian policy has not yet been able to come together in this respect, but it has not yet been able to overcome party divisions in order to deal openly with the past, but this step will also have to be taken. If the issue of the relationship to the past and thus the relation to the archival material were an irrelevant issue, then I do not know why the Ministry decided to make completely unnecessary changes to the Archive Material Act, since the people had clearly decided in 2011 at the referendum that they wanted to have the archives fully open. I submit that this was not an expert decision, but a political decision aimed at preventing researchers from further research, particularly those related to the duration of the State Security Service. Open and accessible archives are also important or mainly because of the historical truth that has been hidden and silenced for a long time. Recently, at my initiative at the Commission on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we discussed with the archival experts who were invited to the meeting about the unacceptable destruction of archival material, among which the largest was the case in 1990. These experts reiterated that approximately 80% of the so-called Udbov material was destroyed. Therefore, it is particularly important that we take care of the rest of the material and that we do our utmost to keep the archives fully available to the public. It is a national identity that all together are obliged to protect and preserve, not only because of legislation, but primarily because of future generations that have the right to know what the past of the nation is. It was inconceivable that so much archival material had been destroyed. A cultural genocide has been committed, and no one has ever been responsible, even though it should. The whole policy should be uniform in such matters as responsibility and condemnation of such behaviour. Unfortunately for us, part of the policy that today opposes the archive referendum with the support of the novel law, which completely closes the archival material, protects such conduct and those responsible for it. It is therefore not a coincidence that the Ministry of Culture in the National Assembly introduced a new law on archiving materials at a time when we open and disclose the criminal nature of the former State Security Service or the Udba on the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. When the killings to be carried out by the former secret political police, i.e. the State Security Service, under which Silva Gorenc and Janez Zemlarič were also to be signed, a new law was introduced into the National Assembly, which, in a perfidious way, due to long-term anonymisation procedures, which made the document no longer authentic and so disabled for the researcher, closes the archive material and thus prevents further detection of events from not so distant history. However, denying access to archive material in this case is nothing new. This has happened before, and more or less have always been the same actors, coming from the left side of the political options. Even when Mr Igor Omerza, secondly signed under the referendum initiative, started writing a book on Edward Kocbek and wanted to look at the archive material, it was immediately prevented and disabled. The same was true when he wanted to see microfilms in 1972 and 1975, and his access was unlawfully denied, even though it was legally his. It was his legal property. It is a constant and recurring denial of access to archival material, and the last of such obstacles is the amendment of the law, which will now go to the people's review of the referendum. It is more than obvious – proof of this is also restlessness – that everything will be done to prevent the discovery of the truth, but I stress that this will not deter us from finding the historical truth to stop. Only then is the power to reach a nation's reconciliation, which is key to a more stable present and future, both in a broader socio-political and economic context. Most of the countries that have cleared up the past today have stable economic conditions and good and brighter foundations for the future. Such a breakthrough, which does not mean renaissism, but only the truthfulness, respect and recognition of basic civilisation standards, to which a clear conviction of crimes and pieta to the dead belongs, will have to happen to us, and I am sure, or at least I hope that it is not so far away. For the second time, as the only political party, we have managed to collect over 40,000 signatures for the legislative referendum. For the first time, we succeeded in 1996 when we gathered them for a call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the majority electoral system. And the second time, we did it two weeks ago. Let me express here the surprise that the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary groups at the press conference have recently requested us to withdraw our signatures under the referendum initiative. And here I'm wondering publicly how you can even come up with such an idea to withdraw the clearly expressed will of the people. Only someone who does not respect the Constitution of guaranteed rights may require such a thing. On the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we have already seen that it is extremely difficult for coalition Members to vote on common human civilisation decisions. Today we can see that respect for and the right to a referendum is also a major problem, which is the highest form of democratic decision-making and also the greatest expression of direct democracy. Of course, we can also understand such initiatives in a way that when you have all the key monopolies under you, from media to economic and so on, then the expression of human will is unnecessary and is only in your way. This, of course, reminds us of some other times, and it would have been a time for the mental frameworks of the former and failed regime to be exceeded. Let me explain, first of all, under the referendum initiative, that if the Ministry of Culture did not introduce into the National Assembly a new law – which was absolutely unnecessary by the way, even if we knew that in 2011 the people at the referendum with 70.88% support had already decided that the archives should remain open – we would not be collecting signatures and would not be discussing the date of the referendum today. It is totally inappropriate and extremely misleading now to report to the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, as a responsible opposition, is just doing its job in these difficult times to deal with irrelevant things, as has recently been described by the Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc. Otherwise, we can all ask citizens and citizens together whether the question of historical truth, including the right to conduct, and the question of human dignity, which the amendment of the law to the equalization of victims and perpetrators of dupes and demeans, is really an insignificant topic? The new law on archival material was introduced into the National Assembly by the government, or the Ministry of Culture, and not by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and thus raised questions which were almost addressed by a plebiscite decision in 2011. All other variations on this subject are completely irrelevant, as it is now perfectly clear to everyone where the original sin occurred, and any responsible opposition must be reminded of the unacceptable solutions of the executive branch, which is also the main task of the opposition, especially if human rights are questioned, where the right to conduct undoubtedly also belongs. As the first to be signed under the referendum initiative, an electorate in this country, a citizen and also as a member of the National Assembly, although you have denied me this last time in the coalition for some time, I have submitted to the National Assembly a request for a legislative referendum on the Law on archival materials and a decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum, which I proposed on 15 April for the date of the call, and on 25 May for the day of the vote, that is, the day of the elections to the European Parliament in Slovenia. The most reasonable, the most rational, the most logical and even the most appropriate. All in order to minimise the costs of carrying out the referendum and to enable people to decide on a common day. However, the coalition has decided to play a different political game. At the time of the submission of the request and the decision, they decided that the decree, which I had also tabled as a Member and on behalf of more than 40 thousand signed, did not take into account and carried out over me some kind of mini lustration, as the president of the SDS Group, Mr Jože Tanko, made a graphic statement at the college. By not taking my proposal into account, although it has been fully implemented in accordance with the rules of procedure and legislation and established practice, you have not only manipulated me as the first to sign, but also more than 40,000 citizens and citizens who have signed their signatures on administrative units. Those who oppose the implementation of this referendum today set the date for its implementation, after extremely interestingly removing my request with an argument that the decision should be specifically and explicitly stated below that I am a member of the National Assembly. If it was indeed my key mistake to pass the decree along with the request and therefore my request was eliminated, then the services of the National Assembly should have warned me, but they did not. Why not? The opponents of the referendum themselves set the date of the referendum on 4 May. This also, of course, assumes responsibility for the significantly higher costs of holding the referendum, but also assumes responsibility for citizens having to go to voters twice in the same month in order to exercise the right of decision by law. It is precisely because of these two unacceptable facts, i.e. higher costs and indirect obstructions of the right to a referendum, that Slovenia has sent to the National Assembly and to the Court of Auditors a public call saying, inter alia: "In the European Slovenia we therefore express civil care and strong professional, constitutional and public financial criticism in the conduct of the National Assembly, which called for a rejection referendum only three weeks before the European Parliament has already been asked to do so. Such behaviour by the National Assembly is economically inconsiderate, contrary to the principles of economy and the prudence of spending public funds. Given the nature of the rejection referendum, the validity of which is linked to electoral participation, it is also unconstitutional in the absence of any legitimate interest justifying the duplication of electoral tasks. I will say in my round the covert goal is one: by repeatedly inviting voters to vote within three weeks, taking into account the overall crisis Slovenian context and the predominant apathy of the electorate, by turning voters and voters away from voting in the referendum and thus achieving its invalidity. We therefore call on the Court of Auditors in Slovenia to immediately define itself negatively to the intent of the referendum, which is clearly contrary to the principles of economy and the usefulness of the use of public funds, and we call on the National Assembly to respect the Constitution and expect the referendum to be called for at the same time as the European Parliament's already declared elections." This was forwarded to the National Assembly on 30 March 2014. If the referendum were carried out together with the European elections, which was more than 40,000 signed, then the costs of the referendum for at least 2.2 million euros would be lower. And here, let me draw your attention to the following. If the current government had a sincere interest in providing funds for the digitisation of the archive, as they proposed a long time ago, it could only provide them with a proposal to set a referendum together with the European elections and save at least EUR 2.2 million to digitise the archival material. Now we see that this proposal was intended only to mislead the public, due to the narrow political interests of the coalition's parties at the time of the signing. In view of the other treatment of budgetary money, when the government of Alenka Bratušek commits more to the company of the former economic minister than to the consequences of the acorns, which have affected the country so much, I believe that 2.2 million euros of taxpayer money for opponents of the referendum is not an excessive cost. In particular, because we know that only through the unconstitutional fiasco of real estate tax, the regulation of service has directly caused citizens more than €10 million of unnecessary costs. The continued obstruction of the implementation of the referendum on the day when the maximum participation and the lowest costs would be ensured only proves that the coalition is reviving the exercise of the constitutional right to referendum and also that the referendum is justified and that the archives of the amendment of the law, contrary to the people's decision at the 2011 referendum, are effectively closed. If that were not the case, the coalition would endeavour with substantive arguments to convince voters and voters and would not make it difficult for them to participate in the referendum through bureaucratic manoeuvres. The Minister said today and even on the Committee on Culture, when we have already discussed the decision, that the referendum should be held on its own day, as he said it would be a humiliating exercise, together with the European elections, in some way, to the Institute of the Referendum. An incredible argument, especially if we know that the issue of archives and attitudes to the past is a first-class European theme that goes completely into the context of European elections. But it is true that Euroscepticism on your part also appears at every turn. The resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism is clear and supported by all Slovenian MEPs, regardless of political conviction. And that's because these are issues that we all have in common, not party questions, but they are common to all of us, and they need to connect us. That would be the only thing right and proper. Such questions should connect us. Not only because of the costs that would be significantly lower if we carried out the referendum together with the European elections, but also because of the content that is strongly attached and linked to all the Member States of the European Union, it is the best possible date for the referendum to take place on 25 May. The holding of the referendum on 4 May, as proposed by the Committee on Culture, led by Mrs Majda Potrat, exactly three weeks before the date of the European Parliament's election, is in total contradiction with the principle of economic and prudent conduct, which is expected of the members of the National Assembly. It is also contrary to the prudence of the use of public funds and also to the constitutional principle of rationality. Especially during these difficult times, such conduct cannot be excused with anything. It is unacceptable that the fear of the referendum succeeding and that the amendment of the archival material law would then be rejected would make it impossible to do anything to prevent it. Even at the expense of taxpayers and over 2.2 million additional costs. The coalition speaks a lot and theoretically about the social state and cost reduction, and in practice it does the opposite without compromise. It's actions that count, not words. If you confirm this extreme irresponsible action today, you will also have to take responsibility for it and explain to citizens and citizens why you have put an additional EUR 2.2 million on their shoulders because of political prestige. The referendum would cost about three times less in the case of performances per day, as I proposed with more than 40,000 citizens and citizens. I believe that you will reconsider and act responsibly and prudently when voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u45	Thank you. The next is only Bevk, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u46	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. A respected choir! When we adopted the amendments of Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia a bad year ago, a fundamental message was the debates on the self-limitation of policy. One of the rare ones that we have achieved in this mandate was the decision to take the referendum out of the policy deadlines and to define it as the exclusive right of voters and voters. Throughout the referendum history, the referendum has proved to be the worst and most expensive procedural abuse the Constitution has allowed for policy. Unfortunately, due to political calculus, the possibility was born in a way that the authors of the first Slovenian Constitution certainly did not imagine. The constitutional change agreement should therefore make the referendum proposal an exclusive right of civil initiative. However, in the first case of a referendum initiative following a new regime, it has been shown that it alone is not immune to political use. An important part of the political public has turned into an institution of a civil society initiative and has used manipulation to seize the required number of certified signatures. The driving force of the referendum initiative, the Slovenian Democratic Party, collected signatures on the stand, which clearly indicated that it was an extremely party project. It is also unusual for an alleged civil social initiative that signatures were collected at the head of the party's headquarters. At least it is unhygienic that the promoters and organizers of the signature collection have collected the signatures by manipulation. The password against closing the archives of the Udba, which, with the content of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, had nothing in common, was a powerful motivational tool with which the team of initiators on the ground addressed their peers. Similarly, the question of the client's newspaper, which was a manipulative question, "Do you support the referendum against closing the criminal constitution archives?" The referendum is unnecessary and pointless. But it will be, because it has to be. Not only because of the constitutional provisions we respect by the Social Democrats, but also because of which we will vote in favour of the decree. We also respect the wishes of all those who have contributed to the referendum and want to make decisions as soon as possible, without delay and with our vote, we will also make this possible. It should be stressed, however, that the referendum will be carried out in particular because the political strategies have carried out a political calculation and the sum has clearly indicated the positive effect of party mobilisation on the results of the European elections. Incentive of the referendum, she exemplaryly performed her team building, but with a minor beautiful error. A first-class ideological event will not be carried out together with the European elections. And this is particularly because, with the European idea and even less with European ideals, there is nothing in common. The European Member's violent reactions from the type of initiative calling for a joint referendum with the European elections show, last but not least, that the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives is merely a hostage of the party's electoral campaign. We agree with the proposal to hold the referendum on 4 May 2014. The responsibility for the costs should be attributed to the Slovenian Democratic Party, which uses the referendum for its ideological assembly. Given the fact that we have heard many times in the past days from its kind that 1.3 million euros is almost nothing or virtually nothing money, this should not present a major problem for them. I conclude with the idea that yesterday we discussed the most important part of the day on the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. We discussed an act that not only suffered from a lack of content, but also went beyond the time and space in which we live. Unfortunately, however, I hope that this will not be fatal for the future of citizens and citizens of this country, and there is also a proposal for that interpretation beyond time and space. And it's more than obvious that it's the same for this point that's on the agenda today. The Group of Social Democrats will support the resolution on the call for a referendum. I would like to point out, however, that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has twice tabled amendments on a proposal for a decision by the Committee on Culture, for the first time at a meeting of the home committee and for the second time for the purpose of voting in plenary. Thus, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group gave legitimacy to the Committee's procedure and decision. However, it was also clearly defined by the Legislative and Legal Service at the meeting of the College on 28 March this year, and this magnetogram can also be read by all. In this case, it was said domestically that “shamparija” was the largest opposition parliamentary group. Finally, let me reiterate that for the costs of the referendums it is and will be the responsibility of the political party which is the main initiator of the collection of signatures for the implementation of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u47	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the hall. That's the deal. Polonca Komar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Citizens and citizens have the constitutional right to directly implement the principle of democracy by means of their proposals and positions, and we must allow them to comment at the referendum on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. The request for a referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives was submitted on the basis of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and meets all the conditions required. That is why we cannot and must not oppose it. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the home work body adopted a proposal for a decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and archives containing all the statutory conditions. That is why we will support him in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! The right to a decent grave and pieta to the deceased, and in particular the behaviour of the relatives, where their ancestors were laid for their last rest, are values that must be respected by all civilised society and given the highest marks on the value scale in the Slovenian People's Party. Today, almost 70 years after the end of World War II, there are a number of people among us who want to know where the remains of their fathers, uncles, brothers, and other relatives, who have been coerced by either the invader, and after the end of the war because of the wrong ideological outlook, have left home and have never been returned. Out of respect for all the victims of totalitarian regimes, including communism, under which the Slovenians have lived for about 45 years, and in order to be responsible for our craftsmen, we must ensure that all those to whom the authority has been given are open and freely accessible to all the facts of our half past history. Of course, this includes the materials of the repressive authorities of the former country, especially the former State Security Service or the Udba. The Slovenian People's Party's view is constantly focused on the future, to seek solutions that will mean more prosperity for citizens and citizens of Slovenia and which will lead to the preservation of the nation. But that doesn't mean we're not interested in history. How important it is for a nation to have a relationship with its past and what it has learned from it! And just from this lesson given to the nation by history, we feel that the nation’s view of the future depends on the future. Unfortunately, the Slovenians in this lesson, if I may say so, have done badly. Otherwise, our view of the future would be more optimistic, and by future generations we would have behaved significantly more responsibly than we did. The speed of indebtedness and the vehementness of the authorities in doing so is only one consequence of such irresponsibility. Let me focus more specifically on what we're here for today. We will decide on the call for a referendum on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives required by over 46,000 citizens and citizens. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that the referendum is the foundation of direct democracy. This is a democratic process in which all citizens with electoral rights can participate and give their opinion on a particular issue. Therefore, we will not oppose the decision itself to call for a referendum, regardless of whether the date of implementation will be set on 4 or 25 May, because it would be against the will of the 46 thousand voters who have signed up to the referendum initiative. It would certainly be more rational if the referendum were held on 25 May, together with the European elections, but we fear that the majority in the National Assembly do not wish to do so, otherwise the coalition would not insist with all its efforts at the meeting of the competent working body on the implementation of the referendum on 4 May, which means increasing the costs of carrying out the referendum and justifying the dissatisfaction of our citizens and citizens about how Members are throwing their money through the window. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore support the amendments of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party who propose to hold a referendum together with the European elections on 25 May. Let me pause for a moment with the content to be decided at the referendum. In short, we can conclude that it will be up to us whether we are in favour of opening or opposed the archives of the Udba. We had already decided on a similar issue at the referendum years ago, and the result was clear. Over two thirds of the elected electorate has decided that the archives of the former SDV or Udba should remain freely accessible. However, things are not that simple, as the referendum will decide the fate of the entire archival law, which in a number of ways means improving the current situation in the field of the archival profession. The latter is not alone in whether the changes to be decided at the referendum constitute greater or less accessibility to the so-called oral material. We can't or can't agree on that. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we can regret that when we had this opportunity in the government, we did not know or could arrange this area in a European comparable way, which would be clear and would not allow different interpretations to which we are witnessing both in the current regulation and in the regulation to be the subject of a referendum decision. We fear that even the decision of citizens in the referendum, whatever it may be, will not fully regulate the area of adequate accessibility to the materials of the former State Security Service. Let me finish where I started. In the Slovenian People's Party, we insist that everyone has the right to a grave where his other living relatives can light a candle, remember it, and worship it. Because of the destruction of material on the crimes of the totalitarian system and the public’s access to these materials, many individuals today cannot do so because they do not know what happened to their relatives or where they were laid for their last rest. Crimes from the past need to be investigated and found out where the victims are and who their bloodbaths are. We therefore support the current regulation, which is the law that is now in force, which, in our view, facilitates the exploration of such crimes, but we also support the identification of voters and voters in the referendum on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u52	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister and Fellow Members, Honourable Member, Honourable Members! "The nations that are indistinguishable about the past are unfortunate peoples," said the distinguished German-British political scientist and sociologist Ralph Dahrendorf in 2001. And we Slovenians are a very unhappy nation, and this is because our policy will take every opportunity to put on and consolidate the destructive distribution of Slovenia to yours and ours. We've been talking and cleaning for 20 years, but we're literally going nowhere. The National Assembly adopted a new Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives this January, which the Slovenian Democratic Party over-exploited to reopen ideological themes and promote the division of the Slovenian people. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposaler of the referendum that the issue of historical truth, respect for human rights, the inviolability of human life, the right to conduct and even human dignity must never and cannot be a political or ideological issue, but even less a party, but we are afraid that the very initiator of this referendum has used the novelty on archives for political accounting. In the DeSUS Group, we feel that this referendum will deepen ideological and political divisions in Slovenia, which we certainly do not need in the current acute economic and social conditions. However, the request for a referendum was submitted in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, which is why citizens must be allowed to respect. The DeSUS Group will support the decree on the implementation of the legislative referendum on 4 May 2014. Since this is a referendum on the direct will of people, which is linked to a particular, very specific topic, we believe that it would not be right for our Group to hold a referendum together with the elections to the European Parliament, as originally proposed. We are aware that in this case the costs of the referendum will be higher, but the initiators of the referendum are those who bear all the responsibility for the costs incurred. I repeat, the initiators of the referendum bear responsibility for the costs incurred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u53	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. Before I give the floor to Richard Branisl, who will be the first discusser, he wants the word mag as the motion for a decree. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Now that we have heard the introductory presentations and views of the Group of Members, I would like to draw attention to what you will also find as a confirmation of my words in the tapegram of the meeting of the Committee on Culture. There was no one at the meeting of the Committee on Culture who would have expressed any doubt that the call for a referendum was necessary because such a request had been made, and everyone had expressed a respectful attitude towards the signatures collected for the request for a legislative referendum. All right, everybody. What we discussed at the Committee's meeting was the issue of the date of the referendum and the implementation of the referendum. And this is the law that will be decided by the vote of the people in the referendum, and it is possible to keep track of it all the time. Just as we do not have a uniform view of the adopted law, we have different views in Parliament on when the referendum should be carried out. Since there was a lot of bad news to be heard, not to say ugly, at the expense of what was happening on the Committee, and because the proposal for a referendum was also made by the applicant to hear that the request for a referendum had been eliminated, I should point out that the request for a referendum had not been excluded. If anyone had eliminated the request, then they could not have taken the decision at all. It is true, however, that we should point out that in the referendum issue we had to correct a minor error and that after 40 minutes of deliberation on procedural proposals at the request of the Member of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the Legislative and Legal Service had been assigned solely to the Rules of Procedure. Once again, I would like to stress – exclusively the request for an invitation to tender lodged first under the request, which is Mrs Eva Irgl's citizen. He also said what I will now read to you that "the applicant submits the sole requirement of the electorate." He goes on: "I do not say that Mrs Eva Irgle could not make a decision as a Member, but should make it expressly as a Member. And here in the request, he's acting in a different role. That's what you need to know." He added that "an MP is not always an MP." I want to say that there is one application for a request for a referendum; the other is the application for a decision. The Head of the Parliamentary Group reminds me to reiterate that this has been stated on the Committee by the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, Mr Božo Strle. So much so that we can clear up what happened to the decree. The fact that the request has been complied with is also clear from the fact that, as Chairman of the Committee, I have drawn up a proposal for a decree on which the SDS Group has tabled two amendments. We agreed that we would discuss individual parts and amendments and vote on both amendments and then on the whole decision. All of this has been done and I repeat this so that in those who have not been to a meeting of a committee that has not been monitoring television broadcasts on the third parliamentary programme or who have not gone to read a tapegram, the conviction that we have acted in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law is confirmed by the fact that we have decided for the first time to call for a referendum after the amended constitution. However, that we have accepted those amendments with the necessary two-thirds majority is a fact. So I would politely ask you to take this into account, but I am not ruling out the possibility of turning to any institution in accordance with legal procedures to see if anything has been done wrong. Once again, after we voted on the amendment to initiate the referendum procedure on 14 April, as requested by the SDS, and we rejected it, and after we also rejected the amendment to implement the referendum on 25 May and, in accordance with the introductory agreement, to put the decision to the vote in full, Member Jožef Jerovšek also wanted to table an amendment to the referendum at the local elections. Such an amendment was not tabled, and the request was made when we voted on the decision in full and what was passed was the proposal of the amendments, which we have already voted on. It is said that the Member has tried to force the vote by something which the Committee has already said, at a time when this vote was not possible to say and without adequate written support. This is all I have to say at this time, but please note that no one in the committee has at any time challenged the request for a referendum, even more so, we wanted to speed up the decision, so that this request could also be properly implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor and Mr Franz Bogovic is preparing himself. Here you go, Mr. Braniselle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u56	Thank you very much, President. If anyone had listened to our debate or presented the views of the parliamentary groups so far, he would not have paid attention to the content, he would certainly have been convinced that we were considering constitutional changes. I would like to point out that today's domestic task of the National Assembly is, in fact, to provide the basic conditions for the referendum. It is said at home that we should adopt a decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum, which is actually written on the one hand. It's a technical regulation where I don't actually see what's at stake here and what we might not actually agree on. If we go from the beginning. The first point is that we have the fact that, on the basis of forty thousand signatures, the conditions for the legislative referendum are met. I think we all agree on the first point, and if I try so hard, I can't find any reason or topic for me to discuss at the first point. This is certainly a fact that is probably agreed upon by two million people in this country and elsewhere. Second point. It's a referendum question. I think that even at this point there has been no concern so far that it would not be exactly as it was written here and is one of the important elements of this decree. What a referendum question. I'm also trying here and I can't find a topic to discuss. Third point. When the deadlines for referendums begin to run. Of course, as soon as possible. As soon as possible. The referendum is a constitutional category and we must make this instrument of direct democracy possible as soon as possible, with all due respect, forty thousand and more signatures. The following point, however, could have been the subject of different interpretations. When a vote is taken. The mathematics here is quite simple. The proposal is 25 May, and this is possible if this proposal is voted by a two-thirds majority. Since it is clear that most of these do not exist, the vote must be carried out on a date for which there is a sufficient majority which is foreseen in the law and which must be done as soon as possible. Otherwise, let's stop people from holding a referendum in due course. It doesn't make any sense that this referendum was held in six months or one year from now, because it's already irrelevant. And given that there may not be much debate here too, we have a proposal from the Committee on Culture where this decision has been prepared, adopted and aligned with the parliamentary majority, and I can only see that such a decision has to be supported and I will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u57	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovich has the floor and Mr Franz Jurša is preparing himself. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u58	In the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Ribič made it very clear that in the Slovenian People's Party we regret that the archives are not fully open today. There has already been one referendum on this subject, and the decree we are talking about today is that the date of this referendum should be adopted. In the debate on this law there is always a whole series of interpretations, and so there is a whole range of interpretations in the decision itself, just as there is in the law. Different opinions were expressed as to whether this law opened or closed. Similarly, we have different opinions as to whether the date of this referendum should be subordinated to European elections or to a genuine ambition to open archives with a successful referendum. Thus, it is now a matter of interpretation also of the costs of this referendum. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendments prepared by colleagues from the SDS, which push the date of this referendum against May 25th in order to be joint elections to the European Parliament and the referendum, for a simple reason not to ignore the two million costs that will arise here. What will be the decision of the majority in the National Assembly tonight? As I have already said, we support the referendum, and it is logical that the call for this referendum should be carried out. If the date of the vote is May 25th, the referendum will be then, otherwise on the day of the ruling.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor and Mr Dragan Bosic is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that we are relatively limited, I would like to say some of the views that I have as an individual and which are also available to the majority of the group. A self-referendum means respect with more than 46,000 signatures of the people's reinforced demand for a referendum in the novel of the archival law. This is respect for one of the greatest expressions of human sovereignty. The topic is highly demanding and a self-referendum will receive more focused debates, which also means more room for argument and more time for decision. The call for a referendum together with any elections means that such an important issue as access to archival material in Slovenia is merely the enhancement of pre-election meetings. The call for a referendum, together with any elections, means a failure to respect the European Union Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which clearly provides in Article 6 that archives should not be opened for political purposes. Interfering with a pre-election campaign is clearly an abuse for political purposes. We therefore support the proposal to implement the referendum on 4 May 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragan Bosic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Dear fellow Members, citizens, citizens, voters! There are two things I'd like to talk to you about. First is the referendum. 46 thousand 730 people, if I remember the number correctly, expressed their will after the referendum. This is indisputable and I would not debate it. The second thing is to carry out this referendum and the decree itself is also undeniable in all four points, as formerly said by colleague Braniselj. The amendments are trying to change something in the third and fourth paragraphs, which we discussed on the Committee, and I would not change my opinion on this. There may be a gap in the concept of opening and closing, but as we have heard before, the wise world has decided not to debate this. So we only decide on the decision. With the change of constitution, we have made it clear how it is with the referendum de iura. We see that the de facto is not exactly what we predicted with the constitution. And it seems very important to me personally that this first referendum has been carried out in all items, as it is appropriate for such a referendum. However, I would strongly protest that today I am discriminated against against by the Minister and by the people who represented positions where a decision has been taken that they can speak to you more broadly and I as a Member should not. That doesn't mean I'd like to talk more, more than that. But that means that at first we should respect what was agreed upon. Because the entrance of this building says it's a parliament. It is a democracy, which I understand very wide, where even a small constitution or whatever we call it, is eliminated by one sentence, namely, "what is true of one is true of all" and vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Let me just say that democracy is of course important, but there is also a need to respect the rules of procedure, and I think we have cleared this up in the beginning. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Mr Mirko Brulc, is next in line with the statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, a minister who is not here at the moment, and his associates! The referendum, as the highest form of human decision-making democracy, has been on the committee for the last time and is also dangerously attacked and despised today. It saddens me that there has already been such a denial of the referendum on the committee, because I think that our citizens, by expressing their support for the referendum, have also shown the attitude towards the referendum as the highest will of the people. And this supreme will of the people is currently a ruling coalition of great fear. This coalition decided to prevent the successful outcome of the referendum by all means [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u65	Mr Jerovšek, let me remind you of the agenda. We're talking about a decree. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u67	or more on the date of the referendum. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u68	See, at the second point, he says, "Are you in favour of the law on change?" That's what I'm talking about. Who's up for it and who's not up for it? May I speak to you about this, Madam President?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u69	You may discuss the decision and the agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u70	About second point [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u71	We all know what that is.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u72	I'm just saying, who's asking if you're in favour of law enforcement or not? [[…]] If I make it easy. And the representatives of that part of the people, but not the majority, in my opinion, who in some way usurp the will of the people, decided to prevent this in any way and to use all means, in accordance with the Makiavelist rule “The Objective excuses the means”. In the coalition, you also use illicit means in democracy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you are also so cynical with regard to the third and fourth points which speak of the start of the referendums and the date of the referendum. You are thus interfering with democratic rules, as all electoral tasks must be available for sufficient time. Mr Dusan Vukko, President of the State Election Commission, made it clear on the Committee that the State Election Commission must send a notice after the call for proposals on the completion of the electoral committees to all the District Election Commissions. This is an extremely difficult, exhausting and long-term process. This time, this right of customers and citizens will be violated. There's been a constitutional breach here. A constitutional breach, because this cannot be done in this short period of time. Of course you sacrificed taxpayers' money. You're throwing money around with a shovel because everyone in this country is calling for the date of the elections to be held together with the date of the European elections, so that the costs will be as low as possible. And here, too, the coalition decided to be cost-effective in order to prevent the referendum question, or the purpose and purpose of the referendum. Against the closure of the udbov files, which is the goal and purpose of how strong this desire to keep these archives hidden is the very choice of date, as you put the referendum vote at the center of the May Day. [[..]] On one occasion, the post-communist bloc, which now advocates this, advocated that working people be relieved. Now this date is set at the center of the May Day holidays, people are supposed to come from vacations and interrupt vacations. Of course, this is how the referendum is hampered. With regard to the date, I must say that Mr Minister, on the Committee, has served unheard of cynicism and insults regarding the implementation and date of the referendum. The Minister said: "I call on you not to devalue the request for a referendum in a way that links the referendum in any way with the elections of Slovenian representatives to the European Parliament for a simple reason, because then the question of the referendum of access to archival material will be humiliated to the pendant." Can European elections be humiliating for the referendum? That this is a humiliating process, as the Minister has said? I believe that the Minister, who comes from Positive Slovenia, is concerned about the European elections for their party because, after all efforts, they cannot draw up one worthy list for the European Parliament. And from this point of view, it may say that European elections are humiliating. But this is such an insult to the referendum, to the European elections and to the Slovenian decisions for the European Union, where every five years in the elections we will express our will and have our representatives so that man cannot imagine it. And that is said by the Minister, who is also the Minister of Culture. And it is unworthy to advertise in such a machiavelist manner when there is no agitation or campaign, against the success of the referendum, for which there is the will of 46,000 voters. There's more cynicism going on today. The Minister today referred to the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism when he spoke against the date of implementation on 25 May. This post-communist bloc has so far ignored the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. And also on August 23rd, set by the European Parliament for the day of the battle of memory of all victims of all three totalitarianisms. You have ignored it with contempt, you have not attended an event, but today the ministers and other representatives of some of the parties refer to the European Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Is it possible to go to the bottom more? What you despise today is used as an argument. What defied Europe tremendously. The argument you are making to use the archives in this case for political agitation is also not true. It's a matter of dignity and culture. Archives and, in particular, data on massive human rights violations by totalitarian parastatal services must be accessible after the European Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. It is a misquote and interpretation of the resolution. And again, you are referring to a resolution you have not mentioned once. You prevented your political predecessors from confirming it in this House when it was adopted in the European Parliament. When all Slovenian Members voted for her there, the same Members and representatives of their party despised her and prevented her from receiving her. This proves that there is no moral edge beyond which it would not melt and that there is no economic edge beyond which it would not melt. The two-and-a-half million additional costs represent nothing against the political objectives of usurping the referendum date. It's a moral bottom for me to go over everything. And over that edge, it's melted again today. Today, the Minister did not repeat that deplorable explanation of why it would be humiliating to have a referendum on the day of the European elections, because he probably received a reminder from Europe that the European Union and the European elections should not be spoken of in such a disdainful manner and was aware of the political consequences for our country, which, without the European Union, is currently unable to meet. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to stop looking at the archives of the Udba with this cynicism, this waste of citizens and this rejection of the archives of the Udba and what happened to the citizens. Present yourselves to the people as Democrats and accept that we are cost-effective and transparent and respect the European Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Now he has the floor on behalf of the Magi proposalr. Majda Potrat, Mr. Mirko Brulc is preparing for her. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I understand that understanding the facts and texts is very different, but it is necessary to say here before the former European Member, who has also voted in favour of this resolution that no national Parliament is obliged to vote on any resolution that does not have the legislative character or nature of the law, because it is a resolution adopted at European level at European Union level. To speak of the contempt and disregard for the resolution that is under way, but after the National Assembly has adopted a special declaration, it is indeed a very free and very arbitrary interpretation of the facts. I will not go into evaluating how someone experiences the words of different speakers, but the fact is that the requirement is that history should not be interpreted politically, that means that there is no mandate over the interpretation of history by any political party written at the beginning of this resolution and it would be good for some to read it. So much for the resolution. The Director of the Administration of the State Election Commission was mentioned and the Committee already expressed the idea that the deadlines were too short. See, also in the explanation for the proposed amendment, you refer to the Constitutional Court decision, which states that it shall be convened within 15 days at the most, which means that it may also be convened in less than 15 days. The amendment went on a proposal in fifteen days, which is fine, and we proposed a faster date. And that's a legitimate proposition. In addition to concerns as to whether all tasks can be carried out or not. Mr Dušan Vukko said: "The deadlines for electoral work, as well as in the referendum, are short, run regardless of weeks, days off, in short, this is a specific election, but the law here is clear." It's all short-term. In the meantime, he said something else, and then he said, "So after ten days they have to make proposals," so from the decision, the parties and those who propose members of the committees, "and then the District Election Commission in the next four or five days, they appoint electoral committees. So, yes, the hands are short, but with some effective organization it always does." He also drew attention to the need for the National Assembly to decide on the date and for the State Election Commission to prepare everything necessary for the implementation. As to how someone is deceiving, let me just say that it was heard that one election committee should decide on hundreds of committees, and I immediately received a text message that it wasn't really 100 electoral committees, but only 48. So we can go too far if we want to stop something. As far as costs are concerned, I need to draw attention to one more detail. At the same time, there is still an additional cost of 300 000 for the elections, but it is also important to note that two committees should actually decide. Those appointed after the election to the European Parliament for European elections and the second after the State elections for the referendum at national level. The question is how would the State Election Commission decide in this case because they had already discussed it. The State Election Commission would probably, if it were a joint exercise, have decided to increase the number of members of the electoral committees, not to double the costs, but only to increase those million 300 thousand plus another 300 thousand. If we were talking about what costs would be, we would really be lower at the same time, but here we also weigh the substantive reasons. And this is where the members of the committee decided as they had decided. They have decided to carry out the referendum on their own, and so is the proposal for a decree before you. However, the National Assembly will also vote on the amendments tabled and the will of the entire National Assembly will be demonstrated. In particular, I would like to point out that everything so far has been said just so that we can make a decision with sufficiently extensive and in-depth information from those who actually have this information. I think that's the right thing to say. Making sure the State Election Commission couldn't do its job if the electoral process started on 3 April, but it's, once again, superfluous. I have quoted the words of the Director of the National Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc, Mr Robert Hrovat, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u76	Your Honor! Today we are discussing the call for a referendum. It is important that we organize it independently, not in some package, as was the custom, when many did not know what the real content of the referendum was. But we also know that this is a subject that is also highly technical, so it is important that those potential voters and voters who will go to the referendum get to know exactly, because the content is not so simple, in the sense of "the archives are closing, the archives are being opened." The content is completely different and more complex. The collection of 46 thousand signatures is indeed not an easy matter, but the party that organised it with the pressures of its agitators, of course, carried it out. I have evidence, I may sometimes use it for some pressure, people in the workplace, and elsewhere, that they had to bring a certified voice from the administrative unit or whatever you call that statement, so they didn't risk any jobs. The costs of carrying out this referendum should be attributed to the SDS. And you don't need any comparison, not with the ache, not with the big calculations, what's cheaper, what's more expensive, if it's possible to save. It would be a save if this referendum, which is unnecessary, would not be necessary. But we will now, of course, call this referendum and it will by no means be the economic act of this National Assembly, but at least the opposition party. Who puts the costs of this referendum on the shoulders of citizens and citizens? Let's ask ourselves who. Someone on this side or are you loading this? No, definitely not the ministry, but the party that organized the signatures and led people to the referendum. And now for my final question. Why are you afraid of a referendum on May 4th? What's the matter? Comrade Jerovšek mentioned May 1st and more, but those who celebrate May 1st know that two days are holidays, the rest is a normal working day or weekend, whatever we call it. Don't be afraid. I hope that you will bring these 46,000 signatories to the referendum and the result will be what it will be and, of course, we will respect it. Of course, I will vote in favour of the May 4th referendum and I am not ready to give my vote for any other amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrvat will be discussed below as the first, then Mr Jerko Čehovin, Matjaž Han and Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What he has just said in the introduction by his colleague, Brulc, is underestimating to electives and voters. To suggest that voters and voters are not able to answer several questions in the elections, to circle for or against and so on. Remember the fiasco of your government, Pahor's government. Three against. You've lost all three referendums. 85 to 15, if you remember. Hence, people can appreciate and appreciate what is needed to surround themselves. And it's underestimating to say that people don't know each other in one election to decide more things at the same time. You're talking about 40,000 and more signatures. That's not true! It's almost 47,000 signatures and it's not just signatures collected, it's certified in administrative units and signed in front of the parent. They've all gathered in one month. And the least we can do is take it seriously. Very serious. Not only is it very serious, but it's extremely serious. From now on, we Members and Members are obliged to act responsibly, in particular responsibly. We propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party for the 15 April and 25 May referenda as the day of the vote. Why May 25th? At that time, elections to the European Parliament lead to the rationalisation of the costs at which your mouth is full. You're talking about cost reduction, rationalization such and different, now you're supposed to raise VAT, we'll see if you'll see if it's true. See, this will actually rationalise the costs that will arise because you have followed the government's proposal on the Law on Documentary and Archive Protection and Archives in a stubborn way in the coalition. You supported him. Because of your support for the law, voters and voters in a very large number went to the stands and then to the mothers and signed a request for a referendum. Because of this stubbornness, the nation has happened to you, and I will call it that, and almost 47,000 certified signatures, of course, express the strong and unequivocal will of the citizens to express, in the highest form of direct democracy, human sovereignty and, by referendum, reject by the government the proposed and approved law by the coalition that closes archives. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, the Minister of Culture said not to interfere with the topic of how we feel about our past history and the archive material with those that are very much attached to the future of life in Slovenia. Of course, one could agree with that. But that would not be necessary if you listened to a profession that is prominently, but very strongly on the part of the people before the adoption of the law. The equalization of victims and criminals and the anonymization of some data from the archives was by the government the drop over the edge where people said, and now that's enough. And now, just one more word about the costs of this referendum that you're about to create because you've adopted such a bad marriage that people want to reject it. Thank you, Mr Vukko, Director of the State Election Commission, for a properly presented picture of the costs incurred by the government's proposal for an archive and support bill by the coalition. There's a big difference here. It's a big difference. Mr Vukko then said that these costs should take into account the costs that the government or someone else in the reserve would have to provide for the holding of the referendum, since the budget for the budgetary user of the State Election Commission does not have the resources to be allocated. And then it goes on, "I hope here to say that the costs will not exceed 3 million and a half in one variant," this is in the variant that you are proposing as a coalition, "and a million 300 thousand in the other variant," which we are proposing as an opposition or one of the co-proposers. This is a really big difference and respected coalition MPs and Members, and they would be surprised if they were talking to people who contributed to the signatures, when they actually heard the cries of desperation of citizens, that our history from a failed country was still not cleared, and that the murderers and those who decided whether or not to live or kill them were still going free. Believe me, people are still afraid to talk about it. But I believe that at the referendum they will make it clear what their will is and that you will learn the real truth or what people want to tell you about the law that you supported by the coalition MPs and Members, and that you will also be responsible for the burden of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, you have the floor. I'm sorry, it's true. Mr. Brultz has a replica first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u80	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvath, in one word, I did not mention or underestimate the electorate and the electorate. I didn't say we wouldn't be able to assess any more matters properly. [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, that's right. But I was talking about the very difficult content of this referendum. It's not the same, it's not the same. It's a demanding content. [[adverts from benches]] Stop, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u81	Mr. Brultz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u82	Why are you so upset now? The content is difficult and must be properly explained not to go back to limes, as in the case of signatures. And there's one more thing. If it were really for your expenses, then we wouldn't be collecting signatures and leaving the initiative alone without a lot of customer assistance to get people to collect signatures as much as we would. And we would see if the wish for a referendum was properly expressed. Now the referendum will be, we will perform it, and we will see the result, which we will also respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Without unnecessary patheticism, I will focus on what is the agenda. This is the decree and the date of the referendum. It is clear to me and I do not want to discuss the subject of this referendum, because there will be a lot of time for this in the pre-referendum campaign. But I think the subject is so difficult that it's right for people to talk about it at a referendum that will have a date. A self-referendum will also receive more focused debates, which also means more room for arguments and more time for decisions. I understand, however, that he wanted to include the topic as a top theme for the European elections. On the other hand, it is also important to understand others who do not think that this should be a leading theme in the European elections, but should be in accordance with the will of the people, which will be a subject that is to be adopted in particular, and which we believe should actually be more focused on what kind of EU we want, what kind of banking union we want, what kind of controlled migration within the EU, what kind of economic activity and actions the EU should be. In general, I think we highly underestimate the European elections, which are once every five years, as 70% of all relevant legislation is adopted in Brussels in the form of directives or regulations. We are implementing something into our legal order and we need to put something automatically into execution. That is why I think it is particularly necessary that we also have enough time for these European elections and that we focus on the topics that touch on our common European future in the electoral campaign. Well, given the cost of the readings, that's all I'd say. You have heard that most of these costs represent so-called electoral committee diaries. Most of the expenses. That means it's not about the free money, because that money will go to our people. It won't go away, like in any other case. Let's be honest. If we want to carry out democracy, democracy also has its price. And here I see no reason to focus in European elections on a topic that is eminent, but it concerns more the issue of the past than the future. That is why, like most coalition members, I will support the 4 May date, as the signatories also have the right to express themselves as soon as possible on the request for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Interesting debate, ladies and gentlemen. This proverb is good: Anyone who does not know you, ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, would pay you dearly. We've only been listening to demagogism for hours or days. First, I wonder what was the purpose and purpose of what Jože Jerovšek says. What was the purpose and purpose? I'll give you an answer. This is a legitimate political game, it is fair to get the SDS to vote for the European elections as many people as possible and discipline them. How does he discipline them? It's best to open an ideological theme. We've opened the archives, we're going on a run and everyone's going to the polls. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. Everyone to the elections so that we can get a significantly better result for the European elections, because it is known that there are unfortunately very few citizens and citizens going to the European elections. I'm sorry. It's all our clients' fault. That's the first one. He doesn't hold what Robbie Horvath says when he said that this marriage was backed by a coalition. This archive law was also supported by Nova Slovenija and part of the Slovenian People's Party. [[adverts from benches]] Vinko, calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u87	I'm asking for peace in the hall, and we know the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u88	Yeah. And when you agree to go collect signatures, give out your garages your banners, put your stands in front of the administrative units, yellow boards with blue sky and the inscriptions "SDS" and "we collect signatures." Bravo and the hat down. Only your client manages to collect 50,000 signatures in such a short time. No other client, and believe me, we all have a headache and we don't know what to do. But the hat's off. Now for the cost. Two years ago, I said the same thing that Jelko Chehovin said today. There's no cost. Let me see you now. Firemen's advocates. Firehouses get rent when they're referendums and when they're elections. Local communities get rent from the country. The press is printing. People get 50 euros. All of this is released back into the budget and there is no cost. And that. They say the referendum and elections are a holiday of democracy. Don't talk about costs. If we cared about the costs, I remember when the four leaders of the parliamentary groups invited you to withdraw the archive referendum and there would be no cost. I'm afraid you thought we'd fall for this trick. We don't have as successful a client as you do, but we didn't fall for this. So you can have two choices. One choice is the death of Titus, and the other is the birth of Titus. We decided on 4 May, then we will go to the elections, then you will be able to succeed, and if you really want the referendum to succeed, you will concentrate and convince the people. And if you win, I'll congratulate you again. For the first time I congratulated you for collecting 50,000 signatures, next time I will congratulate you on rejecting the archival law on the most democratic path through the referendum. The hat's off. Joseph Jerovšek, it's a shame you're not in there. It goes down a lot of times in a debate I don't understand. But today I listened to Val 202, and I finally understand why he talks like that, because he said that his mind skips a lot of times. Unfortunately, his thoughts skip over and over again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Robbie Croat, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u90	Dear colleague Matjaž Han. The fact is that the Government has introduced the law, the fact is that the coalition has supported it, along with some other parties, okay, the Slovenian Democratic Party has opposed it, and since you have adopted such a law, there is only this option to prevent this madness that you want. [[advertising from the hall]] Nothing. You are causing costs, you could decide and listen to our proposal to hold a referendum at the same time as the European elections. You mentioned firefighters and firehouses. These two million, or 2.2 million, this difference was said by Mr Vukko at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, which are the funds that can be allocated in the budget for firefighters at the next rebalancing. I wonder if it will be necessary to re- table an amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party in order for the firefighters to receive the money. So don't tell us not to go into demagogy, it's too serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, and the mag is being prepared. Branko Grimes, mag. Ivan Vogrin, Mrs Sonja Ramšak and Mag. Majda Potter. Here you go, Mrs. Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before this national assembly, I must say that I very much respect the demand of all 46,000 citizens and citizens who have signed under the initiative to call for a legislative referendum. This referendum is legitimate and we will no doubt adopt this decree and call for a referendum at today's meeting of the National Assembly. I am not going to define the referendum issue itself, but I would like to say something else about the deadline for the referendum. The Committee on Culture adopted a decree on the call for a referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives setting a deadline for the implementation of the referendum on 4 May 2014. I will, of course, support this decree. I believe that this referendum is a very difficult subject, more views have been expressed today, and I also think it would be very inappropriate for a debate on such an important topic to be combined with a debate on candidates for the European Parliament and European elections. In this respect, I also support the position previously expressed by my fellow Member, Mr Han. Citizens and citizens who have signed under the initiative for this referendum have the right, in my opinion, to pay full attention to the content of the referendum issue and to speak only of this referendum issue in the debate that will take place. As far as the costs are concerned. Today, it has been repeatedly said that if there were no request for a referendum, there would be no costs, so it must be reiterated that it bears all the consequences, i.e. the costs of this referendum, the applicant himself. To talk about savings, if the referendum were then and then, was a little strange, or there was a talk about why the SDS proposed a referendum on that date, as proposed by the SDS. I believe that the motion for a decision is acceptable and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u94	Thank you. Under the cover of sacred care for people who are not supposed to be able to decide two important things on the same day, you make fun of people and call them voters twice in the same month. This is your concern for the people. They're gonna have to do the cost twice, get in the car twice, drive somewhere, go to the polls and sacrifice time for that. This is your concern for the people. Yes, of course! It's not just making fun of people, it's also making fun of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. That's what you missed. The Constitution also gives rise to the principle of economics and rationality. The obligation for those with authority — and in this case you — to act as a good master with taxpayers’ money. The taxpayers' money is not given to you, ladies and gentlemen, but by voter votes you are entrusted with good governance. And that's what you owe them every moment and every decision you make. In this case, there is no excuse not to act as a good master and to hold a referendum at the same time as the elections. Earlier, in my opinion, someone from the SD Group made a slight mockery of us when he said that we could judge the Constitutional Court and, in view of today's debate, he was probably already looking for an excuse that if there was no referendum before the European elections, you would call him late, after them. But you've forgotten one very important thing. This year, the two elections and the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative in Article 33 are now written in such a way as to allow a year to pass from the invitation to vote to the day of the vote. It is said that there is no legal discussion for not having a rational referendum this year at the same time as the elections, or European or local elections. Everything else is a mockery of people, a mockery of the constitutional principle of economy and rationality and conduct that is clearly contrary to the value of conduct as a good master. And the responsibility for this is solely yours and yours alone. And today you've been making fun of people, law, constitution, and procedure. Also what you have enjoyed at the outset, when you have taken away one of the Members of Parliament's right to be a Member of Parliament. After the constitution, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a constitutional category again, every Member shall be from the moment the mandate is given to him by the National Assembly with its decision until the next National Assembly is appointed. So when the newly elected Members receive their mandate again. And the mandate is continuous, every second, every fraction of a second. And it's completely irrelevant, as someone signs, whether Branko or Grims is signed or Branko Grims or anything, because in any case he's performing in all functions. He is a citizen and has all rights as a citizen, and he is also a Member and has all the rights and responsibilities arising from the function of the Member. And you've all missed it and consciously overlooked it at this very moment. You are also consciously overlooking the fact that you owe people in Slovenia who have already been impoverished to the extent that they are barely living, that at least in this case you are acting as a good master. And that's why you have to call the election at the same time as the referendum. Everything else is the mockery and mockery of the people you impoverished and impoverished every week. Last week a billion and a half new debts, one week later three billion and a half new debts. In just a few months, you have so indebted poor Slovenia as it was previously in charge of independence. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u95	Mr. Grimes, the topic is today's decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u96	until 2008 together with the former Yugoslav debt. [[...]] You've made so many poor people. And today you're deciding on a few more million. And what kind of conjecture do you afford? You've spent billions, you've indebted people, and now you're going to start a few million more, and you're going to point to others on the other side like they're responsible. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u97	Mr Grimes, I'm alerting you to a non-indebted item on the agenda!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u98	Madam President, I am talking exactly about the date and only about the content. You have no right to violate the rules of procedure and the principles of the Constitution, such as Weber did this morning. By the way, that's really what this was about. Don't embarrass Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u99	The Rules of Procedure should be respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u100	So respect him, every moment, even now, even though I believe you're in trouble. We therefore go to the principle of accountability to people. You are responsible under a constitution that binds everything and everyone and you in every decision. And even if the principles of economy and rationality are not explicitly enshrined in the constitution and you think, we're going to screw these few million now to make a fool of people, the opposition and the right to a referendum, that's not the case. Because the principle of economics and rationality stems directly from the Constitution itself. From the combination of provisions governing the principles of financial management, where they must all be collected in the budget, and from the 50th Article, which says that everyone has the right to social security, which you have with irrational decisions, you take and violate non-economic decisions, so you are violating the constitutional right, which you are doing clearly and publicly, and you are not even ashamed of it. That's what you should be worried about, and you're doing it in obvious panic, like today's obvious panic in running this National Assembly. What are you so afraid of in these poor archives? All of Europe is for the archives to remain open and to be discussed. You're panicking that this wouldn't happen. It is clear what these matters are, but you have no right to spend taxpayers' money today because there is an obvious rational solution that is different. It is covered in our amendment and requires a run-off with the elections. If you are unable to do so, or if you rely on a constitutional judgment – because I say that if you continue to think about it, it will – allow you to have this as an excuse to go through European elections. There are still another elections in the same year and my personal proposal to the Constitutional Court would be in this case - I only hope that such a thing will be taken into consideration, because this right is – that the Constitutional Court would already explicitly state that this is not only a right, but is also a duty that those who have power do not have the right to be indebted to everyone on long and medium terms, but that they have the right and duty to seek the most optimal, rational solutions, because this money is not given to them. The taxpayers' money is entrusted to you for one mandate to lead a country that must comply with the Constitution. Economically and rationally. Well, look where we are right now. For every child in Slovenia who was born and happily bee in the cradle, you have charged him with €14,000 minus at this time. You put them in his zipper. You've already "started" one car he'll never see, but he'll have to pay for it. Every four-member family you "started" 56,000 euros, which is now a small house somewhere in the White landscape or Prekmurje. Or at least an apartment. You took their apartment and burned it down, threw it out the window.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u101	Mr. Grimes, I [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u102	That's rationality. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u103	I'm warning you. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u104	of yours [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u105	Again [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u106	the decision. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u107	per point [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u108	That's it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u109	agenda [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u110	reality [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u111	Or else I'll be [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u112	of yours [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u113	used [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u114	Continued [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u115	77. [[…]] Article [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u116	Indebtedness [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u117	the rules of procedure. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u118	which is based on irrational decisions, exactly the kind of ones that you stand for today and make a fool out of people and from the Constitution. [[…]] From people because you want to send them twice in the same month to voter, no matter how much time and expense that means to them. The Constitution, however, is because you do not respect the principle of economics and rationality. At least you tell your real face.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Since there is once again an indication of who has the status of proposer, let me reiterate that I have already quoted the words of the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service spoken at the meeting of the Committee. I would like to remind you, however, that an opinion was also sent to the President of the National Assembly on 5 February 2014 by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the opinion on the initiative of the electorate to apply for a legislative referendum. In the third paragraph of this opinion, you will read: “Eva Irgl has given the electoral initiative, which under Article 16(1) of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative as an electoral candidate can give an initiative.” Like an elective. No one has claimed that Eva Irgle has not been a Member of Parliament all this time since her mandate was approved. However, the Legislative and Legal Service claims that it can give the electorate an initiative to call the Eva Irgl referendum only as an electorate. And I ask you now what would happen if any of the 46 thousand 700 and so many citizens and citizens who have signed their signatures – but I would rather talk about 40 thousand 600 because so many of the signatures for the referendum initiative – wanted to perform on behalf of the initiators of the referendum? Would that instigator be given the right to impose a decision? No, no, no. Why didn't you decide that Mr Leljak, who has been invited so many times to the petition committee's meetings and is interested, would make a request for a referendum? You have submitted this request as representatives of civil society and as representatives of citizens and citizens. You knew how the constitution was changing. As evidence, I will quote the words of the head of your parliamentary group in that part relating to the amendment of Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution, in the Magnography of the 36th Extraordinary Meeting on 24 May 2013. He said: “What concerns specific amendments to Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution is the following. In the first paragraph, 30 Members are deleted – I must say that this was not a simple decision for our party and the Group of Members, because this in fact eliminates the possibility of a parliamentary minority who disagrees with the solution and no longer has the possibility of requiring a referendum, such as a certain solution, regulation, law to be adopted. But this was part of the compromise that our party and the parliamentary group agreed to." At the time of the constitutional change, you knew that you had waived the right of Members to make an initiative for a referendum. And Eva Irgle, all honour and glory, is first signed under the referendum initiative as a citizen and in this context does not, in accordance with Article 169a, have the status of qualified decision-maker. Therefore, the Decree annexed and drafted together with the request for a legislative procedure was not forwarded to the Legislative and Legal Service for review. This decision was not followed by the Legislative and Legal Service. You can take me any way you want and tell me whatever you want, but the facts are on the side of the procedure I carried out as chairman of the committee. I could also make a decision as a Member and in this case procedures would run slightly differently, but let's leave it. Just to avoid risking a clear statement of direct conflict between the first and the applicant of the request and the chairman of the committee, I have proposed that the proposed decision-making committee be. That is why things are running as they are, and I ask you to accept that no one is taking Mrs Eva Irgle's status as a Member. If I had, then I would not have read the power to replace Ambassador Eva Irgl at the committee meeting with Ambassador Janjo Najast. And when it was discussed how she would get the word, I specifically said that as a candidate of the request when she comes forward, that is at any time, because we are demonstrating this today, and as a Member she will be given the floor when it is her turn. I have separated between these two functions all the time, and I have not restricted it in any way, but it would be good to take some things for hire, for example, that the change of the constitution entails some new actions that we have not yet tried. And it's not fooling around, if we say to judge it, it's just an initiative that if you don't believe this explanation, then there are legal remedies or ways to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u122	Your Honor! Once again, once again, the mandate has been suspended from the moment it is granted until the term of office of the new National Assembly and, of course, those who are Members or Members of Parliament shall have all the rights and duties, as they shall be, on the basis of their nationality. How someone signs is completely irrelevant. I can also sign as my father's son, but I'm still a Member. And everything else is a perversion and a manifest violation of constitutional and legal principles. Another time. In addition to making fun of the procedure, once again, I stress, for making fun of the Constitution because you violate the principle of economy and rationality and do not act as a good master of taxpayers' money. And also by sending people twice in the same month to voter, I think they may have some elements of unconstitutionality. Under cover of concern for their rational decision - making, since it should be so difficult that it cannot be done at the same time, you actually needlessly overburden them with both time and material burdens — in the end, many of them take to the polling station after ten or more kilometres. And in this case, the question arises to me whether or not it is also elements of anti-constitution. But surely they are present all the time, and from the beginning of this treachery of yours to the final mockery of the people you have just expressed. And I regret that this is because the right to a referendum is one of fundamental constitutional rights and would deserve all respect, just as voters and voters themselves deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Next one's a mag. Ivan Vogrin. Since I can't see him in the hall, I can't give him my word. Next up is Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u124	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In fact, in the last days we have dealt with violations of certain procedures twice in this House. I really want the section to analyse in detail the procedure for the submission of signatures to the National Assembly, the conduct of the services of the National Assembly and who was the legal applicant of the decision on the call for a referendum. If the decision submitted together with the signatures is not marked as an annex, then this is not an annex to this, but should be treated as a separate document. This means that Member Eva Irgl has been able to make a decision on the invitation to a legislative referendum as a Member. This should now be investigated by the professional services and I hope that external experts will also give their opinion on this. Above all, I will rely on the debate of those Members and Members of the coalition, who today have literally abused the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Why? Because you spoke only about what the resolution said in the introduction and how it was drawn up. The resolution of the European Parliament first refers to certain facts. And it reads: "because no political body or political party has the exclusive right to explain history" and "because these authorities and parties cannot claim to be objective" and "because official political explanations of historical facts should not be imposed by majority decisions in parliaments; because Parliament cannot adopt legislation for the past." Then talk about what the European Parliament is pointing out. Respected colleagues and colleagues, the European Parliament expresses its respect for all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe and is devoted to all those who have fought against tyranny and oppression. The European Parliament recalls that recent crimes against humanity and genocide in Europe took place in July 1995 and that the fight against undemocratic, xenophobic, authoritarian or totalitarian ideas and aspirations requires constant vigilance. It points out that in order to strengthen the European awareness of the crimes committed by totalitarian and non-democratic regimes, documentation and testimony about the restless European past must be supported, since there can be no reconciliation without memory. It regrets that 20 years after the collapse of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe, access to documents that are important to individuals or necessary for scientific research is still unduly restricted in some Member States. It calls on all Member States to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services, although it is necessary to ensure that this is not used for political purposes. The European Parliament strongly and clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes and expresses its sympathy, understanding and recognition for their suffering to the victims of these crimes and their family members. The European Parliament is also convinced that the proper preservation of the historical memory, the extensive re-evaluation of European history and the pan-European recognition of all historical aspects of modern Europe would strengthen European integration. Finally, honourable colleagues and colleagues, the European Parliament is convinced that the ultimate objective of the disclosure and assessment of the crimes committed by the communist and totalitarian regimes is the reconciliation that can be achieved through the recognition of responsibility, the request for forgiveness and the promotion of moral reconstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u125	Mrs Ramshak, I'm sorry, we're talking about a decision today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u126	Thank you for warning me. I would expect to warn those who spoke about this resolution, but I was obliged to interpret the resolution of the European Parliament in the right way. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we are discussing today's decision on the invitation to a legislative referendum, I certainly support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it seems to me that it is planned that you have written in a decree to begin the deadlines for the tasks run on 4 May. You knew very well that at the time people were on leave and very well you placed this date, but I am sure that these very acts that you are doing today, which you have also done on the Committee on Culture, Citizens and Citizens, will give the power to come to the referendum if our amendments are not voted on, and show that they want the historical truth to begin with a big letter, that history should truly be revalued and that it is necessary to condemn crimes and criminals and that it is the right way to lead Slovenia into a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u127	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u128	Thank you. I will not comment on what the Member State said was the correct interpretation of the resolution, but I will react to the first part of its debate, in which there was a requirement for professional services to examine the procedures. I don't know how many times, but I have already said several times today that the decisions or procedures taken by the Committee on Culture were based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. If now some cannot accept this fact, it is another thing, but I think that at least the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service would be good to exonerate or clean up the political review of things. The Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that Eva Irgl, as the applicant for the request for a referendum of a citizen with the same rights as those of the 40,000 600 verified signatories and signatories, has. However, Mrs Eva Irgl, a Member of Parliament, could have replaced either any of the Members and Members with a different decree, but the SDS has tabled an amendment to the decree. By the way, the second amendment was put into the wrong chapter, but I overlooked and accepted that the second amendment was put into chapter four because the accompanying text spoke so. Once again, the expert services have been declared, but if they want the judicial branch of power to be pronounced, you also have these paths, but the proceedings on the committee have been conducted correctly, in accordance with the law, the rules of procedure and the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Now I'm giving the word "magic" again. Maji Potter as a debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u130	Thank you. I will now speak on my behalf, that is, those things that I cannot say as chairman of the committee because the committee has not discussed. In my view, everything that has been going on in relation to the law has not indicated that the expert opinions on the law are so personal that the adoption of the law would require such drastic corrections that it should be judged by people. Once again, experience has shown that when voters and voters faced an expert decision, they usually spoke if politicians are not able to make their own decisions and why we insist on electors to choose for us. That's the usual attitude. I support the independence of the referendum so that people will have time to prepare well, to think carefully about how they will deal with their vote at the referendum, because the wrong position expressed by Mr Jerovšek is that they have the right to decide on the referendum only those who are in favour of the referendum. The date of the referendum shall also be decided by those who have a different position on the referendum for a specific law or on the law. Because no one is forced forward to decide what to do at the referendum. Therefore, it is discriminatory for someone to deny the right to debate or decide who thinks otherwise. The entire National Assembly will decide that. I see a serious problem with the fact that participation in the first and other European elections in Slovenia was around 30%. I believe that this is a low percentage, but nothing substantially deviates from the percentage of participation in other countries. And I see the request for simultaneous referendum and European elections as a political gesture. But not then to challenge a different view of things. Once again, the decision in the elections for the European Parliament is a political decision. There we will decide between citizens and citizens whether they belong or are sympathetic to the parties or to the political programmes of individual parties. It'll be a political decision. The decision on the law, whether or not the law should enter into force, is not a political decision because it is left to the referendum. This is a professional decision because if the law is rejected at the referendum, the law will remain in force. The law in force, however, poses problems in its application. These problems are known to various governments, including those who adopted the law in 2006, since they had to help themselves with a little differently, namely certain regulations. I read a statement by one of those who were also among the directors of the RS Archives, who said that this part that regulates matters concerning archives, which some call the Udbov archives, is just one thing that is not problematic, that other things in the law are very important. I therefore stress that it would be better to discuss, instead of deciding on the referendum – although now the referendum – the circumstances and conditions of the RS Archives are in place, and instead of dedicating this money to the RS Archives. And here I am joining the proposal of New Slovenia, which in one of its statements specifically stressed that we prefer digitisation or anything else. The situation in the archives needs to be regulated and what is national wealth is much broader than that one segment, which is now being talked about for the most part. Therefore, I am in favour of the holding of the referendum alone, even if, for example, in the Echoes, it was said that if the referendum was held on 25 May, it would cost almost nothing. A million 300 is almost nothing. Yesterday we were discussing interpolation due to a million and 400, but at the referendum it was said to be almost nothing. Or, as the president of the SDS said, there would be almost no cost. I understand that, with the President's statement, Mrs Irgl has been given a mandate to declare in Odessa that I do not harm her in the party, but the fact is, if someone says that a million is almost nothing, that is cynicism. I do not think that any of us who advocate a stand-alone term for the referendum argued that the costs are not higher if the referendum is a stand-alone referendum. But when the court judges, it will judge by the principle of proportionality and also take into account the value of the right to good information, the awareness of the law and the possibility of making an in-depth decision on this matter. It'll weigh both. And the statement that the Court of Auditors must immediately be negatively defined by a single date may be something that the SDS party considers to be okay, but for now the Court of Auditors cannot order how to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u131	Thank you very much. He will now receive the word of Dr. Vinko Gorenak, after which be prepared by Franz Pukšič, Dr. Ljubica Jelusič, Daniel Krivec and Aljoša Jerič. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u132	Thank you. For starters. I hope you have seen how many times Mrs Potara has spoken about the law, but you have not taken her word, while that is why Mrs Eva Irgle was taken away. So much for democracy. I've just given my contribution the title Jump into the dictatorship, which is what I consider to be today. But let's get down to it. It is a great irony that I am looking at Mrs Potrato, who has the status of proposing. The second irony is that you claim that Mrs Eva Irgle is not an MP, but a citizen. Given what day it is today, we could start with this frame and say it's just an April joke. But it's not. This is the reality we have. Thus, Eva Irgl is suddenly not a member of Parliament, and Mrs Potrate is a proposer. How? Mrs. Potts, of course, teaches me stupidity, just as she's been doing everything so far. It claims to be 40,000 600 signatures, because so many were to be verified and counted. That's not true. 46 thousand 700, but for technical reasons it is quite clear that 40 and some stop verification of signatures. That's true, not that there were only 40 thousand 600. And you have no right to say that because you deny 6,000 people and their signatures. When we talk about the costs of the referendum, I continue to listen to Mr Han and Mrs Porotat, who, of course, sell pumpkins and claim to be selling gold. That's not true. There's no referendum without the law. If there were no law, if it had not been adopted in such a form, the referendum would not have been proposed and there would have been nothing further, so there would have been no costs. You can't claim that the costs are due to the applicants. No, the costs are due to those who have passed the law, and that is you and not the opposition. Why did you change the law two years after the people of 73% decided that archives should remain open? With a 73% majority. So why the change? Why are you deleting what the people said in 2011? Death fear is in the back, that's all. I'll tell you what. Someone said, I think it was Mrs. Popot that SDS abused this law to fight ideologically. No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not billmakers. You proposed and accepted the law, not us. So we can't be the one in any way. When we talk about costs, it's the same as they say it's necessary to recover, the damage after the flood, and there was no flood. First there must be a flood, then you can repair the damage. First it has to be marriage, then it can be a referendum and a decision. It's a pure fact. And there's another fact. If they were at least that smart and proposed implementation on 11 May, some of the opposition's arguments would come out of hand. But that's what you suggested on May 4th. You know exactly that at least half of the Slovenians then take their leave. This is exactly what you know, and you know exactly how it will be possible this year to be at home with three days off seven or more days. And you all know that on vacation comes the last day, which is exactly this Sunday you proposed. And you know exactly that this will affect the number of votes. In this context, according to my assessment, you are violating the Constitution, so there can be no referendum at that time. Of course it will be because it is your decision, but with this you will deprive people of their right to speak at the referendum. Because you're going to influence the fact that there will be fewer. And don't talk about how you're going democracy and I don't know what else. That's not true! If there was a referendum of 25, the costs would also be lower and the costs would have been incurred by you because you passed the law. And there's another irony. Archives are not problematic in any way, except for one piece, namely the Udbov archives. And you know what irony is? That the date of the referendum is decided by the audiences, five of them are in this national assembly. And these people will or will decide when the referendum will take place. And these people will thus protect themselves and their crimes from the past. Criminal acts from the past [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u133	Mr. Gorenak, I ask you to be respectful of your colleagues. We're not talking about that. You're talking about a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u134	She was declared a criminal organization by the Supreme Court. This means that members and associates are criminals. It's over. This was decided by the court, not by me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u135	I just want you to be respectful of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u137	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u138	But they're criminals. What else are they? That's what the court said. And then someone who was an informant of the Udba also tells me: “The Institute of the Referendum is the greatest abuse of democracy.” But when someone who was an associate of the Udba, who was an informant, says that, then democracy is over. It makes sense that we have this situation in this country. It's perfectly logical, because it's still up to those who shouldn't be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. He should be followed by Mrs Masha Kociper, whom I had previously released from the list. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, representatives of the government! In fact, man does not even know where to start, given what has already happened today — not only today but also the last days — around the invitation to tender for this referendum. Let me begin where a fellow Member of Parliament, Mr Han, the leader of the SD Group, spoke quite an untruth. He talked about the fact that we supported the amendment of the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We voted against the four Members, and the two Members were not in the National Assembly. A few times, an unspoken lie then slowly turns into something else. Many times it happens that some people wrongly want certain things interpreted. And such a wrong way of interpreting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was demonstrated several times today. With the amendment of the Constitution, we have determined that Members and Members cannot be proponents of the referendum initiative. However, in Article 169a of the Rules of Procedure, which we have already discussed today, it is very clear that we can, of course, propose initiatives, decrees, laws and so on. It doesn't say anywhere that you need an extra letter, that you have a shoe number of 42, or that you've been drinking 2 deciliters of milk today. But unfortunately, this is how this House is manipulated. The manipulation that is taking place with regard to citizens and citizens, in the sense that we like you so much, that you will only decide on the referendum, and then we prefer you even more and you will talk about European issues when you go to European elections. These are all manipulations. And it's amazing. I have said a few times about the impact and the possibility of amending and influencing the legislation of the opposition Member. None. Nothing more than any citizen, if, of course, the coalition doesn't have mercy on him and if the coalition at a given time does. What will be the impact or impact of 8 MEPs in the European Parliament? It is best to elect in this country, on 25 May, all 8 Members and Members who will belong to the European People's Party, because this is the strongest and will be the strongest in the future, as this will have at least some impact on European legislation. To say that it is irrelevant whether the election will cost a million 400 or a million 300 or what it would cost is inappropriate. Just remember what you were doing when you picked up the last umbrella from the road infrastructure, let alone to stay behind the asphalt shovel. And just remember how cynically you've been adopting the real estate tax law all night. How much effort, energy and will were on our side to tell you what was wrong. God give him well, to late Franz Zagozno, so hard he came to the Committee on Agriculture to explain certain things, and it was passed as a bulldozer in a china shop. Today, when he fell, you'll say, "We'll somehow, we'll borrow another billion dollars or we'll owe people." At least part of the coalition was to expose those bad loans in the banks, the rest of you objected.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u141	Mr. Pukšič, let me remind you of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u142	You don't have to remind me, because what I'm saying is I'm actually answering some of the debates that have taken place before me and, of course, there have been no special warnings. In our presentation to the Slovenian People's Party, we made it clear and loud that the archives should be fully open. How many are left? 10 or 20%, all others, who apparently also participated in the arrests and killings of those after World War II who had the wrong ideology or surname, destroyed, burned, or put the gods somewhere. Someone should be responsible for that, but unfortunately it's none of that. So if citizens and citizens have raised more than 46,000 votes, of course, this must also be respected. If you do not want to combine the referendum with the European elections, you can combine it with the local elections. Nothing will happen in the meantime, and nothing so drastic will change that we cannot move this to local elections and hold a referendum at local elections. But what you're going to do now is complete demagogy. Some colleagues have already talked about Thursday, May 1st, Friday is a holiday, then Saturday and Sunday, and some have already announced that they will have leave early, so on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. People are just gonna take advantage of it. I believe that many will also plant potatoes on the soil, that they will, of course, have potatoes and cabbage for the fall, because in autumn, there is likely to be no more pensions or health care or anything, because the question is how long will Europe give you money. The commitments that have taken place since 2008 are enormous and catastrophic to this country. It is not catastrophic when this referendum, the day before or the day after, with one or the other elections, but what you have been doing with this country since 2008 is catastrophic. To say that the opposition or SDS is responsible for the costs incurred by the referendum is, of course, an insult to citizens and citizens who have signed. Declarations that it is necessary to prepare well, to think carefully, and so on, are, of course, ordinary political footnotes, which in this case you are spending unprecedentedly. The fact that Eva Irgle is not the drafter of the decree has been played, I am therefore convinced, as I have already said, that disagreement with the Rules of Procedure will be demonstrated when some other institutions discuss this too. But then you will apologize again, and you will say that you have made a mistake, as you have done many times. You have also probably received e-mails from colleagues and colleagues saying that those Members and Members who will vote for the 4th of May, or the separation of the referendum from one of the elections scheduled for this year, will be presented with a position of €75 000 to pay for the referendum themselves. I think the citizens are right. If I recall correctly, it was also said that this person did not sign an initiative to call a referendum, but said that we should not act so irresponsiblely. And why do we impose responsibility on the electorate instead of doing it on our own? There is also this possibility. If the coalition, now that more than 46,000 signatures have been collected, came with the amendment of the current law to change, as it was, then there would be no reason for the referendum. You also have this option, but these are the options you have in the coalition. You who have the majority. The opposition can only suggest and warn of violations of the Rules of Procedure and the drafting of legislation on the government side, which is contrary to the Constitution. All we can do is warn. There's nothing else we can do. We can vote against it and then, of course, in the end, the Constitutional Court, as it has done several times. But it is your responsibility to do so and whether you will ever listen to the opposition for God's sake. You obviously don't have that purpose. And one more thing. Someone from the SD said that this was a political arrangement where, at the same time as the referendum and the elections, they would bring more people to the polls. Now, coalition MPs and Members, whether you are calling on citizens and citizens not to go to the elections and not to go to the referendum, because you will do everything you can to make this as difficult as possible for them as possible, so that it will be at the most inappropriate time and so on. Is that your goal? That's your goal, isn't it? On the other hand, you're talking about how you stand up for pensions, that's what's gonna happen. He won't. Because of these three and several billion that went to the banks, some, but only some, of course, breathe again. These too will be emptied, and then you will not have anything to take from the citizens. In short, I think it's stupid. I will, of course, personally support the amendment tabled by the SDS Group, and I hope that there will also be some understanding in the coalition that you will listen to. Not because of the opposition, but because of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša, Mr Han, applied for the replica. [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, he said he had a replica. Procedural? Here you go, Mr. Jursha, you have a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On this point, I would like to say that we have sat on the President's College, where we have agreed precisely and correctly on how today's meeting is to be held, when all the views of the Members of Parliament are drawn together. Since some people are constantly talking about things that we agreed not to talk about, I ask if you have agreed with your Members on what we agreed to do there. You're not. The result is, of course, such a discussion, which is not in line with that agreement, because we said that we would follow the rules of procedure and work in accordance with the rules of procedure. I am very sorry, dear colleagues, that you are discussing the direction in which you are discussing, but the rules of procedure - someone has said today that he has been accepted by a two-thirds majority - would also be respected. I will not talk about the content, my debate was very brief and in it I told my personal position and the position of my colleagues and colleagues, so how will we decide when and what date we will support. Everyone else is talking about pensions now, they're mixing everything together, and in the end, we don't know what we're talking about here today. I propose, Madam Vice-President, that you stop all such discussions that are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u145	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. I am indeed once again reminding you of what the agreement is and what the rules of procedure are. At the same time, I note that, when the debate has really moved away from the agenda item, I have always warned and I can also find that we are more or less within the agenda item. Mr. Han, you have a replica, if I understand correctly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u146	Because he mentioned me, but I'm going to replicate to apologize to the Slovenian People's Party. Franc, not you, but the Slovenian People's Party, because I said something in my performance earlier that it doesn't. I went to check and apologize. Indeed, the four of you voted against, and Mr Presecnik and Mr Bogovich were not at the meeting. So I apologize to the Slovenian people's party. Franz Puksich, you're on the run! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u147	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. Mr Puksic has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u148	My procedural proposal will be as follows. Of course, I did not expect any excuse at all, but I did not know that Mr Han, as before Evo, relieved me of his mandate. But you know, buddy Han, that's not how it works. You've already destroyed the country. You're not going to do all this. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u149	What is your procedural proposal, Mr. Puksic?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u150	However, as far as you are concerned, I think it would be right for the previous coalition Members to propose a proposal for the chairman of your procedural proposal, because you did not hear what they were saying. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u151	What is your procedural proposal, Mr. Puksic?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u152	My procedural suggestion is that Han used or abused the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u153	Thank you very much. This procedural proposal was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I hope it's yours, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u154	I'll tell Pukšič I'm sorry I apologized.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u155	Thank you very much. If we have now cleared everything up, we can proceed with the debate. First of all, he has a word on behalf of the Magi's proponent. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u156	Thank you. Some are frightened, but I am concerned that the President of the Business Commission, with such contempt, is saying some things that should be thoroughly reconsidered. For he is the steward of the Rules of Procedure, and he should think about what he declares and how he acts, not that he speaks with such ease of speech about certain things. When I was talking about 40,000 600 signatures, I specifically pointed out that this is the number of support reviews for the referendum. By notifying that 40 thousand 600 are adequate and properly completed support, I was also granted a request for a referendum as chairman of the committee for consideration. I carried out the procedure, presented it several times, and in the end, without any objection, it was accepted that I was a rapporteur of the Committee. As soon as the committee accepted this without objection, I also became a motion for a decision. So much for who can and who can't and who takes who and who doesn't. Do not discriminate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Procedurally has Mr. Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u158	Madam Vice-President, I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be followed and that article 169a, which was discussed today, be taken into account. To date, the SD, Mrs Majde Potrata or anyone we have received has no letter that it is necessary to identify yourself in particular as a motion for a decision as a Member, because there is nothing else you can do.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I do not think it is necessary to stress once again the need to stick to the rules of procedure. Mag. Masha Kociper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Today, we are discussing again more than 5 hours on one issue, where I think that the debate could be concluded in a very short time and we would spend time on something else to solve the real problems of this country, which are many. But I stopped by because I was actively involved in changing the constitutional regime in the field of referendum, and I very, very well remember what we promised people back then. We promised people that we would take the referendum out of the political time frame and leave it to the citizens, that it would become exactly what it should be, given the comparative constitutional arrangements and the role of the referendum in our constitution, the highest form of direct democracy that people will use when they want to decide on the most important issues. Today, when I listen to this debate, I wonder, of course, whether this constitutional change has actually achieved what we wanted. I will begin by signing it first under the request for a referendum, Mrs Eva Irgle. Today, some argue if it is a Member. There's no doubt in my mind that it is. I'm sure she's an MP. But when I voted on the referendum change, I was convinced that it was the intention of all of us to abuse the referendum rules that had been implemented in the past by political parties, to stop and that the referendum would become the will of people who are also used by citizens, namely those who do not have a vote in Parliament and the power of decision, in order to make public what they want and want. As I watched once again a handful of SDS Members walk down the stairs with the boxes in hand, proudly, a Member of Parliament, along with Mr Beast, I did not feel like it was a human referendum, a referendum demanded by the citizens. The decision we put into people's hands to tell them what they want. And at that time, I remember exactly how we all agreed that the referendum, which always means the cost for the country, should apply only to the most important political issues. Is this an issue related to archives the most important political issue? Here, of course, the debate is possible. It's obvious to some. It's not personal for me, especially since we're all in the coalition convinced that we're opening archives with this and not closing. And I think that was already well founded, and today we have agreed that we will not talk about the content of the law, even though some do not. In Positive Slovenia, we supported NSI's reasonable proposal that this referendum should not be carried out, but that this money should be used to digitise archives that would allow people to access archival material from home through computers, which would actually open up archives even more. I would like to say that a particular group of citizens has decided differently, but unfortunately that is not the case. One political party, which failed in Parliament with its proposals, decided to use the referendum for its purposes this time, as it had done many times before. But we are here today to discuss a specific date for this referendum. At the same time, I would also like to remind you that this will be the first referendum following a change in constitutional arrangements and, therefore, for all of us, the possibility of seeing how this change of constitution works in practice. At that time, we all expressed together in this House the view that a large enough majority of people must vote against the proposal, so that this proposal adopted by the democratically elected National Assembly falls. And now we have the opportunity to verify this on our own date with respect to this provision and this institution. Whether the law adopted by the democratically elected National Assembly — no matter what anyone thinks about it — is the way laws are adopted around the world — in the procedure or this law has so many opponents that it will be decided by a large enough number of people that this law will fall. Let's have a look! Then why should we mix up such important decisions about the most important democratic institution such as the referendum with one election? Let us see if people are willing to come and plead on this issue. I therefore do not understand in any way the opposition's opposition that the date of the referendum decision and the date of the election are separate. But I understand they're afraid there won't be enough voters on this date. But this is their problem, and this risk was taken at the moment they decided to hold a referendum on this issue. It is now necessary to bring this decision to an end, to carry out a referendum campaign and to attract your voters and all those whom you think this law will attack. Personally, I find it extremely correct, both for the European elections and for this campaign linked to the referendum, so that both of them do not interfere. Otherwise, we can well imagine how the referendum campaign would interfere with the campaign for European elections, so that in the end, citizens would really not know what they are really deciding, because this would, as always, turn into an ideological fight. And when I'm in an ideological battle. I agree with those who say that attacking this law is also an ideological struggle, and I do not agree that European elections are being used to fight ideologically. Those who are this ideological struggle and the division of people over and over again, do not mix it with the European elections. I think that in recent years, even in the last two or three years, Europe has shown nicely how important it is for each of us to live. And we will slowly have to be aware that Europe is not something out there that does not concern us, but something that still concerns us and that we should also cooperate and change, which does not suit us. But we do not fit in with many things that are happening there, and therefore we have the opportunity to elect our European Members and to influence that things will take place differently in the future, of course, within the framework that is appropriate for our country and its size. I also agree to look at the costs this time, but those who talk about the costs must again take responsibility for themselves. Those who have injected this referendum, firstly signed by Mrs Eva Irgle, have also had to rent the costs, and it is unfair that you now place this responsibility on us. You say they could be smaller if it were as you suggest, but it has been said many times today that if there were no referendum, there would be no referendum. So I propose that those who decide on this form of direct democracy take responsibility for all that is involved. That the rules of procedure in this National Assembly are not respected is something I am extremely disturbed by. I am extremely disturbed by the fact that he is not always respected by one and the same, and I ask again and again how this national assembly would work if everyone were to use the methods used by Mr Tanko and Mr Pukšič. What if all Members continued to abuse procedural proposals? Where would they have come from? I think that the rules of procedure should be respected and not interpreted as appropriate. This really should be something that everyone here would consider to be a fact. A SDS party can't make such an image out of it every time something doesn't go the way they want it to go and terrorise us all in this way. As always, there has been a lot of talk today about responsibility, especially those who have been Members or other political officials for years and years, who have never taken on their responsibilities. At the end of this debate, I ask who in this country will take responsibility for the sharing of people on an ideological basis over and over and over again, years and years. When are these wounds going to heal because someone's going to stop squeezing "javo na new" in them? And those who say this archive law closes are doing exactly that because you know that's not true. I will vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I must warn you, Mrs Kociper, that in the last part, when you were punishing compliance with the Rules of Procedure, you too came from the agenda. Now he's got a procedural Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. You have warned Mrs Kociper that she has actually entered into her debate into an area that is not covered by correspondence in the National Assembly. There is no record of that. And I think it is extremely irresponsible, inappropriate, unworthy for anyone in this National Assembly to be disqualified by violating the Rules of Procedure. You don't have anything to report to me today either. You can't say that I haven't talked about the application of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of the National Assembly and I would like to ask anyone not to pay attention to the Rules of Procedure, at least to see if there is any record of it in the National Assembly. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, as explained by Mrs Kociper, is totally inappropriate, unworthy and only points to the level to which they have embarked in the debate on this item of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I think I've already cleared that up in my previous response to Mrs Kociper. Dr Ljubica Jelusič has been reported as the next. Dr. Jelusich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u164	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. A nice welcome to all of you, especially to the Minister and his associates! I would like to say that I support the resolution on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, as proposed for today's extraordinary session. I also support the content of the question and the proposed date for voting at the referendum, i.e. 4 May. I support the decree because we have a basis for it in the request of 40,000 and more voters and voters. However, I think that this referendum is needed not only because of these 40,000 and more voters, but because of all citizens and citizens who have the right to be defined on any day of the year as to how they see the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. I am sure – and I think that this should be highlighted in one special campaign for this referendum – that the law that we are considering has opened the archives most so far. I wonder what is in these archives that the SDS party wants to lock them up for citizens and citizens in a way that attempts to campaign against this law by converting the facts. The referendum is certainly necessary, but it would not be necessary for members of the Slovenian Democratic Party in particular to recognise the rules of parliamentary party democracy and the legitimacy of decisions in the National Assembly. Let us not ask ourselves why citizens and citizens do not have a good opinion on the functioning of the National Assembly, because also through the initiatives of Members they can see that you do not believe in the political system of party democracy. It is therefore not a matter of changing the electoral system, but of changing the political system of this country in order to match your ideas. I would like to point out that the referendum on the law that we are considering today is a very national and internal issue. We were also reminded by the President of the European Parliament, Mr Martin Schulz, when, at his visit to our National Assembly, he replied to Mr Tank's question that he did not want to define this internal issue. If we understood diplomacy in the response of the President of the European Parliament, we would understand, of course, that it is probably not good to mix the date of the referendum on the issue of the law governing the security of documentary and archival material and Slovenian archives with issues relating to European elections. Some colleagues say that making fun of people is the fact that two votes or elections are convened in the same month. I think it's more like fooling around if someone wants to have a referendum on the day of youth. I don't think it was about having a referendum on the day of the European elections, but it was about having a referendum on that day that the history of this country knew as a day of youth. And in the agitprop SDS this fact would come out terribly well and it would be an integral part of the campaign and political agitation that we have been receiving today in this national assembly all the time. In short, it is necessary to support this decision and to make sure that as many citizens and citizens as possible come to this referendum and express their views on how to open archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Daniel Krivec, followed by Mr Aljoša Jerič, Dr Jožef Kunič and Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm going to stick to the ruling myself, and maybe with some comparison I've come out of this topic, but when I listen to today's debate, I find that on this side, or whoever's sitting in the SDS, we're somehow all-powerful. According to my colleagues, we planned everything. In ignorance, we introduced the Archives Act in order to call for a referendum in the next step because we knew that the law would be adopted in the National Assembly. We also knew that there would be no veto in the State Council, so we planned a date for the referendum. We didn't even think about the 25th of May and the day of our youth, but obviously we knew we were going to gather voices and do it on purpose. These were the theories and views of most coalition MPs. It is our fault that this law was formed in the National Assembly at the time of the biggest economic crisis in this country. It's our fault. That is why we are also guilty of convincing citizens that they have given 47,000 signatures and therefore we are also guilty that the European elections are on May 25th and we are guilty of trying to save citizens some money. Finally, we will be guilty of not having citizens decide on the same day on two matters. Although the Law on Referendums and Human Initiative in Article 32 states that two or more referendums may be held for the day of the referendum. But you keep saying that when we passed new legislation to the referendum and the human initiative, we didn't know what we were voting on. Here we have clearly stated that people on the same referendum day can also determine more things. If they can decide on several referendums, they can also decide on elections and referendums. So much for your credibility and credibility when you quote legislation that you yourself have adopted. Earlier there was a talk about the promise we made when we adopted legislation that this initiative would be primarily in the hands of voters. It's in the electorate's hands. Forty-seven thousand signatures have been collected, and there's nothing we can do about it. But another commitment was made when we were preparing the electoral law. There has been talk all the time about trying to limit the number of referendum days and the number of days when people have to vote, because we have prepared our system so that more votes, more elections, more referendums are possible. That's what we promised. The predecessor spoke about only one part, but we also promised that, particularly in order to lower the costs of these referendums and elections. And that is exactly what we have proposed with these dates in our amendments, which I also support. When you say that costs will not be higher, you only talk about these additional 1.3 million funds that the state administration will have on its shoulders if there is a common term. Otherwise, these funds will amount to 3 million and a half. But none of you will ever ask, even in other legislative changes, how much will citizens have to pay because we will charge them for two days – once for the elections, once for the referendum. That's not what you're ever interested in. You're starting to see if they're able to decide two things on the same day. A Slovenian proverb says that a man is difficult, but women don't have a problem. If there were a second-sex minister, I wouldn't wonder if it was possible to make two decisions on the same day. Finally, the minister himself in Odessa acknowledged why the date could be a problem. At Mr Bergant's question why they do not agree that the common date of the European elections and referendum and whether there is any other reason, he said very well that it was possible. But it went this way to mobilize the electorate. But obviously you'll be more likely to mobilize voters because it's a day of youth and maybe another birthday, so I really don't understand how you're not getting any money saved in this time of year to do any other activity in this country. Nor does the law we have adopted speak of the fact that no more decisions are made on the same day. Your minister says that this is your strategy of deceiving people, not mobilising them anymore, and you are also denied by the cost of wanting something good for the citizens. And also what was said in the adoption of the new legislation on the referendum and the people's initiative was in the direction of simplification, appreciation and everything else. Like I said, maybe only men should be excluded from this double decision, but women could certainly make the same decision on the same day, even two things, if that's what you're worried about. None of the arguments you have confirm your thesis, unless you are convinced that we have also set a day of European elections, which I doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u167	Thank you very much. She asked Dr. Ljubica Jelusic for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u168	Thank you very much. First time. I protest against cynical talk about how many things men or women can suddenly think and decide. Another time. The Law on Referendums and People's Initiative speaks of the fact that there can be more referendums on the same day, but it does not talk about the fact that on the same day, voting for a referendum and a different type of election, which is logical, as it deals only with referendums and human initiatives, but not with other types of elections. Third time. There would be no cost for this referendum if we did not want this referendum in the SDS. Fourth time. Do not underestimate active citizens who are willing to go to elections and do not take this as a cost, but as their fundamental civil right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, a replica of the replica is not possible. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greeting on my part, too! The referendum is the most direct form of democratic decision-making on an individual matter, so I welcome not only this once-in-a-lifetime referendum issue, but every time collective decision on matters that are common to all of us. The referendum, at the same time with its democraticity, requires that the electorate and the electorate be held responsible for the decisions taken, since in this case citizens do not transfer decisions to other bodies, such as the National Assembly or the Government, but decide matters directly on the same day, all together. Regardless of whether a matter is decided by the National Assembly or by the Government or by all the citizens of the referendum, it is essential that quality information on the content of the matter to be decided in order to make a quality decision on a particular matter. It is necessary to provide quality information both on the existing regulation of a matter and on the arrangements that would have been in place if the referendum had succeeded. And if we add that the whole matter is professionally complex, then the whole process of learning what is being decided and what it means, if the referendum is adopted, is so much more difficult. Especially since it is a large electoral body that needs to know the details mentioned in order to be able to make a competent decision. Without detailed knowledge of matter, however, it is easy to decide the prey of mass manipulation. Due to all these facts, it is extremely important that the entire process of electoral campaign, media information and professional round tables takes place effectively and transparently, without or with as little political manipulation and simplification as possible, which would undoubtedly have occurred more clearly if we had a referendum with the European elections at the same time. I therefore support the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Culture, which defines a separate date for the implementation of the referendum, on 4 May 2014. With regard to the evidence of the higher costs of this separate implementation of the referendum, it is, of course, weighted between the quality on the one hand and the price for this quality on the other. As we know, it is very difficult to have the highest quality for the lowest price. Otherwise, those who consider the adoption of the archive law to be harmful have nothing to fear, because you will win the referendum whether the referendum will be May 4 or May 25th, and please correct me, my fellows, if I am wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr Jožef Kunič has the floor, followed by Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Mrs Aleksandra Osterman and Mr Srečko Meh. Here you go, Dr. Joseph Kunic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I think this referendum is important. It's true that we talk about whether we open or close archives, but I don't want to discuss it. However, I think that archives are very important both for the country and for our citizens, for many individuals, and in many archives there are many things about our lives, many times very contradictory. So this is an important referendum, and that is why I would like to bring it as close to people as possible. Are there abuses of referendums or not? Of course they do. My colleague, Mr. Gorenak, spoke about this. Let us only remember the referendum in one of the European countries on the construction of minerals. I think it's a typical abuse of referendums. I wouldn't talk about abuse with us. If a certain number of people have gathered and decided that they are for the referendum, then the referendum must be. But it is two important decisions. One is European elections and one is a referendum on archives. Many would come to the European elections and not to the archive referendum. But many would say things about archives, but they don't like Europe, because we well know that the number of Eurosceptics in Europe is increasing, and they may not turn to voters. I think it's necessary to let people have this freedom. In addition, any such decision should be given some thought. True, some think nothing, but some consult and think about it. And let them do so in such a way that they do not have to vote on the same day and place and decide on two absolutely different content. That is why I support the proposal that the referendum and the European elections are not on the same day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u174	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. The decree we have before us, which you are about to discuss today, which you have proposed on the Committee on Culture and in which you are proposing on 4 May, about three weeks before the European elections, points to something that, as colleague Grims has already said, is against the constitutional principles of economics. First constitutional principle. Comrade Grimes, like Mr. Wolf on the Commission, spoke of 2.2 million euros in more costs. I'm not surprised we actually have two elections in one month. I'm not surprised to be monitoring the entire economy of this government. Just look at the example of a good year ago when we had the possibility of drawing funds from the European Stability Mechanism, where in the negotiations you somehow agree on at least three percentage points of a lower interest rate than we actually did. Last year's 7 billion, this year's projected 7.7. We've been in debt for ten billion in a year and a half. The European Stability Mechanism could be responsible for around 2%, we have committed about 6%. That's a 4% difference. Already 3% of the difference in billions per year amounts to more than EUR 30 million. In ten years, in ten-year bonds, 300 million. So when we owe 10 billion of the issue of Slovenian bonds, we have 3 billion, EUR of difference, people of God, just from this title. 2.2 million, ladies and gentlemen, is for this policy and for this government a cough of feline. They don't care about the principle of rationality. Since, of course, we are talking about May 25th, which we have been discussing as proposing, I must admit that my fellow Members are very wrong. Of course, this is not a European theme and does not comply with the European elections. Because part of this policy, which has ruled in Slovenia for sixty years, not fifty-five years, but sixty years, of course, is not European. This is not a European policy, it is not a European left, it has nothing to do with the European Left and, of course, the one who will speak for the referendum, we do not know whether he would surround the two parties who have 'positive' and'social' in the name of 'positive'. I do not know why I would appoint these people to the European Parliament. This really has nothing to do with Europe, and we may find this horrifying in the Commission on Petitions, where, on basic issues, these people voted against all the standards in force in the European Union. And of course that's the problem. That's the key problem. The key problem is that their principles are not such as European principles and the principles of their allies in the European Parliament. These are not European socialists. If they were, they would first resign to the five Members who are former members of the SDV. Then, as a party, we would give up on Mr Gorenz, who is rightly suspected of at least 10 murders and of cooperating in this. He's a member of your party, a respected SD. This is the least we could do to prove that you are slowly becoming a European left [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u175	Please focus on the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u176	It's a focus. That's the truth. That's what people need to be told. First time. Debt over the European Stability Mechanism, which they had the opportunity to take advantage of. At least 3 billion in the next 10 years, now 2.2 million, is obviously cat change. That is why the man who steps on the polls on May 25th and picks up each other’s leaves is, of course, concerned. I can't go around the left if I have a referendum on the other side that we're all talking about. I'm not talking about whether the archives are open or closed. I think that we have explained this and that experts and people who are archiving specialists have also explained this. And there's no doubt about it. Now it's just a question of whether or not you're gonna throw us all the way to the end. Look, I am voting for May 4th if you promise to clean up and start acting like a European left to win the normal competition that is in place in European countries. First you have to feel it. You have to live this life. You have to go to Europe, you have to live in Switzerland, Austria, Germany to see how it works.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u177	Please, if you really focus on the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u178	I'm focusing exactly. That goes for you, too, Madam Vice President. In Switzerland, five referenda are decided in one day, but you don't know that. In Germany, the elections in Austria, a whole series of such elections exist in practice when surrounding. [[adverts from benches]] Mrs. Jelusich, please stop. [[adverts from benches]] Just promise me that the people who were former SDV associates will be sent to the history dump. The Slovenian nation will miss it sooner or later. It will happen as it did in Hungary. A few years ago they cleaned up. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] They cleaned up the people. People are [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u179	Mr. Breznik, please hold the level of debate!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u180	These policies have been removed and removed 20 kilometers from Budapest, they have made a museum revolution, and today they are taking people out of kindergartens and primary schools to show them how these people worked. [[…]] And they show them their killing sites, show them everything else. And you know what's in the archives? In the archives is hidden the DNA of your client and other clients of the transition left. It's hidden in the archives, the DNA, your youth, how you formed, how you came to power with murder, and how you over the Udba over 40 years you've been fortifying this power. [[…]] [[ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u181	Your Honor, Mr Franz Breznik, such an enemy speech does not belong in this Chamber. I'm asking for correctness.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u182	Can you tell me what's not holding? Can you tell me what sentence my words don't hold? Can you tell me? Madam Vice President, at this moment, tell me what is not in my speech? Isn't history accurate? And I'm gonna apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u183	Keep talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u184	Is Mr. Gorenc, who is rightly suspected of more than ten murders and a former member of SDV, a member of the SD party? Are the former members of the SDV sitting in the Slovenian Parliament today, in 2014, and are the politicians who support it? That's what I'm interested in. And here's the DNA of our societies. He's keeping these companies company so I can be punctual. Tell me that. Now tell me, Madam Vice President, isn't that right? If I lied, if I'm not right right now, I'll apologize to everyone I mention. Is there anything wrong? [[adverts from benches]] Look, Mrs Potrata, I believe that you will also stand before a higher court when the Austrians and the Germans demand the extradition of the visible members of your party. I hope that you will stand and defend them when the European task of belonging enters into force. This is what will happen, and then I hope that the Slovenian people will finally overlook that you are leaving. But if you promise to clean it up, I'll vote four today. May. Let this be the end and death of the greatest totalitarianism in this area, which is responsible for more than a million victims, and let this be the final completion of a transitional left. Let this left become a European left, a normal left, with serious left-wing principles known to civilized nations. I want that as a young politician. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u185	Thank you very much. She asked for a replica. Majda Potrat, then Mr. Brultz has a procedural procedure. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Mr. Breznik, you've already insulted me at the petition committee's sessions so much that I don't even want to jog my memory. You compared me to a 90-year-old Nazi, but now you're saying that I'm going to stand before the Supreme Court because I was once a member of the Communist Union. At the petition committee meeting, where there was a speech on cleaning up the Udbov archives, you allowed Mr Lejak to hand over my party file, so it looked like I was in the SDV. Now you're threatening me. You're threatening me. And now you dare explain here racist theories about my client's DNA and I don't know what else. The party I once belonged to, which I now belong to, was not banned under any regime, was not considered criminal, and you have nothing to put me in court. It's unacceptable what you're doing. You think you know something about history. You know one thing about history. You think you're familiar with the European situation. No! No! On such simple matters as the referendums in Switzerland, you say your ignorance. Let's get disciplined and stop complaining. What you're doing is totally unacceptable. You claim here and demand that the Vice President prove what's not true. You prove it true! If you're saying something, it's not a sacred truth. How do you know the codes? How do you know them? The people who dealt with the archives don't know the coder, and you say you do. Do what you do for your own private use, joy and love, but when you talk about me standing before the Supreme Court, that's an insult, and at least what I expect is an apology. And for all that nonsense or nonsense, if you want, which you've given me at the sessions of the petition commission so far. You're a modern politician? You're a modern politician. That's what McCarthy's committees used to do. Have you ever watched a week's sequel to Danish television? What do people do, how do they destroy people? You're doing it now, precisely by destroying people. I'm very sorry that I got upset because you're not worth it to make me upset about you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that in further discussions, as far as possible, whether we are coalition or opposition Members, we really retain the level of debate as it is appropriate for the temple of democracy. Please. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u188	I have a replica because it's been repeatedly called the party I'm in, and I'm very proud of it. In this shell, with this card, he hopes to beat the crap out of him and insult everyone because he knows I can't get him to court. Mr. Beznik, who with the murder spree came to power? Social Democrats? What are you, crazy? Who can clean up, and what can we clean up? The Nazis were cleaning up and we had what we had. DNA. Who was doing DNA and skull measurements to prove they belonged to the same client? Who? Is that what you want in Slovenia? Only through my body. I have grandchildren and children, and I will not allow everyone to have this debate in this House because it is a holy city, my dear man. Every word has to fall on a hard floor. No offense. And that wasn't the first time today, but it's been a number of times. Today we are talking about a referendum and there is no need to clean anyone in this Slovenia. None. Let the judicial authorities do what needs to be done, not by Parliament or by a party or by Beznik. You can't clean anyone, because you'll have to clean them first in your line, because some have the same DNA as Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u189	So your procedural proposal was, Mr Mirko Brulc, that the level of debate was as appropriate? I understand. Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Franz Breznik both raised their hand. I think Mr. Breznik was a little earlier? Here you go, Mr. Breznik, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u190	First time. I spoke of such cleansing as Nazism and Mr Brulc, I do not know where you lived, but in this century we had three totalitarian systems of Europe: fascism, which lasted twenty-one years, Nazism, which lasted twelve years, and we have a communist system that had the most victims and still lasted. That's it. This 97-year communist system did not have its nürnber processes, people were not convicted of all crimes [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u191	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u192	That's what I'm talking about. He didn't get a legal epilogue and it's time for the legal epilogue to happen. That's what I'm talking about. However, there are 3,000 700 documents about your members, which know exactly who ordered them, their signatures, and all the codes. First, SDV code 55000 means that he was a permanent associate of the former SDV [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u193	Procedural proposal. That's the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u194	In its 2003 case law, the Supreme Court has in fact stated that archival documents are authentic documents and can be displayed in public, and that is, Mr Brulc, my argument against your non-arguments. Therefore, I ask procedurally, Madam Vice-President, to remind Mrs Potrato and Mr Brulco that if they are discussing the truth and, above all, respect for history, they should be professional. I didn't insult anyone, but of course my arguments were such that they understood it as an insult, because if you don't have any arguments, then of course it's an insult. Of course, people living in the former totalitarian regime do not understand arguments, do not understand parliamentaryism, and because they do not understand parliamentaryism, stop and say we are rude. I'm not rude, nobody's ever told me that, except the two of you here. I wish, Madam Vice-President, that, despite the fact that fellow Members of Parliament are a little older and that I have some respect for older fellow Members of Parliament, I would like you to point them out once again that, if you are discussing, they have given you counter-arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Your procedural proposal was, of course, possible, but before that, I have warned that there is a proper debate in the National Assembly, without offense. Gradually, Mr. Happy Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, is there any point in having such a debate here today? I suggest, Vice President, that we really calm these passions and try to talk about the referendum. The fact that this is an extremely important decision and that we do not have to be offended. And if we're sorry [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, I'll tell you. And if anyone thinks he really has to hurt you to do what Mr. Mirko Brulc suggested, you're sorry that we can sue you or that you can sue us. Do it. Not to hide. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, I really ask you, as well as the Members and Members, whether it makes sense to do what we are now witnessing. That at the end of the debate after not knowing how many hours, we come to the fact that we have not taken a step further, but perhaps even a lot further back. My procedural proposal is to end this debate, discuss the decision and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u197	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that there are still some reported debaters, I believe that those who have intended to discuss it will now take your proposal into account and sign out. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor, followed by Mr Srečko Meh, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Zvonko Černač and Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u198	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! From the content of today's amendment to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and the archives and discussions on this amendment, it is possible to understand two points. One is to set a date for the referendum and the other is to say that it is a little funny, that the government coalition is always trying to turn the blame for the very costs of the referendum into the opposition SDS. And I'm wondering, is there a possible consequence if there's no action? She can't be. And what's the action here? The act is the adoption of a law that closed the archives, what the Government did when it passed this law. And the result is a referendum. And who's responsible now? You'll all be able to give yourself a very simple answer. I'd say it's no accident that access to the archives has closed. This was strictly intended to cover up certain data and certain truths, so this choice of date, regardless of the increased cost of 2.2 million. It is necessary to select and take all measures to ensure that this referendum fails. I am very surprised by the very pleased confirmation of the date by the Democratic Party of Pensioners, which supports a date that is 2.2 million more expensive. I don't understand. Don't they stand for the welfare of the pensioners? How the budget is filled, not how the budget is empty. Here we see the double criteria. Sometimes we have to save a little, but sometimes it doesn't matter. These double criteria are taken from the air here, things are perfectly clear and I am also committed to the archives opening up and that this referendum succeeds, of course, in the cheapest option, which means combining with the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I will talk about the decision and the fact that the decision is necessary and that it is right to decide today and vote on what date is right, without the unnecessary debate leading somewhere else. I think the 4th of May is the right date. But I'm worried about something else. When someone tells me what a modern left is, and I am a member of this left, and tells me how to transform this left, then he also says that European criteria are not good, because we are members of a European party called the left-hand party, as legitimate as any other member of a right-hand party. I'm worried about something else, ladies and gentlemen. If with the referendum question and the referendum decisions and what the SDS actually wants to achieve with the referendum, we come up with what Mr Breznik was talking about, that we will prosecute those for whom the judiciary and others must prove guilty, and that is terrible. But this is about lustration, and this is about dealing with all those people that someone thinks have been doing wrong in the past. They're talking about the Udba. What about ex-Militaries, ex-commanders, inspectors? What about him? Where does that stop, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u201	It's a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u202	However, this must be proved by the judiciary, and the referendum must be the one to answer the question. People need to be told that there is much more to the question than the question of opening archives. When the signatures were collected, the question was also raised if you support the opening of the udbov archives. Of course, it is about opening archives, and this decree, ladies and gentlemen, is a waste of taxpayer money. If we are talking about spending at least a million euros of our taxpayer's money because of this referendum, it seems to me that this is an inappropriate waste. That's why I think I could suggest, as someone else suggested, that you withdraw this referendum question, and we solved all the complications. As someone else, he suggests that you vote for it or for it. That is why, in my opinion, it is a matter of playing, ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, with tax money. You're playing with at least a million 200 thousand euros that we're going to spend on this. And that seems inappropriate to me, and that is what citizens and citizens need to be told as well. Dispersion of Money Someone was also talking about DNA. This debate is extremely dangerous, and it is extremely dangerous to think about it. Of course, it's a fingerprint that someone is giving to all of these issues. Let me repeat, this fingerprint gives with all the SDS resources, in order to prevent, however, everything that is necessary. Even with this referendum. That's why I think the date of May 4 is extremely appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Next up is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. You have a replica, sir? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, did you recognize yourself in Mr. Happy Meh's debate? Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u204	I'm probably the only one in the police force, so you can't say I didn't. Very briefly, Mr. Meh. There wouldn't be a referendum if there wasn't law. And don't talk nonsense about the costs. Second. As far as the police and the Udba are concerned. You need to know the difference. The uniformed police have always done what they do today and what they did at the time. Saving caramboles, dealing with public order and peace and crime. We know exactly what Uda was doing. She was killing. Ask the people around you a little bit about what they were "snatched on". Inspectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u205	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. I don't know if you all know that in our documentation a comparative review of access to archival material has been prepared in EU countries and that this survey has found that the archives of former public security services are almost fully accessible only in the Czech Republic and Slovenia, while in other countries of the former communist regime there are legal restrictions on access to potentially controversial data. And so open, even the most open archives between European countries, this government is expected to open even more. Sorry, we are not naive enough to believe this and if we let some of us have problems with whether we are citizens and voters or Members of Parliament, whether we can sign or not, whether we can bring signatures or not, some of you have talked about letting people go. Aren't we human? Can't we decide freely if we sign, bring signatures and so on? In such an hourly debate, you have not given a single reason why May 4th would be better than May 25th. The excuses in the style that voters are not able to do two jobs at the same time; that we will evaluate the referendum if it comes to an election day; that we need to talk only about the referendum, that people will get to know matter well, are irrelevant. By 25 May, we could have known for three weeks longer and would have known the law even more. Of course, I know that it is most rational for the referendum to be on 25 May. I would like to know how you will perform the days before the referendum at the time of the May Day, when early voting is possible. On Thursday and Friday, when the holidays are held, the election committees will work all day, and instead of going to the sea or anywhere else, people will go to the referendum. This means that you are impeding or making rights more difficult for citizens. Don't tell me we're doing this. I will also read to you what the minister has said, and it also clearly exposes what you want and what you do. Mr Bergant asked him: "If a referendum were to be held on election day, for example in foreign countries, this is not particularly unusual, of course the SDS party as a proponent would have significantly more opportunities to achieve the desired result. About 330,000 votes required under the new legislation. If we went to the referendum just for that reason, of course, the probability of getting this result would be significantly lower because it would be faster than the voter response. Is it not your belief that the referendum should be specifically linked to this?" And the minister said, "Maybe so." Maybe so. I'm sure he will, too. God does not allow us to help people and to be in order for the referendum to succeed. Therefore, all this false talk about how you respect the signatories and respect that it is a referendum and that people decide and tell what they think. You can sell stories like that to someone else, not to us. I will, of course, support our amendment, which speaks of a referendum on May 25th.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Ljubica Jelusic. Dr. Jelusich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I would like to replicate the part in which Parliamentary Jeraj spoke with great sarcasm about whether this government is preparing to open these archives even more in a situation where it has the most open archives in addition to the Czech Republic. This is the issue of the archives of the sociopolitical organisations opened by this amendment, including the last amendment to ZVDAGA. And I'm afraid that you're so horrendous against it because it would probably show in these archives who all of your client was a member of the Communist Union and you probably can't stand this stain. That's why you're so terribly opposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u209	The replica has a mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u210	Since it is on this side that we believe that the referendum must be separate from the European elections, I refer Members Jeraj to her claim that we have not made any wise arguments. Of course, because we never say anything smart about SDS like that. It was said that we only speak nonsense. Smart arguments have been said, the question is just what kind of ears they hear and whether someone also wants to understand the opposite opinion. The fact is, someone who insists so stubbornly on his right will have great problems in the multilateral system and in accepting plurality. And that's the problem. Mrs Jeraj, I think that those of us who discussed the SD Group on behalf of the SD Group have made clever arguments as to why the referendum should be on 4 May. But it is up to you to decide for yourself whether you were able to understand them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Now, in the context of the time available for individual parliamentary groups, I find that Mr Roberto Battelli has the word, followed by Mr Janez Ribič, then Mr Samo Bevk. The procedural proposal is made by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u212	Thank you. According to what Mrs. Jelusichev said. We don't judge or talk about who was in the party and that everyone who was a member of the Communist Union is a problem. The law in force refers to the problem as officials make decisions about certain matters. In fact, you can’t condemn all of them for doing anything because some people actually didn’t and were in a party so that they could be teachers or something like that, or they wouldn’t even have a job. So I suggest you read what's in the current law and what's going to happen with the amendment and you don't condemn it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, what do you want? Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u214	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! You have previously read the list of those who have been reported to the debate and, of course, you have read my name. But now you've gone down a dozen places to Mr. Robert Battelli and said that he's the only one who has the time available. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u215	SDS spent minutes. What do you use now?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u216	Our parliamentary group, of course, had time to go, but before me they were ready to discuss the three members of Positive Slovenia, who had more than an hour to discuss. I believe they have no argument on this issue, so they can't discuss it either, because it's very difficult to explain to people that within three weeks they're going to have to go to voters twice and that this will cost 3 million euros and a half, which means 8 thousand 750 monthly pensions if we take the pension. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u217	Mr Zvonko Černač, please move directly to a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u218	And it's hard to argue the fact that taxpayers' money, people's money, literally out the window, and they make fools out of them. Of course, they cannot defend it, so they have more than an hour left. I propose, procedurally, that those who would like to discuss and have something to say about this madness, which is the subject of Minister Grilc and the ruling coalition with this call for a referendum on an inappropriate day – while also violating the individual constitutional provisions on the possibility of everyone to decide in a legitimate manner and on a legitimate issue – this will allow this time to be rescheduled for discussion by those who would like to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u219	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Those who have been in the Chamber all the time have had the opportunity to hear that Mr Srečko Meh has tabled a procedural proposal to shorten this debate in some way, and I believe that it is possible that Members and Members of Positive Slovenia, some, in view of the level of some debates so far, have renounced the word. If necessary, they will be able to discuss the amendments tabled. However, since he was spent on the rest of his time, it is Mr Roberto Battelli's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. I think the message of the referendum a few years ago and the message of these almost 47 thousand signatures, which have now been gathered, is very clear. In order to ensure that these parts of the archives dealing with the security services – the Udba, the SDV, that is, the political police of the previous regime – remain open. Why? There are more reasons for this, but one is very simple [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u221	We're discussing a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u222	Yeah. Because of its systematic violation of human rights and human dignity, the intimate human being and the systematic threat it poses to all human beings. That's the point. And one day I would like to hear one of those who politicize this issue and who are not only on this side, but also on the other side, if you will, honourable gentlemen, to acknowledge this simple fact before the public and also to describe how it happened and also to tell why. Because if that consciousness did not exist, changes in the 1990 ’ s and later would not have been or would have made sense of the steps that had been taken. About what? About democracy and human rights. Why else? That's the problem. We who know this do not advocate any fascism, Nazism. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u223	Focus on the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u224	And everything we're supposed to. [[…]] This is the tactic and strategy of those who have denied human rights themselves in this name. And that needs to be stopped, and that's what we probably need to get out of this civilizational fuck. What's the difference? Of course, I will therefore vote in favour of the amendment, because it is absolutely pointless to have a referendum on 4 May. The last time we watched elections in a civilized country was at the same time as the 12 referendums were suddenly available to citizens to declare themselves. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I request order in the Chamber. Of course this is your assessment, but usually there is no clapping for individual debates. Mr Janez Ribič will be given the floor, but first he has the procedural Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u226	It depends on how we understand human rights violations. We lived in a country that had its own laws, which had everything the country had to have. In a recognised country, in a world recognised by a country where most of you, honourable Members and Members, have gained better education and better conditions than I have, and in some ways this former system is being debated about what it has done and what it has not had. Human rights [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u227	Procedural proposal, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u228	No, I have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u229	Do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u230	I have a replica of what Mr. Battelli was saying. He was pointing to another side, and I'm answering what he was saying. I'm aware. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u231	Since I've made a procedural proposal because I haven't heard the word "replication," please don't mind me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u232	I'll be done in no time. If it is spoken like this and just so accuses someone, then it seems to me that we are not worthy of what we represent here in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, each of us went to the elections, got the required majority of the votes, and also exposed all the things that need to be exposed. If it is necessary procedurally, I will say that I think that Mr Battelli has taken the time, that it was wrong to do so, and if this is procedural, you must not allow this, because when the decision is being discussed, there is absolutely no need to go into discussion in this way. But that's what I'm talking about. I'm very in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I accept your procedural proposal, which you and some others have already made several times. Mr. Franz Breznik, you want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u234	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd really like to propose something to you. First time. I have spoken today in this House that we also want as Democrats some serious political competition that is somehow on the left and that we want a European left. Now look what Mr. Meh said. Mr. Meh said they followed the laws of the former system. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The same story in a larger hall took place in Nürnberg in November 1945. All the Nazis said that they were law - abiding, including politicians and lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u235	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u236	At that time, the legal profession of all those winners said that this was not the law of civilized nations. And Mr Meh, my colleague Battelli has spoken to you about the rights of civilized nations, about the standardised civilized nations, that is what Mr Battelli is talking about today. And you interrupt it, and I warn you once again, Madam Vice-President, please remind Mr Meh and the others once again to speak with historical accuracy, not to discuss and offend democratic procedures in this country, especially since Mr Battelli said that they had 12 referendums on the day of the election in one civilized country. Not one, 12 referendums. And once again, I ask you to point out, above all, the opposite of me, that the principle of rationality is what we all, and especially public officials, must respect. And once again, I ask you to warn them that they are acting in accordance with some doctrine that has survived and that belongs to the dump of history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of your procedural proposal, I have decided to warn all Members and Members in this Chamber if they are discussing that this debate is correct. We're moving on. He has Mr. Happy Meh on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u238	I protest, Madam Vice President. I did not interrupt Mr Battelli, I had a replica and I responded to what Mr Battelli was talking about. What Mr Beznik is saying, of course, does not belong here, and I agree with you that we are talking about a decision and we are here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, do you have a replica? Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u240	Thank you. With all due respect, but I must say that in a procedural proposal, or in a replica or whatever, Mr Meh did not answer me at any point. It wasn't a replica. A replica of what? What you said wasn't a replica of what I said. You didn't explain anything either.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Your procedural proposal was that you probably did not fully agree. Mr. Janez Fishich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. What we hear here today in the National Assembly is incredible. What we should clear up in the first year of the independent state, we are constantly repeating and repeating. If everyone in this National Assembly is as historically clean as they are today, then why are some left-wing people fighting to be a stand-alone referendum on 4 May, which would bring 2.2 million costs, not together with the European elections on 25 May, when much less money would be given to the referendum. Maybe we should spend no matter how much money we spend, just to clear up this history once and to start acting in a direction to get the country out of the crisis, not forever on these issues. Apparently, someone's afraid a lot of people might come to the referendum. That's the goal. May people always decide and declare the injustice caused by World War II. The position of the Slovenian People's Party is that everyone has the right to a grave where his other living relatives can light a candle, remember it, worship it. Many relatives, precisely because of the destroyed material on the crimes of the totalitarian system and because of limited public access to these materials, cannot do the above - mentioned acts today because they do not know what happened to their relatives or where they were placed for their last rest. Crimes from the past need to be investigated and found out where the victims are and who their bloodbaths are. I don't know why it takes so much talk and so much condemnation today. If there were 46,000 votes for the referendum, the referendum should be held. The referendum should be carried out wisely so that we do not make additional costs to the country, which is 25 May, when European elections are also. I don't know who else can think differently. I'm sorry for the pensioners, too, when we talk about pensions and so on, but we're just giving money and on the other hand we think that by borrowing these holes they're going to kind of patch up. It's more difficult because we owe our children and, of course, us. So once again, I say that voting will show something else, but let people know who will be responsible for these costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the floor, and there is also a possibility for him to propose to the Magi. Spending. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I'll be very brief. I have spoken on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. So I do not want to spoil the good impression that has gone beyond the borders of the coalition, so I would just like to point out that calls for a joint referendum with the European elections show that the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives is only a hostage of the party election campaign for the European elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u245	Thank you very much. It has a text on behalf of the proposer, the Committee on Culture, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u246	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Committee on Culture carried out its task as soon as possible, so that at the prescribed time they could do all that was necessary for the referendum. We've prepared a decree, and you've seen that two amendments have been tabled. Following a democratic path, the National Assembly will decide whether to support amendments or decrees as proposed in its original form. What I believe will be done is that the Committee has done well as the first test of the referendum under the new legislation after we have lost the opportunity to propose a referendum. I would, of course, like to understand how the procedures have been carried out. I can see that the whole explanation for some of them was flawed, and I cannot say that those of us who voted on the Committee on 4 May fought left-handedly, so I don't think we need to prove whether we are clean or not. I regret, however, that the debate on the cross-border decision has gone on and that there have been many insults. The desire for vengeance, the desire for cleansing, the desire for lust for lust will have to be made elsewhere, and this on the committee was not as much as it was today at the meeting of the National Assembly. I therefore propose that the National Assembly decide on the proposed decision and allow the call for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. Two amendments have been tabled and I am first putting to the debate section 3 and the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Would anyone like to discuss the amendment tabled? He does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on Section 3 and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate the fourth section and the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u248	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. I object to the amendment tabled, which speaks of voting in the referendum on 25 May 2014, the day of the European elections. I think that this is a referendum that talks about the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and about archives for a single topic, a very important topic for our national needs, and it is necessary to have a special campaign and also a special vote on this issue. In today's debate, we have repeatedly referred to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, and some have not understood this very well. Article 32 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative speaks of two or more referendums being signed on the same day. This law does not say that a referendum and elections can be declared on the same day. I note that at today's meeting, colleagues who wanted to consider themselves candidates of today's subject matter do not in fact distinguish between the vote at the referendum and the election. If we were to separate these two concepts of political democracy, we would also, of course, know that the referendum and the vote in the referendum are regulated by the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and that the elections, in particular the elections in the National Assembly, are regulated by a special law on elections to the National Assembly. We have already let our citizens know, in essence, that this is an election of a different political process than that of a referendum vote. So I am in favour of separating these two processes, also because we need to talk about what connects us with Europe, not what separates us from Europe or closes our doors in Europe. When it comes to the availability of archive materials, we should also be aware that they must be accessible to all citizens, but especially qualified researchers. And not to researchers who use these archives or even abuse them for political accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Janez Fishich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. I would just like to say that in the Slovenian People's Party we support the amendment that the referendum is May 25th, but not May 4th, mainly because it would not result in an increase of 2.2 million costs. And those who support the 4 May referendum will cause these 2.2 million costs, not those that we support together with the European elections and the referendum. And please take note of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If he does not wish, then I am closing the debate on the sections of the decree and the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the third section. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u252	Your Honor! Today is the day when constitutionality is also decided in some way in this House. The urgency envisaged in the basic text of the decree, as proposed, and which we want to amend with our amendment, which we will of course vote for, is a real violation of human rights, a real violation of constitutional standards. Only two days to call for a referendum are actually too few. More importantly, this also affects when a referendum can be held. And if this is done as envisaged in the current text of the decree, this means that early voting in the referendum will fall into the middle of the holidays when people are not at home. That the day of the vote will fall on the last day of the holidays when people will return. And since there is no rational reason for this, it is an obvious obstacle to the right of people to vote in a referendum, which is a constitutional right. So if you do not support our amendment, you will knowingly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. More. That it is a matter of mockery from people proves that in the same month, just three weeks after that, we should return to the polls, the European elections. And all of them are legal and time-consuming conditions for this to be done at the same time. The constitutional principle is also economics and rationality, it is said that a solution is being sought to ensure that taxpayers' money is treated as reasonably as possible. This is a constitutional principle that follows from the very text of the Constitution and that we are obliged to respect in any decision we make. In this case, the basic text of your decision constitutes an obvious and direct violation of this principle, because the self-implementation you impose needlessly means additional funds, several million euros. With this poor Slovenia already in debt for about 20 billion euros, just in the last few weeks for about 5 billion euros, you want to throw a few more million out the window needlessly. This is a direct violation of the principle of constitutionality, the principles of economics, principles and values to act as a good master, while also making fun of people. People have to take their own time, and they have the expense of going to the polls, and because of the people themselves, such behavior is unacceptable. However, it is also constitutionally controversial and, as long as our amendments are not accepted, the Constitutional Court will certainly have its opinion. I only hope that the Constitutional Court will act as responsibly and decisively as it is in one case when it has given you a constitutional mistrust.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u253	Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? He does. I am opening the application for explanations of vote at the table of amendments to Section 3. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u254	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against this amendment to section 3, because I think it is possible to carry out by 4 May all the elections or tasks necessary to carry out the referendum in an appropriate manner. Early voting will be possible on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, when it is not a holiday day and only a vote can be held on Sunday, which is, of course, so prescribed by law. I object and do not want costs to be attributed here to those we will vote for on 4 May, because the costs for this referendum have been blamed by those who have proposed or who have opposed the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I see a desire to do so, so I am opening an application to explain my own name to the amendment tabled in Section 3. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. I will support our amendments, and I don't understand the transfer of the coalition, the opposite side, when it speaks of 2 million and something is nothing. When it is necessary to provide 2 million in the budget for an earthquake recovery in Susoča, which is taking long and long years, your minister will find no obedience or time, let alone money. In this case, we throw 2 million and a half money out the window. Whoever doesn't realize it, and each thing is judged only in its own image, is doing a very bad service to our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u257	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u258	One more time. The ones you're telling us that we're going to be blamed for the cost would not be the cost if it weren't for the first thing that caused it, which is the novelty of the law. I read to you earlier from the research mission that the archives in the Czech Republic and with us are the most open, so we estimate that they do not need to be opened because they are obviously among the most open in Europe, and that is what the government is trying to sell us a fairy tale that we do not believe. The whole thing started with a new law, if there was no novelty, there wouldn't be a reaction to that, so the referendum. That you're calculating and not calculating to me what you've been telling us all along and all day today, they're saying the words of the minister he said the last time on TV. Let me read them again. "If we went to the referendum only because, therefore, only for the referendum, of course, it would be less likely to come to this result, because it would be faster than the voter's response. Is it not your opinion that the referendum should be specifically linked to this?" And the minister said, "Maybe so." I suggest you, now that you have trouble finding [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u259	Explanation on its own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u260	I'll tell you. When you have trouble finding the missing money, it would be the simplest austerity measure that would not be unconstitutional to decide that the referendum is May 25th, just as I will vote and support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u262	Thank you very much. It is also a question of when will the referendum begin, so when will these referendums begin? I'll support the amendment. The reason, of course, is very simple and very clear and within my explanation. I'm telling you again. Can't ask for a referendum if there's no law. And if there was no law, there would be no referendum. I will support the amendment for the reason that the bill and the coalition are the ones that did this and not us. It is clear that without the law there would be no referendum and there would be no proposal for us. On the question of whether to initiate electoral rules now and whether to hold a referendum on 4 or 25 May, the matter is also quite clear. I will support our amendment, which puts it on May 25th, for a fundamental reason. We all know that the question of three days of leave, which will benefit the vast majority or many of our people, is that they will have nine days off and that means they will go on shorter or longer vacations to return to the referendum day, that is, 4 May, at night. That makes sense. That's what we all do. And because it is clear that the coalition wants to obstruct human will and nothing else by transferring to May 4th. And that's the problem, and that's why I'm going to support the transfer to May 25th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u263	Thank you very much. In his own name, he wants to explain his voice to the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. If I recall correctly, you put to the vote an amendment to section 3 of the decree, which speaks of when referendums begin to take place, on 3 April or 14 April. All that can be said about this amendment is that it does not go beyond what already exists in the proposed original date, 3 April. She's both in marriage. There's nothing wrong, there's no disrespect for the law or anything like anyone wanted to show. However, the fact is that we also have in the magnetogram an assurance from the Director of the Office of the National Election Commission, which ensured that the date of 3 April 2014 also allows all referendums to be carried out. So there is no need to change the date, of course, for those who are in favour of the 4 May referendum. And since I am in favour of this date, I will not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u266	I will support this amendment, in particular because of the request made by 46 000 716 citizens of this country. For all these people and all those who wish to decide on this issue, politics or the ruling coalition should allow for the widest possible participation in this referendum and refrain from all practices that may potentially constitute a restriction of this right. This is what the ruling coalition does by acting abnormally to prevent people from deciding on this issue in a normal manner within normal time limits. We've already had a referendum and an election. This was in 2007 when we elected the President of the State and we also had a referendum on the same day, which you launched at the time with regard to the share of the Insurance Company Triglav and with the promise you made then to the people that if the referendum succeeds, anyone who had an insurance policy will get a cca. 1,000 euros. To this day, of course, people have not received this money. We already have this practice, so to speak, that it is not possible to conduct elections and referendums on the same day, is the least of the balinian conduct, the unworthy person who once held a ministerial position. The coalition obviously has this money, 3 million and a half euros, because that's what this referendum will cost on 4 May, a change, because it owes us every hour for a million euros. So today, between 12 and 15 hours, you've already consumed this sum, and for you, it's a change. And for people, that's not change. You will take 8,000 750 monthly pensions with this unreasonable act. For this reason, it is necessary to adopt our amendment and to prevent harmful consequences and to enable people to decide in a normal manner, in accordance with constitutional provisions, on a very important issue which has been brought to bear by the government of Alenka Bratušek and not by the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u267	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, would you like to explain your voice? And also Mr. Lucky Meh. You have the floor, Mr. Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Madam President. By not supporting the amendment, the referendum rights will not be violated. People will be able to go to the referendum and prove what they want to prove. The Director of the National Election Commission said that they could do so without any difficulty and ensure that the referendum was as it should be. In 2008, you adopted and here in the National Assembly approved the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which made 800 million holes. Ask yourself what you've done. Most of you were here at the time. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Mr. Virant was then your minister in your government. In the government of Ivan Janez Janša. And you are. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u269	In your own name, Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u270	Look, today is April 1st, and you're acting first April. Some of your fellow Members have also proved this today. Therefore, citizens and citizens, do not take some discussions here today so seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u271	Mr. Happy Meh has the floor. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u272	I won't support the amendment. I think it is possible to have an extremely high-quality debate and animation of people on the 4 May referendum issue, without any interference and casting a shadow on this debate. It is also a legitimate right to adopt a law and it is a legitimate right to submit a referendum. By depositing and initiating the referendum, you have caused at least 1.3 million costs, which means how many pensions and how many scholarships? Without a referendum initiative and a referendum being carried out, this would not be a cost. But it's a legitimate right, I'm not challenging it. And I listened to you because sometimes you don't. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u273	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u274	In my own name because it seems important to me that this referendum is right on 4 May and because someone was talking about the referendum in 2007. At that time, the Council of State launched that referendum on their initiative. Of course there's no difference, but don't talk like that, if you do, it's your fault. Well, I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u275	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We vote on the proposed amendment of the SDS Group to the third section. We're starting the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Section 4. Before we go to the vote, let me say the following. As the amendment to Section 3 has not been adopted, the amendment to Section 4 proposes to set a voting day within a period of more than 45 days from the date of the call for a referendum. Therefore, pursuant to Article 33(1) of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the National Assembly will vote by a two-thirds majority of the Members present. If the amendment is adopted, the assembly will also vote with the same majority on the motion for a decree in its entirety. Before we go to the vote, does anyone want to explain their vote? On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u276	This vote only reflects what I have previously specifically warned in the debate. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative allows any day of voting to be signed at a referendum with a deadline of up to a year. This is said to be a year for the holding of the referendum itself. At this time, ladies and gentlemen, there are two elections in Slovenia. The first is the European Parliament elections and the second local elections this fall. This is said to all those who may have previously voted against the change of date and against our amendment and falsely calculated that with a possible constitutional judgment then you would get an excuse to delay voting day at a later date, this argument falls to you at this point. Because this argument is null and void because of the law that is now so long that it also allows longer hands. That is why all the arguments I have said before hold true in this vote. Keep this in mind that if you do not support our amendment, you will knowingly interfere with the previous vote and only vote in the referendum and will make it more difficult. This is clearly unacceptable and constitutionally controversial. In this case, the previous vote would fall between the holidays and the very day of the vote on the last day of the holiday on 1 May. Then people will probably be on leave, many of them will certainly be, some will just come back. Therefore, such conduct is unacceptable if there are other possible solutions. For other possible solutions, which apparently exist, there is another constitutional argument. The fact is that the money of taxpayers, even if you represent authority, is not given to you, but is entrusted to you in responsible management and you are obliged to treat it as a good master after stopping. In this case, the only rational and only consistent with the constitutional principle of economics and rationality is to hold elections and referendums at the same time, as this significantly reduces costs by several million euros. Any other vote once again constitutes a deliberate violation of constitutional principles. So it's constitutionally clearly controversial. If you have not understood the last lesson of the Constitutional Court, which has given you a constitutional non-disclosure, because the law to which the government has bound its confidant has fallen, then let me translate this into a simple language that is understandable to everyone. The Constitution also applies to you. The Constitution always applies and binds us all, at any time, even in this vote. We also have a responsibility to the people, so we will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? He does. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u278	Thank you very much again. Of course, this amendment must be supported, and I will support it myself. If Janša's government and Janša's coalition had acted as you did today in 2007, then the referendum proposed by State Councillor Zlatko Jenko, then a member of the Social Democrats, would not have been on the same day as the presidential elections. He wouldn't be here. We'd be with two, three weeks of delay, just like you're doing right now. However, the then government acted responsibly and was a referendum on the same day as the election of the President of the State. And you're acting irresponsiblely. For the first time, the irresponsible government, or, above all, the minister of culture, acted when he went to reform a law that was good. The Novela, which we now have on the table, was rejected at the 2011 referendum by 73% against. At that time, people made it very clear that they wanted to keep these archives open, and you come back with a similar subject. You are so pericardial that you want responsibility for the costs you will make alone with this May 4th party to be attributed to the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's extremely irresponsible. In addition, the ruling coalition – because you decide and have a majority – should do everything possible to enable as many people to participate in the referendum as possible. What you are doing is saying that you want the referendum and the European elections to be attended by as few people as possible. These decisions, which go in the direction of 4 May, say that you want to change the possibility of electoral participation in both the referendum and the referendum on 25 May with these two events. Not to mention, of course, economy, prudence, rationality. 3 million and a half euros of money isn't small, 8 thousand 750 monthly pensions is what you're going to pull out of the pockets of people who already have at least in this country. And for you, of course, this is a negligible amount, given that you owe us every hour a million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u279	Mrs Maša Kociper has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u280	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment. The fact is that the responsibility for the referendum will be borne by the one who proposes the referendum to the electorate, as well as the costs of carrying out this referendum. When I voted in favour of this constitutional amendment a while ago to return the referendum to the citizens and take it away from the politicians, I did not think that the first next referendum would be such that under it, Mrs Eva Irgle will be signed as the first signed, and that the Members of the Social Democratic Party will carry boxes of referendum signatures to Parliament. No harm, they have taken responsibility, and now they must show that they will bring to the voters as many voters as they need after the constitutional change to reject the law that was democratically adopted in the National Assembly. They have failed in the National Assembly with their initiatives, they may succeed in a referendum, but they are responsible for both the number of voters voting against this law and the costs. And when the date of the referendum is complete, it has nothing to do with constitutional matter, so that I can just smile at some.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u281	Thank you very much. You probably thought in the debate that the candidate was the Slovenian Democratic Party. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u282	Thank you very much. My forerunner has fully dedicated her performance to us, so I'm going to return it to her now. Because you have tolerated it, you will also tolerate me because I believe you are very democratic. Look, the situation is perfectly clear. Mrs Kociprova, Mr Meh, and I don't know who else talked about it. The amendment should be supported. Why should the amendment be supported? Simply because the referendum wouldn't be if there was no law. There is no way to send something to the referendum that does not exist and if there was no law, there would be no referendum, which means that responsibility is on the part of those who have adopted such a bad law. But it's worse. It is simply that 73% of voters in 2011 said that archives should be open and less than two years after that, less than two years after that, the archive coalition closed. Yeah, then who's the one who opens the ideological darkness? Who's the one responsible for the referendum? Who's the one responsible for spending the money? Just a coalition. At this point, we can only do what we do with this amendment, which, of course, I will support, which means we want to postpone the referendum to May 25th. You have had the opportunity to move it to local elections, there is no problem, no problem, but no, this is not a question, it is a question of how to prevent citizens from coming to the referendum as much as possible. That's the point. As I said before, at 3 days' leave, people will be home for 9 days and will not be at the referendum, but this is your goal, which will cost those few million, which formerly was expressed by counterpart Chernač in his pensions, but could also be in scholarships or I don't know what else. But that's the price the Slovenians will pay for your pomp and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u283	An explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr. Jože Tanko. I'm sorry, procedurally. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u284	Thank you very much for your statement, Madam President. Everybody. who participate in explanations of vote are not in an equal position. While our or my colleagues, who explain their voice, point out that they should explain their voice, you did not warn any of the other coalition groups of Members of Parliament about explanations of voices that were controversial and critical, and I don't know what else, just not explanations of voice. I suggest that those who are appointed to chair the meeting agree and measure all discussions, all replicas and all procedural proposals with the same vats. We have only one rule of procedure governing the rules of coalition and opposition for opposition and coalition members. It's all the same. And the chairman is not the one who will use the function of chairing the meeting to punish, warn, warn and interrupt opposition Members, to make worse debates, to make worse explanations and to make worse procedural proposals made by members of the coalition, to overlook the matter, or to supplement them in their performance that is not in line with it. And, Madam, let me also point out that the extremely high interest of the coalition in this item of the agenda also shows that the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the opposition quota has not been set at all for the holding of the meeting, as I see now. You were three. The meeting has been open since 10 a.m., which is said to be open at any time for 9 hours, and at that time the representative of the SDS Group, who is also Vice-President of the National Assembly, has not been appointed to chair the meeting. It is unacceptable to make such an arrangement between the beginning and the end. The whole script. Above all, Madam President, I propose that you learn how to conduct a meeting, what is a debate, what is a replica, what is a procedural proposal or what else. Because if you do not manage it, then you cannot judge the individual debates, procedural proposals and replicas of Members who want them properly and qualitatively. And with regard to the implementation of this part of the sitting, I find that you are completely biased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u285	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal, Mr. Jože Tanko. Perhaps you have not been able to hear when I also warned the coalition MP, Mr Kavticnik and Mr Meh, that I should explain my voice in my own name. In view of your long-standing experience in the National Assembly, I respect your thinking and try to take it properly into account when conducting the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dr. Jelusic would explain her voice in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u286	Thank you very much. I would like to say that I will vote against this amendment, which we are now talking about, because I think that people need to be able to define themselves as soon as possible with regard to the Law on Documentary and Archive Material Protection and Materials. I think that the time that was chosen is very appropriate on 4 May, even because before that, during the so-called May Day holidays, people will have time to think about and learn more about why they will go to the May 4th referendum. I say this because I find it very irresponsible of some in this National Assembly to have you, on behalf of a handful of people in our country, who can afford a nine-day holiday today in this situation, request a transfer of the referendum to May 25th. Most people will be free for nine days and will be at home. And whoever is at home also does their electoral duties and, above all, their rights at home. So I think the 4th of May is a well-chosen date. We will have time to prepare for it and we will be able to go to early elections in peace, as we have another job to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I am opening an application for reasons of vote in my own name to the amendment tabled in Section 4. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u288	If the constitution, regardless of the hard school you experienced in the Constitutional Court a few days ago, doesn't mean anything to you, then at least people should mean it to you. The May Day was always famous for having those who live modestly, returned to their parents in the countryside, and helped with their work, thus taking advantage of these holidays. And it's about you. And for those who visit relatives abroad or anywhere else. Madam, every citizen and every citizen has the right to such a country as to enable him to exercise his constitutional legal rights to the best of his ability. This is his indisputable constitutional right, which, under article 15 of the Constitution, is not allowed to restrict anything at all, and this is exactly what you are doing here, because you know well that when you put an early vote into the holidays, you will shorten it, at the same time prevent people from exercising their right, and only voting on the last day of the holiday is particularly controversial, in itself. And remember, according to your suggestions, people should go to the polls twice in just three weeks, in the same month. This is also a cost and effort for them. It takes time, and it is necessary to take the resources needed to make this trip, unless some take the car to the polling station ten miles or more. And that doesn't mean enough for you to act rationally and humanly, because taking care of people is obviously the last thing in your life.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u289	In his own name, he will explain the voice of Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u290	Of course I won't support the amendment. We adopt many laws and there are very few initiatives on referendums. But on May 4th, I think it's very appropriate because it's May 1st and May 1st. And since there was a very venerable holiday in that former system on May 1st, because it was a holiday of work, it seems to me that we will be able to tell people the most clearly about what was wrong in that system and what we are doing now in order to prevent what was so very wrong in that system from happening through this referendum. It seems to me that the 4th of May is a fantastic holiday, there will be a lot of time for it, at all the conventions we will be able to talk about it and actually better opportunities I do not actually see. And then straight to the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We decide on the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the fourth section. We're starting the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decree on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u292	I have a procedural proposal, ma'am. So that we don't miss it, before the explanations of vote begin, I'll pre-emptively tell you what I'm proposing. Given that no amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has been adopted, I suggest that you set a half-hour break before deciding on the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u293	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal, but we will do the explanations of vote first. Before the vote, of course, there will be a possibility of half an hour's rest for a decision before the vote itself. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? He does. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u294	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I now believe that, after six years of poor parliamentary work, you know me well enough to know that I practically never speak up on such topics. I have to say, I'm getting so nervous about these things that I can't tell you. Even this afternoon, I accompanied this debate in the office, and dozens of Members and Members talked about how much they respect the will of the voters who signed the request for this referendum. I must admit to you that I do not respect the will of 46 000 716 voters and voters, whom I claim to be manipulated for the political purposes of the Slovenian Democratic Party. At a time when the economic and social situation in the country should be very difficult for us all to bear in mind that we must deal with what leads this country forward, the questions that deeply divide this nation, which further deepen these divisions between us, and I would like to ask a rhetorical question. Are you really not touched by this fear, this abomination, this despair of citizens and citizens? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u295	In his own name, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u296	[[sign for the end of the debate]] who appreciate our work so low that they think it's both my responsibility and yours, that we don't poison this atmosphere with hatred even more? [[…]] Therefore, Madam Vice-President, I will vote against this referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u297	Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The 2011 referendum gave a clear signal to people, especially to politicians, that the archives are open, that they are transparent, and above all, that victims, criminals and officials of the former single-party regime should be equalised. Dear colleagues, in that archival material that remains, so in good 10%, we can see how the High Central Committees, together with members of the SDV, have influenced the judicial system, the prosecutors, the judges, how it affected the banking system, how it affected the media editors and so on. And if people want to know and suddenly get an answer, where the 5 billion from Slovenian banks have disappeared, why the media space is not balanced, why our judicial system is not working and why all these major systems and subsystems of the state are not working today, then they have to return to the DNA of this country. And this country's DNA is hidden in some of those 10% archives. That's what hurts you, and that's what makes you tease us and throw pollen. All of this will come to fruition. There's still a whole series of things coming up. Contact is coming with the archive from Belgrade. Everything that was destroyed will come back. And then the history of those who oppose and throw pollen will probably not be so democratic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there will be no more in this House. History will judge you. Believe me, what I'm telling you from this town today. The new law was made only because someone found that the archives were not completely destroyed and that there was a series of evidence of how the former totalitarian regime worked. That's the whole point of what we're talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? I guess not. In accordance with the proposal, I shall give 30 minutes' leave before the vote. We'll start the session at 8:03.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u300	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the government, Mr Minister, co-workers and co-workers! We continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Jože Tanko wishes to present the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u301	Thank you so much for saying that. In the parliamentary group, we analysed the situation that arose when this agenda item was considered. The fact is that in the very process of examining the decision on the invitation to referendum on the working body to manifest abuse, the Member who applied for the treatment of the point with the corresponding signatures and decrees in the main office was identified as not competent in the submission of the National Assembly and was thus deprived of the right to take part in the examination of the decision, since it was also first signed in this collection of signatures under the request to act as a candidate. On the other hand, in this process, all the things we have proposed regarding the date of the referendum, we propose a more rational form, a more rational term, namely that the referendum should be carried out on European elections or elections to the European Parliament, avoiding this dead work during the holidays when the campaign is limited, the possibility of presenting views and, of course, those citizens who will benefit from the holidays will be limited. Given that no proposal we have put forward has been accepted that, at any stage of our deliberations, it has not been our reason that even in this work you have also disputed the will of voters and voters who have gathered signatures to inform you that the parliamentary group will not take part in the vote on the referendum call decision. At the same time, I predict that, because of the reasons that are mainly related to the violation of the possibility of electorate and electorate in deciding on the referendum, in the event of the referendum delay, and of course because of the fact that the costs do not increase excessively and because in this case there are more than two million additional costs in the event of the referendum being postponed, we will also apply for a decision to be assessed in the Constitutional Court. Now we're predicting obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-01-SDZ6-Izredna-59.ana.u302	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a vote, i.e. to decide on the Proposal for a Decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 53 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 59th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Nicely greeted and good night.
