ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-15-SDZ6-Izredna-65.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 65th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Romana Tomc, Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Mr Ivan Simčič, Mr Samo Bevk, Mr Srečko Meh, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Franc Bogovic, Mr Janez Ribič, Mr Andrej Šircelj, Mrs Alenka Pavlic, Mr Branko Ficko, Mr Alozy Potočnik, Mr Jerko Čehovin, Mr Darko Jazbec, Mr Mitja Meršol, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mr Franz Pukšič and Mr Jakob Presečnik. I invited Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, and representatives of the Government who are engaged in ongoing business. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 65th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, on Thursday 15 May 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We are moving on to a decision and before we decide, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 65th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – Defence announcements by the President of the Republic of Slovenia that the national assembly will not be proposed by the candidate for the President of the Government. The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor wrote to me by letter of 14. 5. In accordance with Article 111(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 225(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Council of State shall not propose a candidate for the President of the Government and shall request that the State Assembly be informed at the meeting. And at this moment, I ask the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor to join us in the Chamber. The President of the Republic also expressed his wish to present his decision in accordance with Rule 224 of the Rules of Procedure at the meeting. I therefore give the floor to the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-15-SDZ6-Izredna-65.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, for the possibility that, as President of the Republic, on this occasion, when the Presidents of the Republic normally do not appear before the National Assembly in such procedural matters, I can appear before you and explain my decision. I would also like to say, and this is very sincere, as I can honestly say, please also accept that it is truly an honor for me to appear before the National Assembly. Please, Mr President, that the letter I handed you yesterday personally is taken as an integral part of my justification for the decision. Before the National Assembly, I would like to ask myself, you and the Slovenian public a few questions and answer them. The questions I had most of myself when I consulted with lawyers, when I consulted with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, when I consulted with the President of the National Assembly, with other distinguished experts, and last but not least, the question I asked them. First of all, I'd like to say why I decided, even though it wasn't a habit to ask your attention today. With you as President of the Republic, I am the one who imposes upon me the powers to propose to the President of the Government. I have this responsibility, and you as Members and Members or Members of the Group. Together, we must strive to overcome the void created by the government's resignation to the good of the country, citizens and citizens as soon as possible, either by appointing a new government or by early elections. Part of the procedure is behind us. I have consulted with you, and you all said that you do not have a proposal for a candidate for Prime Minister, that you do not think about creating a majority that could elect a candidate, and that you all want to check support among people as soon as possible. Now there's a next step ahead of you and us. Today, on the basis of your assessments and the assurances you have given me, I am informing you that I will not propose to the National Assembly a candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, and that the deadline I have considered to be a thought and an effort to reach him is short. Second question. In fact, what is the role of the President of the Republic after taking note of the end of the government's work. As soon as the President of the Republic has received a notification from the President of the National Assembly that the National Assembly, at its meeting, has taken note of the resignation of the President or the President of the Government, has begun discussions with the heads of the parliamentary groups. This is how Article 111 of the Constitution stipulates, the President of the Republic shall, at the latest, – I stress that within 30 days at the latest – inform this High House whether he is determined to propose a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government or not to propose and leave any further decision on this National Assembly. Not to forget later, all the leaders of the parliamentary groups that you were with me on Monday and Tuesday and we had very sincere, even unusually long and in-depth discussions, I would like to thank you for a thorough reflection on what is good for the country. I did not notice, I must say very frankly, and to the public at large, that anyone as a leader of the parliamentary group would try to formally or in private to convince me, as President of the Republic, of something that he did not publicly declare. The talks were open and I thank all the leaders of the Group. Today, the National Assembly is familiar with my decision at the meeting. Now the procedures come into your hands and I do not have jurisdiction nor do I wish to comment in any way on your possible decisions – these are your decisions, you are representatives of the people and you will decide in your conscience and in your best interests. Now, watch out! If the third round – this is the third round that sets 48 hours – is not successful after failing that deadline for 14 days, the President of the National Assembly shall inform the President of the Republic that the President of the Government has not been elected. The President of the Republic, i.e. me, I must disband the National Assembly and call for early elections, which may first be 40 days or no more than 2 months from the dissolution of Parliament. To this discretion, whether I have the right to be informed by the President of the National Assembly about the completion of the proceedings, and I will dismiss Parliament – I will still return because it is an integral part of some of the assumptions in the National Assembly and the public that are worth clearing up. Third time. Whether the President of the Republic is the only one to determine by his decisions the date of parliamentary discharge and the early elections, and whether the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is also sovereignly available. Above all, do we all have the free will, me and you, to determine when the most appropriate date for elections is due to this or that circumstance — no, not me and not you. I sensed in conversations that many people felt that way about this decision. Of course, we must not blame anyone for misinterpreting the complicated constitutional deadlines that we explain differently. But once again, together we, as President of the Republic and you as Members and Members, do not have the freedom to decide when the elections are. We need to stick to the constitutional deadlines, the law and the rules of procedure. The President of the Republic is therefore only one of the stakeholders. Within my 30-day deadline, I have – and this is the only discretion – the chance to shorten this 30-day deadline. I already said the rule says I have 30 days. This in itself means that I do not communicate to the National Assembly after 30 days, which could be explicitly written, but restricts the President of the Republic in an attempt to propose a mandate holder for more than 30 days, so that this right can then be obtained by the National Assembly, that there is no adequate search if the President of the Republic fails to obtain this in sincere efforts. But I told you what your views were. Of course, the other shareholder is you, who, in particular in citing meetings for briefings, proposing candidates for a mandate and deciding on a possible third round, can, of course, have a decisive impact on the shortening or extension of that procedure. Whatever you decide, you have the right to do so, which I must, once I am familiar with the new government or with the completion of the procedures, absolutely respect and take into account when deciding to dissolve Parliament. Fourth time. Whether the procedures we are implementing today for the search for a mandate holder are the same if the government resigns or if it has been voted out of confidence. The procedures in both cases are different. The deadline for a non-voted confidential person shall be shorter, the President of the Republic shall dissolve the National Assembly and shall call for early elections within 30 days. This is provided for in Article 117 of the Constitution. The current, longer deadlines for the call and early elections have determined how the government will fall, i.e. its resignation. I must also say here that we have consulted with the President of the Government that I mentioned to her that the circumstances of summer holidays are very ungrateful, which, of course, she also agreed on, I advised her to decide on her own conscience whether she could or could run the government in such circumstances if she extended her mandate, either for a short time or a longer time. I advised her that in case she made that decision, she would go and get her confidant. I did not have the right to tell the President of the Government, who is an autonomous state institute, that this is not about a vote on a confidential person just to shorten our hands, but I would like to go and get her to fall. I think it would be an abuse of the constitutional institute. The President felt that her conscience was imposing, her assessment of the circumstances, that she would simply give up, although we both immediately realized that this meant serious complications. Fifth. On what legal basis did I base my decision to shorten my deadline and have a discretionary right. Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides that the President of the Republic shall propose a candidate within 30 days. The maximum time limit is therefore set, otherwise the half-man of the National Assembly would not use the word at the latest, but it would say that there would be no doubt that the President of the Republic must seek to find a candidate for all 30 days or, in any event, after 30 days, notify the decision. And now probably for the National Assembly, the most important points of view related to my decision. With what conclusions I have taken after consultation with you, constitutional lawyers and others, do I justify the early conclusion that I do not propose a proposal for the Prime Minister of the Government? Next. First time. I didn't get a proposal for a candidate for Prime Minister. No member group has informed me that it has a desire to propose, but only to propose the name and surname of the candidate. Another time. I didn't get any hints that maybe later in the National Assembly, in my 30 days, a necessary majority would be formed for his election. Here I must say that a fellow Member of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia suggested that I should personally consider the possibility of the Government of National Unity. After our discussions with all the other leaders of the parliamentary groups, except for my colleague Tank, who was before him, I specifically spoke about this, that no one would say that I did not take full advantage of all the options. None of the parliamentary groups were in favour of this, and she felt that there were no feasible conditions for this. Neither in consultation nor otherwise, not only in consultation, I have not been given a name, nor the possibility of a proposal being made within this short period of time, which belongs to me. None of the shareholders, none of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, including others, including Members and Members – you know that I consulted with either of you if he wanted or turned to him for other reasons – and no one in my time told me to wait for my decision. This is important. Nobody. Because you might change your mind later. It is very important that the National Assembly, myself and the public are therefore aware that shortening the deadline is not such a problem because you now have the opportunity to propose a candidate for a mandate, so in these 30 days your right has not been consumed, so I have decided that, given that I have not personally assessed that it would be wise to propose a candidate, nor do I personally have one. That's what I have to say. If he will, and if he will form a government, I will respect that decision and cooperate with him in my best interests. But he doesn't have one himself. My decision to shorten the deadline is therefore justified and admissible. Reasoned because there is no proposal for a candidate for the Prime Minister and because, at the time that I am still available, it would not be possible to expect support for his chosen ones. However, it is permissible because Members and Members, i.e. you, still have the option to make a different decision in these procedures. I think that I owe you, honourable Members and Members, to the representatives of the people – regardless of my direct election from them – to explain the reasons and circumstances for which I have decided not to propose a candidate for a term of office. Two governments have been replaced since the last election to the National Assembly. Three attempts have been made to design it. The next attempt in one term would have been the fourth. Here we run into an interesting discussion that may develop because of other things about legality and legitimacy. If you vote on the new government, even if this third is in this mandate, there is no doubt that it is legal, that it has all the powers and that it must be respected. Will she be legitimate? It's a matter of free judgment. But she'll be legal, and she'll have all the powers. This is also a question concerning the call for elections during the summer months, whether they are legitimate or legal. Undoubtedly, they are legal unless otherwise decided by the Constitutional Court, because we have never before encountered the circumstances we are witnessing to them, there will be nothing wrong with the Constitutional Court, if it thinks that this is necessary, said and thus gave us all some practice to deal with in comparable periods. In addition, it should be noted that in these years, and in particular in recent years, the relationship between the parliamentary groups and their membership has changed substantially. I think that all these changes that we have witnessed make it difficult to form a government that would have strong support for decisions that await the government in the coming year and are not easy. We still have all the tasks we haven't done, and you, like me, are expected to make very high achievements. Citizens are more aware than ever of the need to reform health, economic recovery measures, to provide new jobs, to improve the functioning of important social sub-systems. All of this, in my view, can be done by a government which, in particular if the government is now in a year, very clear priorities in terms of time constraints and firm political support or the ability of a minority to achieve the majority of non-popular measures by excellent dialogue between all the parliamentary groups. I would like to explain why we did not have an election on June 22nd, as was said from one state summit. Following the resignation of the President of the Government, this date was mentioned and it seemed that if someone said that he was so high with such important duties in politics that it was almost fait accompli, in particular when he said that after all the tests, according to the date of withdrawal, this round of elections within constitutional and business deadlines would not be feasible, unless it was unacceptable that immediately and explicitly all Members and Members would cancel, in writing, this would not be credible, their constitutional possibility of proposing a candidate for a term of office. This means that it would not take 14 days or 48 years to mention these options. According to experts, and in my judgment as one of the interpreters of the Constitution, this is unacceptable and unacceptable. You have not only the right, but also the duty to consider as our representative body what is best for the country in the given circumstances, and to make a decision that you will also justify. Is my decision to shorten deadlines the reason that the elections will not be held in September, as has been reported from one of the other Slovenian political summits? And I have to say that we all have the right to say what we think. Everybody. But you did not hear me at that time, even though I am the one who will call at the end of the election that I have mentioned any date anywhere and at any time. Why? Because it cannot be foreseen in the light of the rights and duties of the shareholders in the proceedings. No one had to prejudge how I would act, and me and no one else could and should not guess how you would act. The problem faced by the state after the resignation of the Government is to take into account the constitutional, legal and business hands, the likely early elections – and I will now mention only a month, because we finally came to this with the leaders of the parliamentary groups – probably in July or August, if there were some extensions of procedures that are, of course, entirely legitimate, in the National Assembly and cannot be challenged, as I said before. If you ask me, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that, if these two choices are appropriate, July is more appropriate than August. The constitutional lawyers I had at the meeting were also, I think, a single not majority, uniform opinion that it is July, I think summer political time is ungrateful, both July and August are difficult to fit, but we do not have regular elections, we have extraordinary elections. So, in view of the government's resignation, we must find our best interests in the interests of the state and the citizens that we have a government as soon as possible – either by your appointment in this term or by the government that we will receive on the basis of the elections. Elections on September 7 – I say this not only because of you, I admit, also because of our public, I think it is appropriate that they understand our steps – it would only be possible to make this happen if – whenever, I have pointed to this – the longest possible deadlines are used in the proceedings. And that is perfectly legal and legitimate, and – this is the problem that I have and I do not accept as constitutionally permissible – if, after a notice from the National Assembly, you have not elected the President of the Government, I postpone this decision for at least four days to dismiss Parliament and call for early elections. Now I ask you to put yourself in my skin, in the skin of my institution, and ask yourself whether you — I have this answer, but I would like to consider it together — take responsibility for a decision that all constitutional lawyers have advised me to take, that if it were understandable reasons why the President of the Republic cannot sign the decree as soon as possible, let's say that I would not be abroad, but let's say that I would not, let's say, be sick, and I would assure you that, as Dr. Pirnat said, I would not have any other obligations, and I assure you that I will not have them, along with you and our people, I will follow very closely what is going on, then, let's say, as Dr. Pirnat said, for a day, I would withdraw the signature. No one would have objected to that. However, in order to knowingly extend the deadline in which I would not dissolve Parliament and justify it with the most, I will say, with sincere reasons, that I would do something that would make an unacceptable precedent for the conduct of the President of the Republic. You can imagine that in one other situation, another president would decide that when Parliament faces the fact that it has not elected the Prime Minister, the President will take time to reflect on how long he will take to dissolve Parliament and call for early elections. Such will is not permissible. I think that with regard to this discretionary right, if you could wait for the decision on parliamentary discharge and early elections, it has been made clear enough. If I were to believe that if I had obtained assurances, although the Constitution does not give rise to this, or the law and the rules of procedure, that I have some room of manoeuvre and it is legal and that no one else would have objected to it, of course I would have made sure that the elections were called in the middle or in the second half of September, if we did not get a candidate for a term of office now, let's say if I had assessed it better than July. But now I'm going to surprise you with an evaluation. My assessment is that the problem of participation is absolutely legitimate and controversial, that it is not good that July, when people are on vacation, but the postponement of elections at late September would lead to a new government there at some time before Christmas. Now imagine, the government stepped down in May. May, June, July, August, September, October, November – so much time without government, without powers, I don't think this is a good solution. Finally – I think that my time is running out, for my speech – I would like to say to you, honourable Members and Members, honourable Mr President, first of all, to remember later the words of gratitude for our cooperation, because perhaps there will be an opportunity, I say nothing, but, just in case, words of gratitude for your cooperation with me in last year's decisions regarding the election of key people to important functions in the country. Without your cooperation, without your understanding, well, even without my flexibility last year, I would not have chosen the seven most important functions that are important for the absence of institutional deficits in the country. Look, since there was no problem, no one reported it either. And those who report on this have every right to report or not, but we need to know that this has been a remarkable success, a remarkable success. You imagine we wouldn't have a governor or we wouldn't have a President of the Court of Auditors. Or that we don't have a guardian of human rights and so on. That would be a lot of trouble. We did it together. If I also make a proposal for an Commissioner or an Commissioner for Information at that time, I also kindly ask you to cooperate and to decide on the one who, in our joint consideration, has all the competence to do this important work. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have found that there are no good solutions in the present situation, they are only bad and worse. Given that it is not possible to say that there is an opportunity to form a government before the elections, if this were to be found, however, elections should be held as soon as possible. Let him say what I have already said to some of you in the talks, both at home and of course our interlocutors abroad ask mainly one question, not who will win the next election, but when the government will be. When will the government maintain this impression in order to preserve Slovenia, this reputation, if you want a country that has come through various governments in recent years and has begun to rehabilitate economic and social life. And look, I mentioned earlier that there could be, say, early elections, first, if there are no different decisions, say, in July, maybe even later. See, Slovenia does not have a Minister or Minister of Health if you include this time, 10 months. In any other situation in the government, this might not be such a problem, but at a time when I, as President of the Republic, said what you know for yourself, is that the health system is in a situation where it can be repetitive with the banking system, only that the banking system is about money, the health system is about the health of our people. On my question to Dr Fakin on one of the consultations, how much time, especially on fiscal terms, has Slovenian policy to deal with at least what is most necessary, things in the healthcare system, he said, until the next Christmas. It's a year and a half. To regulate the situation in the health system requires a government that has clear guidelines that have parliamentary support, including during the opposition and which is capable of social dialogue. Take, for example, this case as a reason why I have made my decision as President of the Republic. Dear Members and Members, Mr President! It has been a great privilege for me to talk to you, to explain my views, to thank you for our excellent cooperation, to recommend that we continue to do so if we work together. Finally, I think that we are not in easy situations, Slovenia is not at the most friendly time, but we have also had more difficult times and we have defeated them together. We're gonna make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-15-SDZ6-Izredna-65.ana.u3	I thank the President for the explanation given for his decision. In this regard, I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 112 and Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, notes that the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor has informed the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 111(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 225(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he will not propose a candidate for the President of the Government. The period referred to in Article 111, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in which candidates for the President of the Government may be proposed, shall begin on 16 May 2014 and shall expire on 29 May 2014. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 65th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your cooperation.
