ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Janja Navast, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mrs Mateja Pučnik, Mrs Alenka Bikar, mag. Stanko Stepišnik, Mr Dragan Bosić – is here, then Mr Franz Bogovic, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Zvonko Černač, Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Andrej Cuz, Mr Richard Braniselj and Mr Brane Golubovic. These meetings today cannot be attended; I welcome everyone else. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on the supplementation of a criminal code. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you very much. To begin with, the penal code does not change in principle too often, even in Slovenia we had great opposition to adopting a new criminal code in 2008. Most, both justice and many others, were against it at the time, but this code was adopted and is working today. What is before us today is the third amendment to the Penal Code. We propose simply that the 95th article be amended, which speaks of the fact that the crime of murder is not obsolete. It's about supplementing the Penal Code in that part that talks about the statute of limitations on the crime of murder. According to our proposal, if this is confirmed today and will continue the journey in the National Assembly, the crime of murder will not wear off, but it will somehow wear off with the death of the one who caused the murder. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not agree here, it surprises me quite a bit. But I am positively surprised by the views of the Council of Justice. The Council of Justice, which is usually quite orthodoxen or how to use the right term — which is usually in some firm positions that legislation does not change, agrees this time. But the Justice Department doesn't agree. I would not want us to witness in this debate today in the National Assembly any populism, if we had suggested this because of the current events surrounding the murders of the former State Security Service, otherwise referred to as the Udba. Because I've heard that a lot. I will remind you that it was 17 years ago yesterday since the largest or one of the biggest murders in the Republic of Slovenia, that is in Tekačev. After 17 years, criminals are still working, prosecutors are still working, and who says they'll never get to the point? They may reach the goal, but it may happen to us that one day we will say: Yes, we have the perpetrator of this crime of murder, four people were dead at the time, but we no longer have a basis for prosecution because the crime is obsolete. That would probably be the worst possible option. Let me remind you that after 2008, the Penal Code has already experienced 2 amendments. The first change was that remarkable amendment by Minister Zalar, where he simply made an extremely political mistake, according to my opinion, when he spoke in the media about the fact that the Penal Code of KZ-1 does not apply to minors. Then we changed this penal code to the nose and changed it, as it was unnecessary, because the Constitutional Court made it clear that the 2008 version of the Penal Code also applied to minors and there was no need for amendments. A few days later, a year later, we also changed this penal code, according to ours and my estimate in the wrong direction. We have removed the offence of bankruptcy by mismanagement and committed the crime of false bankruptcy with the aim of harming, where slander is necessary. Of course, such crimes are no longer recorded by our statistics, despite the fact that we have as many bankruptcys as you want. Sorry, I'll say. So this time we suggest that the crime of murder never expire, never. In some ways, it would only wear off with the death of the perpetrator. This also follows the constitutional principle, when we talk about constitutional principles in relation to the law on the inviolability of human life, also follows the principle of the right to personal dignity and security if you want. Therefore, once again, I do not want and will react very strongly as a proposaler if we are to be criticized for proposing this because of these days or in the past weeks, months of the uncovered murders of the former State Security Service. Once again, I am reminding you of such cases as the case of Running Man, who will be obsolete in due course in a very short time. This would not be good, nor from the point of view of international comparisons, where we see that these crimes are not obsolete in many countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, will give the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With the proposed amendment to the Penal Code, the proposed group wishes to supplement article 95 so that the prosecution and execution of the sentence would not be obsolete even if the offence of murder was committed under article 116 of the Penal Code, which is a qualified form of crime of murder under article 115 of the same law. The proposal is based, inter alia, on the fact that it is a matter of value breaking with the former non-democratic and totalitarian regime and that the addition of the Penal Code should allow for the punishment of the perpetrators of crimes of murder to be ordered or carried out by the former secret political police. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support this short novel. However, I would like to say that, from a substantive point of view, the Government considers that the proposal follows a legitimate objective in terms of fundamental human rights, in particular in terms of the inviolability of human life, this principle is also enshrined in Article 17 of the Constitution of our country. The offence of murder is even more repudiated because of the criminal amount than the crime of murder and it is such an unacceptable act that the negligence of prosecution and the execution of punishment is not necessarily a disproportionate consequence. However, with regard to the explanation of the proposed amendment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia points out that the principle of legality laid down in Article 28 of the Constitution must also be respected in criminal proceedings, and Article 2 and Article 7 of the Penal Code must also be summarised. In accordance with the principle of legality, no one shall be punished for a crime which has not been defined as a criminal offence at the time of his service and must also be prescribed at the time of the service of the offence. Acts which are criminal shall be identified and punished under the law applicable at the time of the service of the offence, except where the new law for the offender is milder. This means that even in the event that the novel is in force today, a new regime of non-derogable prosecution and criminal sanctions will not be applicable to the killings committed prior to the entry into force of this novel. Otherwise, it would be the retroactive application of the Penal Code, which is prohibited by Article 155 of the Constitution. At the same time, as has already been said, this would directly violate the principle of legality in criminal law, as a law that would have worse consequences for the perpetrator would be applied. In the case of criminal laws, it is particularly necessary to carefully assess whether a derogation from the prohibition of the retroactive application of laws may be applied in the second paragraph of Article 155 of the Constitution. The law may exceptionally stipulate that individual provisions of the Act have a retroactive effect, provided that this requires public benefit and does not prejudice the rights acquired. With regard to the provisions of criminal laws, the issue of the exceptional retroactive effect could be raised in the context of the provisions on conditions for prosecution. In this regard, the Criminal Code already provides that specific provisions may be adopted to the benefit of the perpetrator in return; for example, the abolition adopted by the Amnesty Act. The government supports the objective pursued by the amendment, but considers that the proposed regime for intervention in such an important institution of the general part of the Penal Code and the system law is urgently needed for a more detailed examination and, as is the case with all major changes, for the opinion of the professional public. Today's proposal will be examined by the Government when it changes the penal code already this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! In its explanation of the proposal, the proposer clearly defined an objective which could be fully legitimate. However, such a defined objective of the novel confirms that it is a non-systemic approach to the amendment of the Code and, in particular, to the Institute of Obsolescence, which is the basis of the rule of law, and was introduced into the European legal system by the Austrian penal code of 1803. There's probably one in the worst of crimes that could be due to negligence. Crimes are also acts of terrorism and a whole series of killings and causing death, with the same result as murder. Therefore, such an important provision as the Criminal Code should only be supplemented and amended by the competent ministry or the Government, which should take particular account, comprehensively, systematically and involve the widest professional public in the preparation of the novel. Last but not least, the adoption of the novel cannot achieve the above-mentioned objective. In criminal law, retroactivity is particularly limited. The only permissible retroactivity can be found in Article 7 of the Penal Code, which states: The perpetrator of a crime is subject to the law applicable to the commission of a criminal offence. If the law changes after the commission of the offence, the law shall apply which is milder to the offender. Through the prism of this only permissive retroactivity in criminal law, it is also necessary to assess the aging of criminal offences. A criminal offence which, under the applicable law, has lapsed, for example. As early as 1995, there is no way that today's amendment of the law will make it obsolete. Another explanation is the grave ignorance of the fundamental principles of criminal or penal law, and it means dangerous playing with the legal field, which is the most profound and powerful interference in personal human rights, including the right to life. Indemnity of criminal offences in accordance with the provisions of bond law also results in non-demnity of liability. Where the damage was caused by a criminal offence, the limitation of the compensation claim against the responsible person shall, when the time set for the limitation of the prosecution has elapsed. Theoretically, according to the proposal of the proposer, it may be possible to draw concrete criminal and compensation liability even from the period of Turkish incursions. But we can go even further and declare all crimes unconstitutional. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that the law before us is not an example for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the Penal Code propose that the prosecution and execution of the penalty for the crime of murder should not be extended. Certainly, we all agree that human life is untouchable, one of the highest values and that the perpetrator of the crime with which he reaches into human life must be punished. In this place, I do not go into the professional justification of the Institute of Procrastination, but from the point of view of a simple citizen, I think that everyone would first think that the perpetrator is responsible for the murder committed for the rest of his life. It's not like that. It only answers to God and to itself if the legal system or the justice of a country is unable to find such an offender, to sentence him or her, and to bring him or her to a detention facility. Therefore, obsolescence is, in some way, intended for the law enforcement authorities and the whole judiciary, to do their job well and that it does not result in someone being expelled from their sentence. In Slovenia, we have quite a few problems and some convicted people are supposed to be walking around neighbouring countries waiting for the execution of sentences in Slovenia to wear off. The aim of the bill is also to cover crimes, crimes or individual criminals that have operated within the framework of the State Security Service at the time of the former common country. For these, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already stated that it was a serious violation of human rights when domestic and foreign citizens were killed for political ideological purposes. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have said several times that in this regard Slovenian investigators, as well as the State Prosecutor's Office, are to initiate investigations, examine evidence and archival documentation to call to account and publish their names, whether they are still among us or are already deceased, or whether they live in Slovenia or abroad. If we do not do this as a country on our own territory, we will undoubtedly be forced to do so by the neighbouring countries in whose territory such crimes have taken place. This is not the water on the mill legal state which Slovenia is supposed to be. It is time for us to face the dark patches of our past history and to mark the crimes of the day as crimes. This should be done by the institutions of the rule of law, investigative and judicial bodies. However, politics should not hinder them and start dealing with the present and the future. In the spirit of these thoughts, as well as in the broader view of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we assess the proposed law as suitable for further consideration, in which we will also obtain several expert opinions and be more easily defined until the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, distinguished President.Dear and respected – all present! The SDS Group has tabled a proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code, the content of which relates to the determination of the non-derogation of a crime of murder, both in terms of prosecution and in terms of the enforcement of the penalty. Proposalers estimate that such a solution requires the constitutional principle of the inviolability of human life and the protection of human personality and dignity, as the right to life is inseparable and as such the highest value protected by both the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. That's right. The right to life is the highest value and, as such, is inseparable. Here we fully agree with the proposer and whoever reaches this value must be punished. There is no doubt about that, but the solution proposed is that prosecution and execution of the crime of murder should not be obsolete. According to the applicant, such a solution would constitute a real value break with the former regime, allowing for the punishment of members of the former State Security Service, for whom it was intended to be disclosed in the last period, in order to order or execute several cases of murder. At the moment and for these reasons, we cannot support such a solution in the DeSUS Group. First of all, with the possible adoption of such a solution, they would intervene in fundamental criminal and legal principles, which must by no means be subject to rapid change, even for reasons of political accounting. The retroactive interference permitted by the Constitution would also be a truly exceptional principle here. One of the basic principles of criminal law is also the prohibition of imposing more severe penalties than could be imposed at the time the offence was committed. But you can use a later, more lenient sentence. This principle must be without prejudice to the protection of human rights and freedoms. However, the possible determination of non-degreasing would mean the destruction of the legal regime of the area, which must be as stable as possible. A completely different situation would have been if the crime of murder had now been defined as carefree, but we would have discussed the minor qualifications of this crime. In this case, retroactivity could not be discussed, as a more lenient law could be applied. It's the other way around. With regard to this proposal, we point out that, with the possible adoption of the proposed solution, our country would be an exception rather than a rule. Specifically, comparatively and legally, although the proponent claims otherwise in explanation, such an arrangement as we have now does not deviate from the regime in other European countries. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, and we will vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u12	Dear President, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members! Human rights are by definition those rights that are born of our nature and without which we cannot live as human beings. Fundamental human rights clearly include the right to life and the right to protection of human physical and mental integrity. As stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, every right to life begins with the moment of natural death. The right to life from the beginning to the natural death of the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, we always speak out loud in our programme and in our positions. The denial of this basis of human rights is not only an individual and a personal tragedy, but a tragedy in a social sense, as it creates conditions for social and political unrest, sowing seeds of violence and conflict in and between social groups and nations. The inviolability of human life is also the highest protected value in our constitutional system, and any intervention in this most fundamental human right must be consistently penalised, since we can effectively protect this highest value. Our criminal justice system distinguishes between murder and murder. Murder is a man's premeditated murder, and murder is inconceivable to taking a man's life. The murder is defined in our Penal Code in Article 116, which stipulates that anyone who takes a life is punished by imprisonment for at least five years. Another time. The perpetrator of the act referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be punished by imprisonment for at least 10 years or imprisonment for 30 years if he commits an act in a horrendous or insolvent way, if he commits an act out of favour; if he commits or conceals another offence; if he commits an act against an official or military person in performing public or state security tasks, protects the public order, pursues the perpetrator of the offence or looks after anyone who is deprived of his liberty; or if he commits an offence against an investigative or judicial judge, a public prosecutor or his representative who is involved in an offence against a criminal association; if he commits two or more persons who have merged to commit a murder. Thirdly, if the act referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article has been committed under specific mitigating circumstances, the perpetrator shall be punished with imprisonment from six months to five years. Thus, murder is legally defined as a crime committed by a person over another person and caused by his death without a legal excuse and with the aim of killing him or causing him serious bodily harm, the intended result of which is the death of the victim. In most countries, murder is defined as the worst crime punishable by the highest penalty provided for by law and as such is not subject to an expiry date. In our current criminal justice system, there are already unscrupulous crimes. These are crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crime and the crime of terrorism. The murder is now legally defined as a crime committed against another person and caused by his death, without a legal excuse, and with the aim of killing him or causing him serious bodily harm, the result of which is the death of the victim. In most countries, murder is defined as the worst crime and is punishable by the highest penalty provided for by law. Murder is not one of those crimes that don't get old. According to the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, it is also necessary and necessary to put an end to this crime, which is one of the worst crimes of all, to delay both the prosecution and the execution of the sentence. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be supported by the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u14	Dear Members, Members, the rest of you are present, Madam Secretary of State! The SDS Group has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code. However, the reason for the change would be the functioning of the former State Security Service. According to the applicant, this is the case in the explanatory memorandum for the above-mentioned addition to the issue of a value break with the former non-democratic and totalitarian regime, as several cases of homicides have been revealed in the recent period by the former secret political police, i.e. the State Security Service, have been identified. Let me immediately say again and again, in Positive Slovenia, that we strongly condemn any illegal conduct, even when it comes to fundamental human rights violations, including the inviolability of human life; let this be the case for acts committed by former members of the State Security Service or any other perpetrators. On the other hand, as has been said many times before, in Positive Slovenia, we oppose ad hoc and thoughtless and non-systemic changes in legislation that have already proved to be flawed and have even more bad than good effects. In particular, it is necessary to be careful to amend the most important system laws, which must include the criminal code as a fundamental system law in the field of criminal substantive law. Moreover, the amendment, as proposed, does not solve the problem identified by the applicant as a fundamental intention of the law. I am sure that the applicants know and have been told several times in this National Assembly, and several times today that the Slovenian Constitution provides for an explicit prohibition of retroactivity in Article 155 – that is, the prohibition of the retroactive application of legal acts. In addition, criminal law clearly provides that the perpetrator of a criminal offence is subject to the law that was applicable when the offence was committed and that the law is later amended to apply a law that is nicer to the offender. Since I am sure that the applicants know this well, and since this proposal cannot achieve its purpose, in Positive Slovenia we are concerned that there is another attempt to divide citizens on the basis of an extensive debate on the half-life of history, which will ultimately have no concrete results. What a concrete proposal could do is to put an end to the crime of murder forward – that is, following the implementation of the amended law. In our view, too, such a change cannot be supported for a number of reasons. Firstly, in the light of the Special General Prevention, it is crucial that criminal proceedings, sentences and executions be carried out as soon as possible after the offence has been committed. This is not to be overlooked by the fact that after a long period of time such acts are difficult or even impossible to prove. Secondly, because we are very comparable to other European countries in Slovenia, as far as regulation is concerned, or even stricter. For example, we have a certain higher limit than France, Germany, Italy, Finland and so on. In addition, our criminal code, as has already been said, also lays down exceptions, i.e. criminal offences against which prosecution is not obsolete and even the execution of a sentence is not. In addition to genocide, crimes against humanity, war crime, aggression, etc., these crimes also include the commission of two or more crimes of murder. This possibility therefore exists and there is also the possibility of the end of criminal offences. Nor do criminal offences for which a life sentence is imposed expire after the current regime. Furthermore, the annual police reports show that we have no problems with unexplored murders in our country, and that killings have been properly investigated in all years. And for the fourth time, as I have already said at the outset, such an intervention in such an important institution must be considered, included in the system law, in the opinion and cooperation of the professional public and in the pursuit of clear objectives. Since the representative of the Government has said that the proposed solution will be examined when the penal code changes in the near future and when the professional public expresses its opinion on this, we will not support this proposal in Positive Slovenia. We will support the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u16	Honourable President, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens and citizens! We have before us an amendment to the Penal Code, which was published on 4 June 2008 and which entered into force on 1 November 2008. A new criminal code, adopted in 2008, introduces a new concept of criminal law, which focuses on the European environment and breaks with the past. The reform of the criminal law of the Republic of Slovenia as a member of the European Union must continue. What he did with the criminal code to combine the former Federal Republic Act with some urgent changes and additions was barely a preparation for the reform of criminal law. Only with the new penal code has the reform moved forward to such a decisive stage that the application of criminal law will no longer depend on how much someone knows the specificities of previous law. This can only be achieved through the issuance of a new law. The new criminal code also means harmonising the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia within the European Union and the international community. In a new and accurate manner, all the obligations of countries in the uniform regulation of criminal law have been reviewed within the framework of the European Union and international law, and then the basic analyses carried out are also introduced into domestic law and form a coherent whole. International and European law only knows a number of individual, mostly imperfect, legal rules in the criminal field. A partial exception to this is only the so-called Rome Statute, which, for the most part, remains separately weightless after the content, harmonisation and respect of the normative hierarchy. The harmonisation of these tasks is therefore considered to be their takeover into national law, which means that European criminal law is represented through national criminal law of all European countries – including Slovenia. So far, the penal code has been revised twice. In the first novel it was updated in a work that regulated the application of the previous Code for Juveniles. In doing so, it is worth recalling that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, following the adoption of a new decision and a broader novelty adopted in 2012, which, among other things, deleted the offence of causing bankruptcy by mismanagement, is in line with the new offence — a false bankruptcy with the aim of damaging creditors — therefore, there is a need for slander and no longer negligence as was the case with the previous offence. The new penal code has also brought new innovations in the area of the Institute of Obsolescence in the general field of work. It has maintained the division of excessive prosecution and, in particular, the limitation of the enforcement of criminal sanctions; it has left the distinction between relative and absolute obsolescence, which in practice caused confusion and difficulties in certain cases. The criminal code in the area of crimes against humanity prescribs three distinct crimes against humanity: genocide, crime against humanity and war crime. The offences are established in accordance with the ratified Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which defines in Articles 6, 7 and 8 the signs of these offences. Although this ratified and published international treaty applies directly under Article 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it was necessary that this part, namely individual offences, be included in our new criminal code. It is undeniable that these crimes are also consistent with the Convention on the Prevention of the Crime of Genocide, which was signed on 9 September 1948 to New York and is applicable on the basis of acts of succession notification. We also point out that 4 Geneva Humanitarian Conventions of 1949 and 2 Additional Protocols to these Conventions are also in force with the Act of Notification of Succession in the Republic of Slovenia. The Rome Statute also defines the crime of aggression, which has been included in the Penal Code in accordance with the relevant provisions of the United Nations Constitutional Charter. The crime of terrorism is also based on European Union law and international acts. The Penal Code establishes the crime of terrorism on the basis of a Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union on the fight against terrorism. I turn to the question of the depreciability or negligence of the criminal offence of murder, the qualified or more serious form of crime of murder, the murder, and in particular those intentions resulting from the operation of the former State Security Service. We were aware of the principles of international criminal law and, above all, the principles of classical criminal law of all civilized nations. The concept of material international criminal law – material legal provisions are the identification mark of international criminal law. The substantive provisions of international criminal law relate to individual international offences, legality, the general concept of international crime, the rules on individual criminal liability in the form of guilt and criminal sanctions. In particular, we were aware, in accordance with the material provisions of the Rome Statute, which was adopted at diplomacy, namely at the diplomatic conference in Rome on 17 July 1998, it entered into force on July 2002. It is currently held by 114 States Parties. It is important to be aware that we are focusing on parts 2, 3 and 7 of the Rome Statute. Today, the proponents of some parties spoke of the principle of legality, i.e. nullum crimen, zero points of blue praevia lege, have been cited — paragraphs 22, 23 and 24 of the Rome Statute. The signs of a criminal offence must be clear, narrow interpretation and prohibition of their dissemination by analogy, the application of the principle and the depth of the reo, i.e. doubts in favour of the accused, the prohibition of retroactivity and the application of the minor legal provision in the event of a change in the law before the jurisdiction of the judgment. In this part too, we agree, so we do not have a problem with this law, which we are amending today – in particular, a novelty on the aberration of the crime of murder – to be applied retroactively. We're aware of that, too. We are primarily talking about symbolic action here in the National Assembly. That was what we suggested. It is important that the 2008 penal code adopted by the then-Janša government was entirely new, I could say, with perfect, with everything contained in the Rome Statute. In this case, there is something else I must say about crimes that do not become obsolete under international criminal law. Some of you have already talked about this today, and I'll say it again. Article 5 of the Rome Statute speaks of the most serious international crimes affecting the international community as a whole. We're talking about crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, aggression. Of course, Roman status does not lay down any formal hierarchy between the four categories of international crime. Thus, all four international crimes are at some level and are not treated individually. I say this within the meaning of Article 7 of the Devilhood against humanity. It is important to emphasise the current situation that we have discussed with the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and equal opportunities regarding the functioning of the former State Security Service. The law enforcement authorities can continue to prosecute the crime against all the legislators and also the perpetrators of these crimes, which we talked about in particular at the end of the 1960s, the beginning of the 1970s, the 1970s and the whole 1980s, I can say almost until this country's independence. So these people have started and also the course of persecution of these criminals is in the direction of crime against humanity. [[…]] What did the Roman Statute say in this regard? The concept was created in the context of the Martens Clause, which is already found in the preamble to the so-called II. The Hague Conventions, in the laws of the ordinary war on land of 1899, stipulating that in cases not governed by an international treaty and by law, the population and soldiers shall be protected in accordance with the principles of international law resulting from customs applicable among civilized nations and the law of humanity and the requirements of public conscience. Dearly beloved, today you have also started to talk about the history of criminal law in this territory, not in this country, you spoke about the Austrian penal code of 1803 – I can reach out 60 years ago – about the very important first criminal code in this direction, of 1747, during the reforms of Mary Teresa. Why is it important? It is important because there was a principle in this room that torture could not reach recognition in the case of those suspected of having committed a crime. I'm talking about 1747. I am talking about history, the history of criminal law, the former Habsburg monarchy, then the Austro-Hungarian State, the first Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and then we can talk about history or the work of criminal law or the very theory of criminal law after the 1945 revolution and until 1990, in the context of democratic change. Why am I saying this today? We speak through the prism of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. We are talking about respect for those principles that, following the break of one of the three totalitarian regimes, after the break of Nazism, have been brought down in the Nuremberg processes. The foundation of the Nuremberg processes was one of the clauses that the Rome Statute is still talking about — the law of civilized nations, the law that is not the law. A right so unfair that it wasn't right. Despite the fact that a number of people in the Nuremberg Hall called for these laws to be legal and adopted. They were adopted in the parliamentary body of the then Nazi Germany. But there was a shift in understanding mainly criminal law, there was a shift in international humanitarian law, when most of the major legal experts agreed that this law was so inhuman that it was not right. As a result, they concluded 12 trials that lasted from 1945 to 1949, known as the Nürnber trials, either in the court itself or in the city where the so-called very unfair Nürnber laws were also created, in which they persecuted all those who did not agree with the Nazi state, the Nazi regime. Not just persecuting the Jews, persecuting everyone else. This is also true in the case of the other two totalitarians who did not experience a judicial epilogue, i.e. Fascism, which did not experience a judicial epilogue, kind of failed in 1943, lasted from 1922, 21 years. We are talking about communism, socialism, or communism of all kinds, all the events that have happened to us and that have been with their collapse — that is, third totalitarianism as such has lost war. That's what you need to know, too, those who talk about it today. It has to be said that all the communist systems lost in the Cold War, they collapsed in the Cold War. And to that end, it must also be understood that some types of Nuremberg have not experienced communist systems. They did not experience any judicial epilogue in totalitarian systems, which brought the most victims, the most injustices and which lasted the longest, respected colleagues and colleagues, this system lasted as long as possible. The system lasted for at least 45 years in Slovenia alone. At least 45 years. And we've never had a court epilogue. After the democratic processes, we have found more than 620 postwar graves, so far somehow found. We have recently found in the archives a whole series of crimes against humanity, crimes against other thinkers, crimes that were in contravention of the standards of civilized nations, respected colleagues and colleagues. And that's what we're talking about today. We're not talking about whether or not we're going to be a novelty in the statute of limitation of a criminal offence, i.e. the penalty of murder, or whether we're going to be able to go back to the murder of an individual. These perpetrators today can prosecute a crime against a humanity that has not aged. I think that some of the procedures in the Republic of Slovenia are also against these perpetrators. Today I am talking about a symbolic interruption, I am talking about whether this has taught us something, whether we have identified ourselves as untouchable human life, and that this is truly untouchable in Slovenian society itself, and that we condemn any violent crime in the direction of murder. That's what we're talking about today. I am aware of and do not need the teaching and principles of the criminal code or international criminal law, because I know it and we know it as well as the proponents. We are talking about concepts, actions, and whether we have learned anything from these acts from the past. Another issue that is important for all communist systems is also the system of the so-called former emergency network that exists. With us we can talk about the udbomaf networks that exist in the country, respected colleagues and colleagues. Someone who had absolute power for 45 years who could make decisions between life and death has a network and operates in it. And they have problems because of that, mostly in post-communist or post-socialist countries. There's a problem here, too. The problem is that, through the prism of today's times, this society, which has been somehow misled, has literally indoctrinated a whole range of Slovenian people through the process of culture through the process of education, through the process of four or even five monopolies. That's why people are today, we can say, in one sense indoctrinated and at least one part of people doesn't know what's right and what's wrong. What must be judged and what not to be judged. I speak through the prism of the rights of some civilized nations. We have serious problems. We have serious problems that people are relatively insensitive to such things. And see, Article 17 of the Constitution speaks of the inviolability of human life, also says that there is no death penalty in Slovenia. Today, we have a position across this network of people who have been judged, we have judges or prosecutors who have also been sentenced to death. We have a whole range of people in the media who were part of the former system, we have a whole range of people who worked in the police force, we have a whole range of people from the secret police, who are now also at the top of politics. I think there is no secret that there are also five fellow Members of the State Security Service. You need to know, the State Security Service was just one last phase of all this. She went through the KNOJ, went through the OZNO, went through the Udba, divided into Udba and KOS, and eventually landed at the State Security Service. And it's unacceptable. See, in politics, for example, the former Republic of Germany, we know the case of Willy Brandt's resignation. Willy Brandt resigned as a fairly successful president because he found a former active member of the State Security Service of the former East Germany in his office. And that's why he had to step down. We have people who are insensitive to this. With us, people are insensitive that such a policy can also control through the National Assembly of Security and Intelligence the current democratic regime. We have never talked about this before in this National Assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues. What is important, including criminal law or international criminal law through the prism of human dignity, through the prism of inalienable human rights, are the key issues that have taken place at the founding assembly of the United Nations and the adoption of new constitutions, which included a catalogue of the first and second generations of fundamental rights. The United Nations Constitutional Charter, the 1948 General Declaration on Human Rights and the new Constitution of France, Italy, Germany, India also speak through the prism of human rights. The Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court in large judicatures, not only those mentioned, said that human rights and fundamental freedoms were severely violated in the previous system. In this context, criminal law has also persecuted people in the direction of verbal delinquency, which is unacceptable for today's situation, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have a whole series of top-notch lawyers of the older type who have been trained in such a system, who have promoted it, who have been theorists of this criminal law or substantive criminal law and also of procedural criminal law. So total disrespect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. And these people today, as part of the professional public, will once again talk about whether it is acceptable for the crime of murder to be aged or not to be debated by the professional public. Isn't that the basis of a civil code? Isn't this some basic civil code that doesn't make murder obsolete? I believe that these discussions will be extremely interesting in the course of the adoption of this novel, including through the parliamentary process. As interesting as those on the Human Rights Commission when we agreed, we condemned murders. Finally, we did not confirm this through the vote. Part of the Members did not confirm that the functioning of the Constitution or the former State Security Service existed. Some Members have not confirmed that the perpetrators are found. Part of the MPs refused to confirm the act of exposing the perpetrators and also to reveal the bodies of the murdered people. Further, all those who have acted in this last case, when talking about former members of the State Security Service, must know that they also violated the criminal law of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We've never even talked about this before. The wedding was a secret organization. She had a special, specific writing system, where literal killings were imposed by the commanders and those executives. Perhaps this is why historians have failed to do so to this day because we need extraordinary specialized knowledge in this direction so that we can investigate it. We need a whole range of specialized skills to discover at all how to write, how to communicate, how to cooperate, how they cooperated and how they worked. Of course, it must be said that many, who were then also a member of the Communist Union, did not know about it. And in this we can also agree, and we cannot condemn anyone who was a member of the Communist Union. However, we can condemn the narrow part of the Central Committee, which was the commander, and we can condemn those who did so — that is, members of the former State Security Service in particular. And that's where we're talking. The amendment of the law itself, which we are talking about as proposing today, also speaks of the fact that the law, as such in general work, is not obsolete. As such, the proposal follows the constitutional principles I have mentioned today, i.e. the constitutional principle of the inviolability of human life and personal dignity and security. In the light of both principles, the proposal is that the crimes of murder are qualified or worse a crime of murder, justified and proportionate in terms of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. This is particularly important, therefore, in the light of the work of the former secret political police, the State Security Service, which, until the end of the 1980s, illegally and secretly kidnapped and murdered domestic and foreign citizens. This follows the content of the Constitution and the Resolution of the European Parliament on European consciousness and totalitarianism of 2 April 2009. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. I am confident that we will finally identify ourselves in the National Assembly on some fundamental civilisational standards. I believe that the article we are talking about today, which discusses the depreciability of the crime of murder, will be incorporated into the Slovenian Penal Code. I believe that this is the first step towards normalising this society. If the second step is to finally start investigating the serious crimes of people in the past, not on the basis of this code, changes to this code; but on the basis of the crime against humanity I have been talking about, which we now have a material basis, then I believe that this society will make possible progress in the coming years. However, if we do not identify ourselves exactly according to these basic civilisation standards, then – respected colleagues and colleagues – we will have years and years to rest for this society. We need to lay some foundations for sound thinking and also for a healthy conviction of all the crimes that have occurred in the past, and in particular we must condemn the people who have acted in favour of these crimes who have been active participants in these crimes. And, unfortunately, Slovenia, the country that stands on the bodies, on the extraordinary injustices of the past, where the former Communist Party, I can say, reborn a new Slovenian man, placed it in a new context. And as such, at least so far I don't see, nor here, in the National Assembly, that we have managed these first steps. And once again, as you know, the crime of murder, not in Austria, not in Germany, not out of date, and as such, they will be persecuted. And the people who did this will be persecuted by other countries. We know a European detention warrant and will be able to hand them over if crimes or investigations show this in foreign countries. I would remind you of what happened in Croatia, when President Josipovic also wanted to change even the constitution – and they changed it, they wrote in the constitution that the crime of murder was not obsolete. On the one hand, they wanted to intervene retroactively, but in doing so they wanted to make a bypass, they wanted to protect themselves that people who were also now operating in the Croatian secret services, who were even setting up governments and presidents not to turn themselves in to Germany. Unfortunately, they failed, Germany was threatened by a series of sanctions. And I, as a Member, as a citizen, as well as the proponents of the Slovenian Democratic Party, are aware of this and we are speaking with all seriousness. In the first phase, we change the penal code, so we amend, condemn the former totalitarian regime, in all its phases, not just postwar killings, in all its phases. We also call on the government because we are talking about the punishment that law enforcement authorities are currently working towards investigating crimes against humanity in the Republic of Slovenia, where they have a basis. I would like to symbolically break off the past so that we can decide whether we want a future together. If we do not do so, if we do not unify ourselves under all fundamental civilisation standards, then we seriously consider how to develop a quality economic system in the light of the future, how to maintain a quality social state – without this basis, there will be no progress. We all have to be aware of that. Because people who have experienced a variety of injustices will not cooperate. They won't even trust politicians who don't condemn these cases. That's what we're going to talk about today. And I hope that at least we have united ourselves in the direction that the proponents are aware of the principles of international criminal law and also criminal law in our country, including constitutional law in this regard. We are aware that retroactively this law will not go back to investigate just one murder of a representative; but we are aware of how to proceed. And how forward, it means exactly what they do in different countries around us, where a whole range of schools, a whole bunch of educational institutions drives young people in Dachau, into different camps, even into Stasi archives and show them: Look, be aware that once you may lead this country, you will never have to afford it again. That you'll never do anything so bad. That is what it is — the essence of the Penal Code is also its preventive function. And the preventive function of a serious democratic state and the Penal Code must also be that we, as a political body, have made a clear and clear decision that killings never become obsolete in the Republic of Slovenia. And that's the point. And when we talk about persecution, about the basis for persecution, you have to realize that in Germany, there are trials against people who have committed crimes, murders that are now 90, 100 years old; I think that the oldest is 102 years old. What do they mean by that? This suggests that the young generation of people who are coming, who are unburdened, that crime is not worth it, that murder is not worth it, that it is not worth it, and that it awaits you. If the rule of law works, we'll be waiting for you and never think of anything like that. This is the foundation of civilization, this is the foundation of a serious rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u18	Your Honor! But I have to get some air after this debate. Today's debate will take place in the light of the continuation of the debate from the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, as well as from the Committee on Culture. This is also evident from the proposal of the Penal Code itself, and this is confirmed by my predecessor, as he speaks only of the content already dealt with by the Irgle Commission. The new penal code was adopted in 2008. At that time, in 2008 Vlado was led by Mr Janez Janša. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, you have not noticed the problem of this article, despite the fact that you have corrected the article with the amendment. With today's addition to Article 95 of the Penal Code, an article adopted in 2008 is being infringed. Following the coordination of experts and the interested public, after a general discussion on the new criminal code, a public presentation of opinions on the whole code was made. Also on the 95th Article of the Penal Code. At that time, the proposer warned that it was a novelty in the carelessness of crimes. He explained it in two sentences, and I quote it. "This Article includes non-derogable offences. In particular, the worst crimes against humanity are listed, and are not negligent under the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and crimes of murder and terrorism." It is no coincidence that the proponents of this amendment of the Code of Penalties have put into the legislative process after discussions in the already mentioned working bodies of the National Assembly. Also, this debate and the debate on the following two points are going towards the abuse of the Assembly Halls of the State, while at the same time collecting signatures for something that we think is unnecessary for the Social Democrats. Social Democrats are aware that human life is untouchable, we respect the constitutional principle of the protection of human personality and dignity, the principle of legality in criminal law and the principle of the prohibition of the return of legal acts. Article 2 of the Penal Code provides that there is no criminal offence or non-legislative punishment. This means, I quote: "No one shall be punished or another criminal sanction for an offence which has not been defined by law as a criminal offence before it has been committed and for which no penalty or other criminal sanction has been prescribed by law." Article 7 also defines the time-limit, which means that I quote: "The perpetrator of the crime is subject to the law applicable to the commission of the offence. If, after the commission of a crime, the law is amended once or more, a law that is milder to the offender shall apply." The aim of the proposal is to make the proposal to supplement the Penal Code, if adopted, applicable to acts to the contrary. In its opinion, as well as many other legal experts, the Government points out that KZ-1C, if adopted, does not apply back. We are sure that the proponents know this well, but the intention is to discuss the SDV archives and other similar topics again somewhere else. Despite the introduction of Dr. Gorenak's threats, if I mention these contents, I hope to insist that this bill is also a package of other SDS actions, as the predecessor – colleague Breznik – confirmed. The proposed arrangements for the continuation of prosecution and criminal sanctions will not be applicable to the killings that took place prior to the entry into force of KZ-1C. In the event that this is possible, this would mean retroactive application. As stated in the Government's opinion, the criminal code should be carefully assessed as to whether an exceptionally permissible option under Article 155, paragraph 2, of the Constitution may be taken into account, that the law may provide that its individual provisions have a retroactive effect, if that so requires public benefit, and that it does not prejudice the rights acquired. In view of the fact that this is an intervention into an important institute of the general part of the Penal Code, the Government does not support this proposal. However, the competent ministry will examine the proposed solution, including the possibility of inclusion in the amendment of the Penal Code, which is being prepared or planned by the competent ministry. Social Democrats will not support the proposed decision in the appropriateness of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you, too. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor first, and Mrs Marija Plevčak is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government, good-bye! We wrote in the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group: It is time to face the dark patches of our past history; and now we mark the crimes as crimes. This should be done by the institutions of the rule of law, investigative and judicial bodies, and should not be hindered by policy. Something was said about the change in this law in 2008, why we did not write it down at the time when we were in the coalition or running the government. Maybe there's a reason that there's probably not much to know today. As far as I can remember, Barbara's trench wasn't open at the time, and they didn't know about it. This information came later. Some of the things that are known from the archives today about the actions of individuals in the Udba and some of the killings that have occurred have not been known. Regardless of the fact that this was not the case at the time, and if today, by entering into the law, the prosecution and execution of the penalty for crimes of murder would not be obsolete, they could be unified at this point in the National Assembly. It's not all that's been said here today. To talk about this, I don't know how many times, a hundred times, to condemn some political parties, but at the same time to take a step towards what we have written down, to mark crimes as crimes and leave them to the authorities to settle it, so that politics does not interfere with it, but we don't give it a chance. This is more to my mind than to hold a bag with us to approve of what happened and to sweep everything under the rug. No matter what some think, or I will say that they did, we had citizens and citizens who are not professionally involved in it, the right to think that the murder committed to the perpetrator is not outdated and that the murder committed will be held accountable for the rest of their lives, for the rest of their lives. And apparently that's not the case. Therefore, I will say, we will easily support this change, and I expected that with ease in the National Assembly we would have so much in common that it is not disputed. I didn't even think that this could be a change in this direction, that the murders don't get old, that the crime of murder doesn't get old enough to be shared by Parliament. You know, these are basic things in a democratic country, whether those who have committed these crimes are still alive, living among us, even active – probably not much more. But rather, they are no longer among us, or if they are not active; yet the dignity of all those slain, those who have done so, therefore the relatives have the right to know. Yesterday, I got something by e-mail about the archives of one of the archivists who disagreed with the collection of signatures. He says that in that metro the archives that are still in Owl, which I think were – by the end of March – dedicated to the Archives of Slovenia, are probably the most important matters in relation to the killings that were planned and so on. In short, there's going to be a lot of things coming out of that meter. Regardless of whether or not it was in 1990 — that is what this archivist says in the letter, I do not know, perhaps the remaining MPs and MPs received it by email — more than 85 percent of the Udba archives with individual files have been destroyed. It's incomprehensible, and I can't explain to myself that you can't even figure out who it was that ordered it to be done. Remember, colleagues and colleagues, right in the SD, how you changed the penal code in 95 and the Criminal Procedure Act that you were convicted of leaving Uroša Aljančič and Paul Kodra – who so harmed the Slovenian brand Elan – without prison, without a minute's imprisonment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much. First of all, thanks to New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party, which are intended to support the law, I have to say congratulations to Mr Breznik as a member of the younger generation who has prepared such a performance as he has prepared. Maybe it's easier for this generation than for some of us who belong to a slightly older generation to draw a line for the things we're talking about today. Look, I'm sorry about the government's position. You know, the Secretary of State, that I had a relationship with the Minister and with you in some way, at least in the past year. Both announced important judicial reforms, forecasting a change in KZ, changes or even a new CAP, predicting a series of changes that convinced me that they had a serious purpose. You were talking today about changing the penal code this year, and you could include these changes in the criminal code. The Coalition Treaty does not define this. There is almost nothing left in the coalition contract of all the targeted reforms that have been planned. Something about inheritance, a little bit about bankruptcy laws and nothing about changes to the Penal Code. I would like to hear from you whether it will be, or not; in the coalition contract you do not have this written down and I cannot then determine what and how. Here is one thing to say: I tried to draw a line and tried to tell you in the opening recital that it was not the crimes of the State Security Service, namely the Judgment, the fundamental reason that we wrote this law. It should also be borne in mind that in some ways it is questionable to apply the law backwards, although not quite as some of you have said in the recitals that this is absolutely not possible. In individual cases, this is also possible, however, if this is interpreted by the experts of the Faculty of Law who wrote the federal criminal law, the Republic criminal law which defined the verbal offence and anything else, and were in one way or another connected to the previous system; then it is clear that nothing will apply and that nothing can be implemented. That makes perfect sense. I think I've also told you a practical case, that's the Running Man case - four times the murder. Look, it's been 17 years, and we're not going to be wondering what happened in this room now that there's no longer a possible prosecution, even if the perpetrators or the perpetrators are found. It is more – it is a symbolic act. It's a symbolic act of breaking with the past. It is less important and subordinate at least to me whether this will apply backwards or not in accordance with our constitutional arrangements. This is less important to me. More important is whether this Parliament is capable of drawing a line at a symbolic level, whether this Parliament is capable of doing something symbolically in this area. This is a more important matter than anything else. Of course, by the National Gazette it was said that such important legislation could only be proposed by the Government. Of course that's not true. You know that. You know that. You know that. They shall legislate, any law may be proposed even by citizens, Members or anyone else. The government is not the only proposer in this world, and it is not the only one in particular. Mrs. Popot, we're back there, political theme. You're working on a political theme. You're working on a political theme. Our purpose is not in political darkness, and that's what I said in particular, isn't it? Political accounting. Yes, of course, you started it with Mr. Brulls. I didn't expect to spend all my time, but now you're letting me spend it. But in particular, I need to react there because you're telling the truth. You're saying that our country would be an exception if this case were to apply, so if it were possible to prosecute murderers so they wouldn't get old. You say it's an exception. That's not true! In the material that's before you, you have three countries listed, where that's not true, in Germany, go look. There they persecute all those guards after the prisons, after Auschwitz, or in these concentration camps, the campers are now over 95 years old. That's not out of date. And our country would not be any exception, but it would be closer to the circle of countries where these matters are substantially different. There is something to say if we are already speaking at the symbolic level, ladies and gentlemen, what is the difference. What's the difference? And that's what I'm asking you in public. What's the difference between Dachau, Auschwitz, Rab or Barbara's trench? So what's the difference? I visited two of these camps last year during my vacation. Wherever you come, things are arranged, it's given some historical memory and things are in place, including by countries where these things are standing, like Dachau. What's in Barbara's trench? What do we have there? There's a chapel that says "Death to a traitor." Ladies and gentlemen, as there were thousands of people in Auschwitz, Rab, anywhere else, so we also have several thousand in Barbara's trench, which we have not taken care of all these years, and which today – 60, 70 years after our death – we have insulted. We regret the mortal remains with such inscriptions as you can see there today. What I am talking about is strongly linked to politics and this Parliament. But who, if this Parliament is not and if the government in this area is not going to make a comparable situation to that of abroad – in a physical sense as well, I mean the management of graves, memorial parks or whatever else is there; as well as in a moral sense? Why is the difference the way I described it? Because of this policy, this Parliament has not been able to distance itself from the past for 23 years. That's the underlying reason for it. I refuse to be lectured by the people in this House who once cooperated with the State Security Service. I can't stand this. That's really hard to bear. And so here we have a reason why this is happening. If I go any further. Positive Slovenia, Mrs Kociper performed on her behalf, "we condemn all crimes, condemn everything, etc. "Yeah, it's the same thing as the United List. They also condemned a former system of things at a convention in 1996. But that's not enough. That's not enough. It's the same as saying that the gods are the ones who have nothing to eat, and we feel for them. No! No! We have to do something to make them have something to eat. And it is not enough to condemn such acts and to press the "no" button when it comes to voting on whether this country will help someone find a grave. See, that's the difference. Ad hoc solution, Mrs. Kociprova spoke. Typical ad hoc solutions will be remembered precisely by those who were in the previous assembly of Parliament. And that was an ad hoc solution, which I will now describe. Minister Zalar takes place in Odessa and says: The terrible mistake of my predecessor Šturm, the Penal Code for minors does not apply. With this he opened the way for so - called opportunity and told all the minors: Go on, go on. You can steal what you want, you can do whatever you want, you won't be punished because his predecessor, Storm, is supposed to make a mistake. You've sat on the door to your nose by Parliament. We've accepted five members on our necks. When I told you that this is not true, as Mr Zalar says, we have adopted a transitional and final provision and we have amended the law. The Constitutional Court then said that such a change was not necessary; the original 2008 penal code of the author of Mr Sturm was perfectly fine. You see – these are ad hoc solutions or harmful solutions if you want. Yes, how could we then erase the crime of bankruptcy in 2011 by mismanagement? This is no longer a crime today. However, we have introduced, this Parliament, a crime of bankruptcy with a view to harming, which is a matter of urgency. Look at the statistics, I was talking about it when we accepted it, there are no such crimes in Slovenia. But everyone who's involved in bankruptcy is clearly saying that he's stealing as much as you want. But that's no longer a crime, at least in case of bankruptcy. That's what ad hoc changes are, not what we're talking about. If the coalition had a serious purpose, at least I would say; okay, we have concerns, here are problems, it will apply back, it will not apply, let the law go into second treatment, we get some more opinions, opinions, etc., and we decide to accept. No, not that. And there's that mistake. And I don't know if I can believe it or not that the law will be amended by the end of the year, as the Secretary of State had predicted. Ms Kociprova talked further about the attempt to divide citizens. Look, if the issue of neglect of a crime of murder can be shared by our citizens, I can't imagine it. Anyone who does a survey among people today and asks people if you are for the crime of murder never to be aged, I am deeply convinced that the result would be the same as it was on plebiscite. I'm pretty sure of that. So who's sharing, Mrs. Kociprova?Oh, my God! Our proposal cannot share the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia because it introduces a fundamental thing that is called murder is forbidden; it is never obsolete. He introduces it and he doesn't introduce anything else. And that can't be any division. No division. It was said, "We have no problems with murder and murder" before Mrs Kociprova left. Okay. But with their statute of limitations, yes, obviously, if you intend to vote against it. To conclude this part of my work, here is another – what Mr Brulc said. Look, in 2008, you didn't notice, and so on, because you were sitting here, and you could have made some kind of amendment if I wasn't wrong, just like me. However, in 2008, when this penal code was written, it must be made clear that the then opposition, in which you were present, also you sat there, was most strongly opposed to the adoption of the Penal Code. All the professions with the Council of Justice were worth saying: Impossible, this can't happen, these are too quick a solution. We are not prepared, the judicial system said that a new criminal code could be applied, there were too few educations and so on. All this is the time of this marriage. At the same time, it's a time we haven't talked about Barbara's trench. I think it was opened once or even later at the time. This is not the time when we knew that the equation between people who once planned, ordered, carried out what you want, killings; that these are the people who are actually leading this country from behind. Was it Mr Drnovšek, or was it later Mr Rop, Janša, Pahor, Bratuškov and so on? These same people behind their backs are running this country. It's a troubled story. That's the problem. Abuse of the hall, you said, Mr Brulc, signatures and archives, I really didn't intend to talk about signatures and archives today. Because it's some sort of thing that belongs to another item of the agenda. If you are opening this subject for the House of State speaker, I must answer you. I have to answer that. Today, now in force, the 2006 Archives Act has 11 restrictions protecting victims of the State Security Service and no restrictions or protection for officials of the State Security Service. What is the law that is the subject of the referendum initiative? This law equated the victims with the perpetrators and introduced six protection points for all. As far as the victims are concerned, they are less protected; but as far as the slaves are concerned, they are protected under the new law with six items. And here's the problem of the referendum, and that's why we proposed a referendum. Who among us today is interested in the trick on the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, performed by the Minister of Culture. Those lists published there today, reports on the work of the State Security Service 48, 45-55; who cares. Do you think that's where they lost someone in the lists? There's no such list in there. It publishes irrelevant things, some rules, and I don't know what's in there — until 1975. No, no, that's not what the Slovenian public is interested in. The Slovenian public is interested in who ordered the murders, who planned them, who paid them, who planned them, and who carried them out. This is of interest to the Slovenian public, and this part of the archive has not been published. That's a trick, and so here's our basic problem. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you. I give the floor first to the representative of the Government, Ms Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to answer Mr Gorenak's questions or observations. It is true that the Penal Code or the novelty is not in the coalition contract; however, the amendment of this law is in the Government's normative programme of work, which was adopted on 9 January this year. At the Ministry of Justice, the criminal code is already on the table and needs to be amended because of the environmental protection directive. We also aim to amend or amend certain crimes and some other things are open, so I have said correctly and honestly when I said in my opening statement that we support the objective you are pursuing with your proposal or that we are assessing it as completely legitimate. However, due to the timing of our work, this proposal will be examined when the new Penal Code is on the table and is expected to be discussed by the Government in September this year. However, we would like to do so earlier because this is an important systemic change, as we all have seen today, we have gained the opinion of the professional public. So much for the Penal Code and our intentions regarding it. With regard to the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, I would like to say that it is just before the final harmonisation and treatment of the Government. While this paper has been prepared at the Ministry for some time, we have carried out an additional round of coordination and made further efforts, further reflection on some of the police proposals, whether the time is ripe or whether they are already so appropriate and pretentious that we can put them into this novel. That is why the Criminal Procedure Act, according to our original plan, has been somewhat delayed, but, as I said, the new KKP-M is just before it goes to the government. I'd like to tell you about your thoughts about the four-time murder in Running Man that the four-time murder was negligent after KZ-1, which is already under the 2008 Penal Code; but the crime in Running Man happened earlier. At the time of the service of this offence under the then applicable Penal Code, a 30-year limitation period has been set for such a crime, so that it is still available for a period of time when the clarification and the procedure relating to this four-time murder are discussed. Above all, I wanted to clarify the Ministry's intention or programme of work in relation to criminal laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In my debate, I would like to draw attention first to the fact that our criminal code also provides for the indemnity of certain criminal offences, namely the prosecution and execution of penalties for offences for which the Penal Code provides for the imposition of the sentence of life imprisonment, for the offences of Articles 100 to 105 of the Penal Code and for those offences for which there is no statute of limitation under international treaties. In doing so, I would like to point out or point out which offences these articles refer to. Article 100 of the Penal Code refers to the crime of genocide, Article 101 on crimes against humanity, Article 102 on war crimes, Article 103 on aggression, Article 104 on the responsibility of military commanders and other superiors, and Article 105 of the Penal Code refers to the association and protection, genocide, crimes against humanity or aggression. These are the crimes that our criminal code now defines as crimes for which prosecution is not obsolete. I, too, believe that this is a very repugnant crime. Thinking about whether to introduce a provision into our criminal code that this crime would not be obsolete, there is no proposal that we should not think about or should be carefully assessed and then recorded in the criminal code, as we would have defined. The government's guarantee, which said that when the Penal Code was amended – which was to take place as early as 2014, this year – would also reflect on this proposal. I think that's right. For for such important matters as the retroactive validity of one is determined, it is not appropriate to decide on it ad hoc; but it must be decided when it comes to a systemic change, especially when it comes to the laws, not the ordinary laws. I do not think that I will be able to support today's proposal; however, I will definitely actively participate in the Government's proposal to amend the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Pavlisič. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! Allow me to take a look at the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Penal Code, which we are considering today through the optics of the values of the European Union or better – the Slovenian-European Union. In the 20th century, two inhuman totalitarian systems developed, communism and Nazism, which caused millions of victims. The military defeat of Nazism in World War II allowed his crimes to be exposed, investigated, and condemned. The same thing happened to criminals themselves. The communist system has also collapsed. But this was not followed by a similar, in my firm belief, a necessary international judgment. The European Union was born in the shadow of two totalitarian regimes. It was a response to the horrors of World War II and the horrors of the Holocaust, and it was also important to keep the territorial spread of Stalinism alive and to preserve the hope that one day Europe will be reunited in democracy and peace. The European Union – one of the most successful endeavors in human history – has succeeded in accomplishing both tasks. Its establishment was followed by a long period of peace and progress that has not yet been made in history. It is not a coincidence that Greece, Spain and Portugal decided to join in following a solution from under totalitarian rule. It is also not a coincidence that after the fall of communism, all the countries of Central and Eastern Europe have opted for this path – and not for any other path. Among them is our young country Slovenia. Another sign of success is that the Balkan countries also see their future in the European Union, as well as some countries in Eastern Europe and the Southern Caucasus, which are still suffering under the oppressive regimes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently been following events live in Ukraine, where young and old citizens of this country remain in the streets night and day despite the severe cold and want to implement European Union units in their own country. They've done it in part. The president, who disobeyed his people, has been banished. There is still a long and thorny path to peace and full implementation of European values. We don't talk about totalitarianism because we want to live in the past. No, no, no. We want to look to the future; we can only avoid mistakes and sins of the past if we learn about the past, if we process it, if we process it within ourselves. It is not possible to make peace if we do not process the past and accept the truth. This is one of the most important historical teachings of the past decade. That's why it's so important to remember the horrors of totalitarianism. We still have a lot to do. In some Member States, unfortunately, my country of Slovenia is not yet sincere and with the consensus expressed by the political will to condemn totalitarian systems. In Slovenia, even after 10 years of membership in the European Union, we have not opened the door to European consciousness. Only if we fully understand the suffering caused by these regimes can we fully understand the present. The European Union is a complete contrast to totalitarianism. For those of us who have come out of the grip of communism, membership in the European Union is one of the fundamental guarantees that we will never fall into totalitarianism again. This is a guarantee that we have in common, something that we must appreciate and never take lightly. The common consciousness and memory of the past strengthen the values of the present. Unfortunately, in a number of Member States, including my own country, the messengers of extreme positions are growing stronger. It is important that we also make clear to them the horrors of both regimes. Europe cannot have a clear conscience until it fully explores its past and impresses it on its memory. Only with the memory of the victims will we fully fulfill our duty, since it is our common responsibility and responsibility to ensure that the 21st century is different from the 20th century and that the fears of communism and Nazism will never return to Europe again. Christianity and the doctrine of universal human rights offer us a uniform standard, a standard of human dignity, and unconditional respect for human life. Therefore, we must condemn all attempts at counting that are now in fashion that the inhuman dictator has killed or humiliated more people. Democrat, a European cannot accept that even today people for whom the crimes of the Communist dictatorship are justifiable and forgiving. The double criteria between the victim and the victim, crime and crime, suffering and suffering, death and death are unacceptable. Those who try to justify the crimes of the Communist dictatorship claim that the regimes of all these horrors began in the name of noble ideas, in the name of equality and in the name of brotherhood. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge lie. And all that they have done must be considered bad, not good; for they have deceived their own people with the promises of noble purposes. For Christian Democrats, human life is sacred, and the law under consideration deserves my full attention and approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get ready, Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u30	That's a good-bye! This time, too, it is a debate on values, a debate that could be different if the Ministry were to prepare promised reforms, a promised legislation that does not only cover the Penal Code, but would have to cut deeply into many other laws regulating the Slovenian judicial system in the broadest sense of the word. Today, things are going on that should not have happened in a normal state of law, and in many ways Slovenia's legal order is not at all comparable to the regulation of the European Union. This is what the European Union reminds us and rightly warns us not only of the speed of proceedings but also of the fact that some solutions are inconsistent with other legal practice. Some are simply the relic of another system, which has been uncritically passed into individual laws, but today this is perfectly preserved. Why is that? I think the problem is really in values. And that is why I am saying that this is a debate on values. The highest value under the Slovenian Constitution is human life and it is therefore clear that when it comes to murdering a man, he should never have aged. Only such an arrangement is known by the vast majority of democratic countries; others with different solutions have other levers. However, the Slovenian acquis is quite open here. Why? Because the old proverb says, "Bad conscience is a bad thing." Today, it is trying in every way, including by blacking out, in the anonymity of the archives, to equate criminals and victims, to conceal what was really going on. All of Europe today sees people killed on its soil during the previous regime, even in violation of the then Yugoslav legislation, and this tries to investigate and prosecute the perpetrators. In our country, it's trying to get under the carpet, hide in anonymity. They're all just as guilty, they're all victims, which, of course, is not true. This is a deep non-European and reflects a lack of values. The value in which it is absolutely clear that the victim is a victim and that the crime is a crime; regardless of who did it, and whatever the justification, with what high and noble goals he has made public declaration — he has committed a crime. And crime is not an old age, the crime of this kind should never have aged. And that is what we propose as a novel of the Penal Code, to protect the value of human life permanently, and to say that crime — whenever it has been committed, because it is the worst crime, for you take a man’s life — never too old. This is also, in some ways, a symbolic break with something that has been the practice of the previous regime; above all, it is something that slowly opens the way for the entry of European values into our country where these values are lacking. And it's not about ideology, it's not about development. I have to do this over and over again in the National Assembly. We have become, unfortunately, in the eyes of everyone who wants to work with us, a strange red exot. Such an exosote is avoided by all those looking for business partners who want to invest their money somewhere, and that is why we all live worse. This is a fundamental development issue of the country of Slovenia. First of all, the fundamental development issue is also the issue of wrong solutions in the Slovenian legal order, those that are not in line with European values, and the non-European legal system, where, even after the warnings of the European Union, there are still many difficult tasks ahead. I just want to – and with this I will end, which I have also started – so that the ministry will speed up the steps and show much more courage. This is a matter of Slovenian development and your responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor and Mrs Plevčak should be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u32	At this point in the agenda, we all agree only on the sanctity of life. But when we talk about what one should do and what one thinks about it, the devil is in detail or what we really say in small print and what we have said. If I only comment on Mr Horvath and agree with him, it is necessary to condemn Nazism as well as communism for everything he has done wrong. What about fascism, ladies and gentlemen?Oh, my God! What about him?Oh, my God! What about the cooperation of fascists with the Church? What is this we're not talking about?Oh, my God! So it seems to me that it would be fair to talk about everything that was involved in what was wrong. I agree that murder is not an age — if we're talking about all the murders and if we're talking about the Runner. But when we talk about everything that Mr Breznik said, he said the SDS's position on what the SDS's view on the previous regime is, how it feels about our former common country and all those who did or did everything you did in this country. Individuals among us as members, as you say, Udbe, individuals among us as militiamen, commanders, inspectors. All those who had this possibility in that system performed it — as a strong system, a member of the Communist Union — today teach what was wrong with that system. Overturned, bad, and not nearly in the spirit of what is to be done today or by everyone in their own time! We could've done what had to be done then. Of course, the problem is that the position of the SDS — by memory — is that we can read — condemn the former totalitarian regime in all its dimensions. Ladies and gentlemen, this already reminds us of something other than the sanctity of life. It's about clearing up, breaking up with the country we lived in together. The country in all the positive things that this common country has been, because it was our legislation. That's why I can't agree with it. Today, in my view, someone was also talking about symbolically breaking up with the past. I agree, ladies and gentlemen. What about the collaboration with the fascists? What about the Belogardists' judgment, crimes against the Slovenian people. What about the judgment, the actual cooperation both with the fascists and the Nazis, with the invaders here. What about those convictions? Who's gonna judge those guys? I agree that we will achieve reconciliation when we all honestly say that we do not agree with what the communists did if you want, and what the fascists, the Nazis, the Belarusians, all those who did it. Let's do this. Yeah, sure, it's a hell of a pit. What about the Celestial Pisker, what about Urh, and what about Frankol's, what about all those sacrifices that were made, what about all those unnamed and killed partisans and patriots who were killed without having the right to fight for their homeland. That is why it seems to me that today it is a political topic, such as the SDS, that many open up, which does not belong to the National Assembly today. That the sanctity of life is part of the code, and that it is also up to us to respect legality. I don't think anyone, if he was the commander of the militia station in the former regime, has to be tried today for this. It's like someone doesn't have to judge if he was a member of the Communist Union because it was a legitimate, legal party in that system, whatever we think today. As was the militia and many militiamen, they were excellent, just as today police officers were excellent, and they worked for the good of our country. That is why I think that today, as we are talking about the verbal delicacy of that system, we should condemn hate speech, ladies and gentlemen. Hate speech when we talk about it. It seems to me that someone is saying that we don't condemn members of the Communist Union, those who were, say, just members of the Communist Union and were "examined". I think of Janez Janša, who was a member of the Communist Union, as well as of Vinko Gorenak, and of whom — even of me personally — of course I was a member of the Communist Union. But don't think about the ones who led these parties. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is lustration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Of course, I always have a lot of options when Mr Meh answers. Look, Mr. Meh, here's the fundamental difference between that and that side of you on that side. You were just talking about the former party being a party. Did you forget to say she was the only one? Did you forget to say that she banned everything else? Did you forget to say that with the help of the political police, she had others killed? That's what you forgot to say. You made an equation like it was a democratic party, but it wasn't. We both know. Second thing, you were talking about how the party members in that system could handle something. I think we met for the first time, in my memory, when you were mayor or something, in that previous system, and I was the police chief from Celje. But I'm still asking if you knew about the pit at the time. Not me. Did you know about the Tehars back then? Not me. I guess you didn't know either. So how would you handle things that you and I didn't know about? You've had your differences with Mr. Breznik. He knows how to answer you. He wasn't talking about what you said. He spoke of the fact that it is not possible for those 10, 15 % of the population who were once in the party to be automatically condemned. That's what he was talking about. But it is necessary to condemn those who led this. But this is her exposure, the leadership, so to speak, which has fallen under the chandeliers on all systems, not you and not me, because I don't think you were, at least not at the top of any CK. At least I don't know what it would be; as it would be for me.Look, you said, what about Frankol's, what about Urh, and what about the Celje Pisker, these are all the places where I've been. Were you in the pit? Have you been to any other place? I've been to these. All of these today — Urh, Pisker, Frankolova — are arranged graves and it is right that things are arranged. They've been fixed up for 70 years. Mr. Meh, what about Barbara's trench? When this one has the same image and has the same status, then there will be some righteous situation, but today it is not. Let's move on. Breaking up with the former country. Didn't we break up with her? I think we are. When I voted for Slovenia alone, I counted on it to be. How you voted, I don't know, I don't go into it. Breaking up with the former country means breaking up in a wide range of areas. In clientship, in court, and many others. But the problem is, we didn't break up with the former country. That the same people who then led the country in a formal and legal way and after the then applicable legislation continue to guide it today. Those lefts and rights, and I know what other governments, are just some puppet that has real botts and real leaders in the back. I wish this would stop, but it didn't. This is not supported by us, it is supported by you, the political left in Slovenia, which suits you that someone else from behind is leading it. You were talking about convictions, about all those who cooperated with the invaders. Yeah. Do you see any problem with that? Did I ever, or did someone on this side say it was a good thing? No, no, no. The former state has condemned cooperation with the occupying forces and this country has not rehabilitated cooperation with the occupying forces. So the conviction of the employees of the occupying party is valid, valid and valid. But I don't know when you'll be ready to rehabilitate those in Barbara's trench today or anywhere else. You know, until you're even ready to go there until you're ready to carry the wreath there, just like I'm carrying it to Franklin's, if necessary – and I did it and also in the name of the National Assembly – but also in the trench of Barbara. Go once, we'll both go there, and you'll see what's there. It would be right if that part was arranged as you said, as you said, by Francolo's, Urh, Old Pisker and so on; but it's not. See, that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u36	Mr. Gorenak, apparently your information about our former common country is strange as well. Never in the previous country have I been president of the congregation, nothing of what it would have been; and of course this is a slightly strange speech, not in place. Even if I were, I would actually be proud to be able to do some of my work in that country for the good of the people. That's what we've been doing. And I'm not too old to have anything wrong with II. World War II. That the same people who ran the former country are leading now — that is your opinion. You are the same ex from before, but now you are leading it, but I think it is right; I am the same ex, but in this country I have performed a number of such tasks, and I see nothing wrong with it. I'm talking about doing celebrations where we honor those who have collaborated with the invader, the belogardists and the collaborators with the invaders. And we don't judge them. To blame us or me for continuing only what was good in the old country, the property we have, of course, all that the country has accomplished in the outside, and the non-classification, and elsewhere, we have been all that was necessary. And I remember what those who, after telling my parents, uncles and aunts who passed us to Austria were doing, what happened in the valley of thought. Those would ask what they thought about who was doing bad for that common country of ours at the time. My relatives would like to tell you what happened at the time. There's a few more alive, older than me who could say that. And it was really bad back then. But not by our fault, we lived here completely peacefully, and someone came here and this someone wanted to conquer our country, take away our independence, whatever it was back then. And one of us, our brothers and sisters, helped these people. And that's bad. That's why I think my conscience, you know, is absolutely clear with all those who have done anything. And so once again, you're starting politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Once again, I repeat that there was no intention in such ideological water to seduce the thing, but Mr Meh is taking it; then we will have it. Once again, Mr Meh, no one has said that any cooperation with the invaders was smart, good or honorable. This has been condemned before and remains condemned today, if you will. You don't want to see this. But you didn't answer my question if you're ready to go with me. Oh, no. Go once to Barbara's trench, you'll see something there, not just on Franklin's. I've been to Francolov's, as I told you before. Now you've made yourself and me an uncle from behind. It's a hoax, at least that's what you used to say. Lenart Zajc, one of the organizers of the protests, said of Primorska novice: "Our goal with the demonstrations has succeeded. The government of Janez Janša has fallen. That was our goal. We were helped by an uncle in the background who did not want to be exposed. We had a lot of support from the media and trade unions." I'm talking about those uncles that work out there somewhere else. And the party in Rotta. There's something to read, there's been no domestic celebration in Rottah, but there were 100 and so many dead from this village who were killed after the war, that we're in the clear. And the record on that church was set up in 1993 on behalf of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, there was a defence minister present. The decision was taken by the Government of Drnovska. Back then, it wasn't a problem to put a board on the church. Nothing was problematic, the same speaker of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from 1993 attended last year. But then there was a problem. But why was it a problem because the Pyrovec and those down there made a boulder revolution? And they made it a problem. This is a problem and it is not a matter of worshiping patriotism. Look the truth in the eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Maria Plevčak, then Mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I have little time left, but in the debates now taking place on this site, one cannot help but feel that this is part of ideology and that this is a continuation of the debates from the Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Education. The party proposing amendments to this law was in power. Why she didn't reach into these things at the time, she had the opportunity, and she could be sure that this would work. That is why I still believe that the SDS proposal is unacceptable to us. From it we can understand deliberate political retroactive accounting [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] , i.e. from the previous regime; maybe you have someone else in mind from this regime. [[…]] I would like to stress, however, that the young people we are discussing here are of no interest at all and that today we can discuss how to give young people a job, how to keep them abroad in Slovenia. I think this would be a productive debate; not what we are talking about today. I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u41	Dr. Gorenak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I agree with you if you spoke to Mr Meh, who started it, and to Mr Brultz. Yeah, well, then you'll hear more from me. Yeah, that's exactly what it takes. This debate is not necessary in the way it is. And I can agree with you on that. However, Mr Brulc and Mrs Kociprov opened the debate in the introduction. I'm not even ready for what's going on here today. My purpose as a proponent was to discuss exactly what the papers say. Look at the magnetogram and you'll see who started this debate. Mrs. Kociper, Mr. Brulc and Mr. Meh. Tell them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrina's not in the hall, it's Mr. Mirko Brulc's turn. Then Mrs. Sonja Ramshak. Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you. I continue to discuss Mr Breznik. He was right in front of me, and then I kept going, and now we're gonna talk about it. In the introduction, I said what the position of the Social Democrats is on this bill. We still have 13 hours of debate today, and I don't think we need to participate – you see how participation is. Because there's no way anyone can convince you of anything. I think your soldiers, those who support you, are interested in these subjects. Not all citizens and citizens. Archives, state symbols, anthems, all that still awaits us today — people don't care. I think it's an empty, today's meeting of the National Assembly. Some of you, though, act like you didn't live in your previous regime of blood. But you helped build this so-called totalitarianism, including in uniforms and under the star. Why don't you just go ahead and do your own chandeliers? Yeah. Yes, there have been different times, but of course there is no way to generalize and measure with the same vats of all totalitarianism. Events in DDR, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland are not comparable to Yugoslavia at the time. They're not. Even though we know they were mistakes and we apologized. Now I don't know why I should be apologizing to you today. I don't know who your side is. Why? What am I going to apologize for? What did I do wrong? Prove one thing to me, and I lived in that system, and there are three quarters of us here, more than three quarters of us who lived there. Look, with this apology, what Dr. Gorenak said SD apologized. Yes, we apologized on behalf of those who once under the name of the Communist Union did stupid things. And today, there are a number of them under another client again. I hope it's not so bloody because there's no chance, but things are different. Back then, they were different than they were today. My friend Grimes is talking about exotics, red exotics. Which he comes from yellow exotics, or blues, or blacks, or whatever. We're all from the same exosotes, only brains have to meet us, nothing else. It's all right. We need to be met by reason of intelligence. In the previous country there was always an enemy somewhere; in the West the Italians were preparing, threatening us; whether Hungarians, or Austrians, or anyone. That system worked in such a way that he had an enemy somewhere, and so he calculated that the nation would come together and be so firmer. You transferred the same sample to this system. You keep talking about some enemies, uncles from behind, people who run everything in this country. These are real delusions, I think. No uncle from behind me, not Milan Kučan, who I'm about to say, I don't know. He never affected me. And I'm meeting, and we're talking. And you have this enemy, and you're all happy, but there's no psychiatrist in this country to relieve you of that burden. There's no way. [[Laughing in the hall]] So please stop with these uncles in the background. Tell me if it was Pepi Tone, he said it and that, he did it and that, report the matter and let the law enforcement authorities do their thing. Not so imaginary, though, that I should almost be afraid to go down the street and talk to someone, for — what if my uncle is from behind. As soon as it's a little gray, it's easy. There are so many problems in this country that we should talk about, solve them together – not us, you, ours, you, who apologizes to anyone, etc. That's not what this is about. And let's put some energy into it. All of us who are here now, if we went to Tivola to pick up a broken branch by the stomach, would get a round of applause from citizens and citizens. After the 13 hours that we're gonna spend here today, we're just gonna fight to talk. Somehow you take us into this river to participate in these matters. I'm not answering anymore, and I'm really going out, because I think the ones that aren't here today are the smartest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Brultz. Mr Breznik, you have not yet discussed so that you cannot have the replica, but then you have the opportunity to discuss it below. I can't give you a replica. All you had was a presentation of the Group's position. Let's move on. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak has the floor. Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u46	Dear Vice President. The only thing I agree with Mr Brulco is that at least the government's lack of interest has withdrawn. At the first reading of the important amendment of the important system law, the government representatives literally stepped out, and we have no government representative in the National Assembly. It is really questionable what attitude not only to criminal law, but to all the debate that has taken place. And in this context, I would ask procedurally for you to call them back or to suspend the meeting in 15, 20 minutes, half an hour, so that they can come back to you so that we can continue this session at first reading normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much for the procedural proposal. This power to call the government and the government actually comes, but I don't. But together we can see that the government representatives have left us and that they are obviously not interested in the subject. We continue with the next debate – Mrs Sonja Ramšak. Then it's up to you, Mr. Tanko. Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say, after practically two hours of discussion in this Chamber, I can be sad. The material prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party in connection with the proposed amendment to the Penal Code does not speak anywhere about the half-lived history you wanted to seduce. You're saying we're taking you to some river. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on the other hand, today we are talking about amending the Penal Code, talking about common human values, respect for human rights and freedoms and about the fact that crime must never be obsolete. And we're very different in this – and I'm going to say it now – on this side opposite the other side. I also lived in another system, which you claim to be the only one you know. Yeah, he's got nice, bad sides. And I'm sorry he's got a bad side too. These are the pages for which we share ours and yours in Slovenia today, which is extremely bad for me. I don't know why you do this over and over and over again. You're saying that the Slovenian Democratic Party is doing this – it's not true. The Slovenian Democratic Party wants to live in accordance with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and that that part of our dark past must be confronted and pursued. But you're always talking only about partisans and I don't know what and about patriots, and we're talking about violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Dear colleague, you said that young people were not interested in this subject. Young people's themes are very interesting. And I'll tell you why. If you live in your world and don't go among people, you won't see it. In those days when signatures are being collected to prevent the closing of the archives of the Udba, many young people are being advertised in our stands and are not members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. But there are young people who think with their heads and say that it is necessary to condemn these matters and that it is necessary to leave the archives of the Judgment open. That's the truth. And when you say that we do not want to discuss the problems that are in this society – who opens up at meetings of the National Assembly and on committees of topics that are still relevant, about the economic situation, about the financial situation, about unemployment. And over and over again we hear in this hall that these are irrelevant themes and let the government work. Yes, of course, let him work, but already two government meetings have gone without any law. Is this the government's work in these times of crisis? No, no, no. I don't think so! But on this side we are used to working, but literally doing — what we say, we do. On the other hand, unfortunately, the coalition says one thing, and you do the other. And I will end this debate and I hope that you will also stay focused on the content of today's item, which is the amendment to the Penal Code, and what the speech is actually about today. The bill proposes a solution that prosecution and enforcement of the crime of murder should not be obsolete, respected colleagues and colleagues. And all those who oppose this change of law, in fact, support crime, support murder. Yeah, you can sigh. I, too, sigh when you never heed the opposition's good proposals. How can we be constructive if you refuse any proposed solution to the opposition? Where there is a problem here – the problem is what your values are and what our values are. For me, the inviolability of human life is an extremely high value, a fundamental constitutional category. There's a difference, and here's what separates us, not by color, not by any other thing. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I strongly recommend that you at least read the material that has been provided to you. I often find that you don't take enough time to read the material, because if you did, you wouldn't be able to say the things you said today. And the uncles from the background who said "we are not uncles from behind", and I don't think Mr Brulco and Mr Mech are uncles from behind. These are completely different people who should have withdrawn from politics and public life long ago, not harmed our country or separated Slovenia and Slovenians or nationals and citizens. I think that at one of Mr Meh's extraordinary meetings, it was said that our former common country was a state of law because it had a constitution and laws. Yes, she had constitutions and laws, but what this former country did — she committed crimes without judgment. She killed people, Slovenes and Slovenians, citizens and citizens of the former country. And that's what the political police did, the Ascension by order of the then ruling structure. And I have nothing to do with this ruling structure of the former system! I didn't participate in the murders, I didn't support these crimes, because we didn't even know about these crimes, they didn't teach us that at school. When we first heard of postwar killings without court orders — perhaps in 1986, 1987, when some people had somehow relaxed that cramp and started talking about things that were not to be discussed in the past. And tell me why today my granddaughter cannot know where her grandfather is buried! And he had nothing to do with the fascists, the Nazis, and so on, because they came to look for him at night, took him away, and left his mother with two children alone, without the possibility of survival, and without knowing what had happened to her husband. And what happened — in 1956, when she wanted to marry another person, she had to get divorced first without knowing where her husband was, whether he ended up in the grave pit or somewhere else, whether he was alive or not. Don't these people have the right to find out where their deceased are? And what you are saying is that we continue with a topic that has opened up to the Commission for the Respect of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms – and that the name of the Commission already tells you what the essence of this Commission is. And if you do not condemn crimes, you are not worthy to be Members and Members, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members! I'm guessing the government isn't here. The government has not announced obstruction at this point of the agenda, but has announced an hour of time for discussion. One hour! Without anyone explaining anything by the government, those two other people who were here, who were supposed to defend the government's position, moved away. The law is at first reading, we are discussing what the goals are, the purpose of the law, to define these principled things. The government is not taking part in this debate. That is why I propose, Vice-President, that you order a half-hour recess to come or until the Government comes to the meeting of the National Assembly and defends, defends the position and also responds to the discussions of fellow Members. I think everything else that's going on in the National Assembly is unacceptable. It has been unacceptable for a long time, since the government has practically been at any important point that we are proposing does not discuss, nor does it answer, whether it is a matter of legal proposals – this next one, or any extraordinary meetings that we are proposing on economic topics. Nothing is right, we've proposed intervention measures, it wasn't right. We're proposing an interpolation. It's not real again. You can't work like this. The government's obligation is that it is present in the National Assembly. It's her job. It's her primary assignment. If the government doesn't realize this role, then it doesn't know any other things. That is why we are in the situation we are in. Vice-President, I suggest you order the suspension until the conditions for the continuation of the sitting are met. Especially since the government has announced an hour to discuss and does not debate and is not even here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I must agree with you that it is extremely strange that the representatives of the Government are not here among us in the National Assembly, so that we can hear what the government is really like with this bill. Even more. The government was here, and somehow it left the room demonstratively because obviously for the government, it's not an interesting topic. However, I note that the absence of government representatives is not a commercial reason for the suspension of the sitting, as their obligation is not present. Once again, it is very strange that the government representatives are not here. I suggest we compromise. I will not interrupt this session and give the government ten minutes to come to the National Assembly and play an active role in presenting my views on the proposal for this law. By 11:45, the government has time to come to the National Assembly, or I will interrupt the meeting. Procedurally, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much. For the sake of respect for the National Assembly, I agree in one part with Mr Tank that it is wrong that the government is not in the National Assembly when we are talking about the law. Let me see what I think about this law and this ideological debate. If we have any law in the National Assembly, it is true that the government is present and that the government can also respond to any negligence or irregularities spoken by various Members from both the left and the right. However, Article 239, paragraph 2, does not allow the meeting to be suspended. Not to generalise, not the whole government or the ministry – some ministers have been working and working all day in the National Assembly and some other ministries have taken matters with their left hand. I agree that there will be no adjournment of the meeting after 15 minutes until the Ministry of Justice arrives. What I think about this meeting is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Han, also for your procedural proposal. Apparently you, too, are bitter in the coalition over the absence of the government and agree that the government should be present here. You'll get another procedural one. However, I hope that we can conclude by giving the government another chance, now they have seven minutes to come, or we are adjourning the meeting. Procedurally, please, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u54	Vice President, you haven't seen this great resentment since my performance, but respect for the National Assembly must be, even if you were in opposition or position. The government is here to respect the National Assembly and this temple of democracy, whatever people think of this temple and think of us. But I'm not sure how bitter and I'm not going to pass out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u55	The main thing is that we got along. You don't agree that the government isn't here. We're moving on to the session. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Many of you read the suggestions of the Slovenian Democratic Party that they are not in the spirit of time and not in the spirit of the situation we are in. But whatever we're suggesting, it's all conflicted on the coalition side. Whether it be agricultural laws, these should be intervention laws, such as economic laws, taxes or anything else. However, if we did not deal with these three laws of the Slovenian Democratic Party today, then the meeting would be closed. And the government wouldn't do anything else about it. Nothing more. Nor would there be any further proposals for laws, nor would the coalition do anything else. Unfortunately, we must find that many of the things we do in the National Assembly are repeated, only due to the work of the coalition. Such an example is a real estate tax. We have tabled a series of proposals, a series of amendments, a series of initiatives on the committee, at a meeting of the National Assembly, but it has all gone so vehemently. The voting majority, the voting machine has done its part, and now that the matter is at the Constitutional Court, the government is coming with some new solutions. Yesterday or Monday, the president of the government said that the law adopted by the coalition was fair. What, then, are these changes that you are now bringing from the government and that will come later than before in the National Assembly?Oh, my God! Unfair. You're telling us that we're trying to share citizens with this bill. However, I wonder how we share our citizens. Citizens are divided, we don't share, they're divided. And after these discussions in the National Assembly, which we have heard from both the government and the coalition, we are divided into citizens who are accused of accepting an unknown payment promise in an unknown place in an unknown way. And for that they get a two-year or more term sentence. And we are divided into citizens who were involved in mass killings. And nothing should happen to these citizens, absolutely nothing. We are in a situation where no one has ever been responsible for destroying 90, 95% of the archives of the secret services of the predecessor country. No one was answering. Now the rest of the archives that were left are trying to anonymously erase the names so that they could still be removed. And by legislation – which has been adopted and which has not already been implemented, which is a particular problem, even in the previous country, criminal legislation has not been implemented – further protection of persons involved in terrorist acts, mass killings, criminal acts using terrorist methods, the use of means of murder and so on. We are, in my opinion, the only country or one of the few countries in Europe where, due to the conduct of power, the former authorities, so much desire for exhumation, the excavations, the identification of locations where they are – not buried, but muddy – the victims. And all these proposals, which should be part of civilization and civilization's decisions, are blocked. Not only are they blocking in some way, but those who want to get to their relatives, part of the power, part of the coalition majority is even mocking. I think we should do something. There have been cases of systemic crimes, state terrorism, State murder. It was not an act that was committed just like that, but it was an act that was committed after the decision of the state authorities. It's not a random crime of two people who got in some kind of fun and someone died, or it was an act of contrition. It was about systemic activity! And we are the only country in Europe, the only country that has not recognized anyone who has participated in these 10,000 victims; more or less 90% were done at the time of the war in Europe. We didn't recognize anyone. I think that this is a very problematic thing, and it shows the moral perversion of those who block it or even advocate it. Now I'm asking you this only because the government isn't here and it's obviously not going to be. It just passed. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u57	That's exactly what I wanted to warn you, Mr. Tanko. In this place, I would have interrupted the session because I promised we'd stop the session in half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u58	All right, well, I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u59	The ladies from the Ministry seem to have joined at the last minute. Please, you will now have the opportunity to participate in the debate. Mr Tanko, I give you my word for the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. In the introduction, in the presentation of the Government's position, the State Secretary said that it was not appropriate, it was not appropriate to intervene, something she said in this respect. Now I ask the Secretary of State what rights have been acquired by those who have been granted, exercised and executed by the state blessing in many parts of the country. What kind of right is this? What moral right do we claim, such a right? I think we should achieve that the abuse of the previous Penal Code, which regulated this area, should also be sanctioned because it has not been implemented. I think it's undignified to leave such things aside and invoke some other rights. The right to life, the right to human rights in our constitution — including the former — has been fairly well represented. However, it is obvious that the rights of those who have based their affairs on crime, on mass killings, on kidnappings, on the use of terrorist means are stronger than the rights of those who have been victims. Especially because it was a national decision. And none of those who were murderers were judged, but almost no one was judged. Ten thousand people have been liquidated, sanctioned in such or otherwise without judgment, without being found guilty. And it is hard to believe that all those who were thus killed were criminals, that they were officials of enemy authority, that they were not aware of anything, because there were many minors among them, or actually children. It is obvious that in all those cases, we are going to have an extraordinary turn of events, and in all those cases, this is again a systemic approach that would allow for any disclosure. Whether it's the rest of the archives or the court proceedings. It's amazing that this is how you do it. I'm just asking, what if we, too, happen to any of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the case of Perkovic, say in quotations. What will the current authorities then do? What conventions will be referred to if this case arises? I think it is much better for these things to be regulated within domestic legislation, within regulations in criminal and other areas, that we do it ourselves, rather than being forced into this by foreign countries. I think that the reference, as in the case of Croatia, will be extremely difficult to make. And it seems to me that the thought of this is placed, in a way, to regulate the area whose change we are proposing. And this area has to be regulated anyway. Especially if we are looking at these criminal jurists that we have cases where some are convicted of minor matters without any evidence being obtained. In cases where there is evidence, it hides them in all ways, destroys them, ignites them, anonymizes them and does not trigger proceedings. And in this part, I would ask for the answers of a government representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Secretary of State, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to your question on the prohibition of interference with the rights acquired or the rights acquired, I would like to explain the following. Today we are talking about the obsolescence or negligence of proposals, the negligence of a particular crime. Initially, I have already talked to a number of debaters among you about the prohibition of retroactivity, and I would now like to say a few things about these two things. When it comes to talking about obsolescence and thinking about the possible side effect. With regard to the provisions extending the time limit for the limitation of prosecution or such limitation, it shall at all be lifted. When considering a possible retroactive effect, it is necessary to attach such reflection to or may occur only in cases where a specified period for the limitation of prosecution has not yet expired. Here I run into the concept of acquired rights, when the time limit for the limitation of prosecution has expired, but the situation of acquired rights occurs when the procedure for retroactive action is no longer possible. That's what I wanted to point out. With regard to cases where the provision on a longer period for the length of prosecution has only been adopted after the prosecution of a particular offender for a particular offence has already expired, the law must not in any way allow itself to be misled into the fact that it is not an infringement of the rights acquired. I wanted so much with regard to the statute of limitations and possible reflections on the back effects when talking about this institute. So much for now. If there are any more questions, I'll explain further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Roberto Battelli would be next, then Mrs Iva Dimic, next mag. Majda Potter. Replica has Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. In this case, or in such cases, it is a matter of defending things that are related to the unloved or the crimes against human life at that time. There was a criminal code back then. The matter has not been processed, none of the persons have initiated any proceedings. Nothing happened within the justice system either. I'm curious because it's people with years of practice what you're going to do in this area. Systemic shrinkage is a problem, it was then and it is now. On the other hand, when you talk about the rights acquired, we cannot go beyond the lost rights of those who cannot enforce and reach the death certificate, not the locations where their relatives lie, and what else. I think we should look at these things in this context. And the country should certainly do something in this area. But you did not answer, ma'am, about the case, what will happen if we have a similar case like lex Perkovic in Croatia. When a request arises, perhaps a foreign country, after the extradition of a person with a name and a surname involved in such acts. Is that where the rights will be? Then there will be some different decisions and objections, because within the country we are unable not to process, not evaluate, not condemn, nothing. Such a case could happen to us because many of the things we are talking about were, in fact, later done in the territory of foreign countries. And the decisions of the authorities of the predecessor of this country were involved. And the services of this country. I am very interested in what will be the conduct of the state of Slovenia in this case. These authorities are now so enthusiastic about the rights acquired and the inviolability in this area. Everyone else is touching, mass. Those who have done so are obviously untouchable and remain untouchable.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Iva Dimic, followed by three panellists, Mr Breznik, the Government may have a word and a candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u66	Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! She encouraged me to discuss it with my colleague Meh and colleague Gorenak. When I listened to the office and remembered, I was reminded of Mr Meh's debate in 1984, thirty years ago, on an hour of history. I was then in the sixth grade, where there was a very similar debate, and finally it ended in the way which one of you went to the Verrouk to raise his hand. I think it's time we get past all this stuff. I would like to point out that Nova Slovenija has in its core programme a commitment to condemning all totalitarianism. We condemn all totalitarianism, totalitarian regimes and work for justice, truth, peace and reconciliation between Slovenians and Slovenian citizens. Slovenians were victims of totalitarian regimes: fascism, communism, Nazism. All three of them have indeed caused very much evil and material damage to the Slovenians and have left lasting negative consequences for individuals and even society as a whole. That is why in New Slovenia we are committed to allowing the country to work for historians and researchers of this time. After 30 years, it's still not all revealed and it's not written down. We call for everything that is revealed to be recorded without ideological assumptions; they are made known to the public to accept them as part of our history. I hope that after 30 years in the spirit of discovery and research, school textbooks will finally be renovated. I think we have a lot of work to do on this job. Sadly, it has been 30 years since 1984, or 22 years since the independent state, but we have not done so yet. In New Slovenia we support the Council of Europe and the European Parliament resolution and the Prague Declaration, which has already condemned Europe to all three totalitarian regimes, including communism. We support the realization of their contents in the Slovenian space as well, and as stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, every right to life begins with the moment of conception and natural death. The right to life from the beginning to the natural death Christian Democrats of New Slovenia always loudly defend, in our programme and with our work. Life must be and remain holy and must also be protected from the point of view of criminal law, because otherwise we cannot talk about some human rights. Human rights clearly include the right to life and the right to protection of human physical and mental integrity. To this we are invited, we must follow, and I really expect them to be in this area, so that we can take a step forward together, because we really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dimic. Mr. Franz Breznik is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Respectable associates, respectable government! I don't know where to start. I will return to the bill, this is about the proposed solution that we have drawn up in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Indemnity of crimes of murder – one of the worst crimes known by all criminal codes and by all standards of civilized nations. I am very sorry, at the beginning of almost half an hour I spoke and in one part of my speech I explained the complete history of criminal law from 1747 until 2014. I also spoke about the principles of international criminal law and also criminal law. Principles such as [[Incomprehensible]] Regulation on the prohibition of retroactivity and the application of a minor legal provision in the event of a change in the law before the jurisdiction of the judgment, I have spoken about this. I also spoke to Article 5 in my debate, i.e. the negligence of criminal offences under the Rome Statute. All that we had to implement in our first serious criminal code of this country, which was succeeded by Janša's government, prepared by Mr. Prof. Dr. Lovro Sturm with his team, which to this day is still valid, is a good law, that is a very good law, even though it was new, I can say completely new. All the other novels were essentially the novels of the previous republican law of SFRY, which they somehow repaired, I'll call it. During my debate, I spoke about the principles of international criminal law regarding negligence. We talked about four things: genocide, crime against humanity, war of crime and aggression. The four things most countries agree on; 114 are those that have adopted the Rome Statute. Today we have stressed what the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia have adopted during the debate. So what someone has accepted, who also manages legal practice as the Supreme Court. It's an ex-system. I don't think we can discuss this anymore, whether it was something good or something bad. He was a totalitarian regime, he had one client, he had a number of monopolies over it. This regime lived on destroying, killing and committing genocide against other thinkers, literally ordering murders for its political opponents and committing many other crimes, including harassment. Among the people who have experienced all of this are many cultures, artists, and everyone else. We have over half a million Slovenians living outside our country. The vast majority have also been seeking political asylum in other countries. This was one of the most sophisticated communist systems, according to many international historians. Extremely sophisticated, extremely sophisticated. I think Stalin himself, or Lenin before him, would be extremely proud of those today who are still defending this system here in the National Assembly. That's something unheard of that I'm listening to here today. The pure general principle of the amendment we are talking about, that is, the immaculate nature of the crime of murder, which is the only thing we want to do in a way that is normal in Western European democracies. About Germany, Austria we're talking about. You have to tell me why it's not. During the debate today, I also explained how what they show young people today, what murder means, and what human rights abuses and the persecution of criminals also mean at a high age — at 90 and even 100 years of age. I think the oldest criminal in the process in Germany is 102 years old. That's why it's important. And there's something else about the former system. I taught about this two days ago together with various historians in Zagreb, at the Museum of Modern Art in front of the full hall, they also heard about the thesis that exists. There is the thesis that most of the people who have survived the communist totalitarian regime, even countries that cannot cope with the crisis, are experiencing precisely this volume of these four monopolistic issues, which limit the normal functioning of the market economy. That's why it's so important. Four monopolies to be urgently eliminated. The first monopoly is a media monopoly, and today we find former members of the State Security Service. The second monopoly is so-called educational and cultural; here we find a number of professors of criminal law, sociologists, economists and everyone else who are today carrying educational processes in colleges. The third monopoly we have is a judicial monopoly. We have a whole series of judges of the Supreme Court, even in the Constitutional Court, even a number of state prosecutors who were part of the former communist regime, who supported theirs as a basis, as a criminal law in the totalitarian regime, was also the basis of all persecution, at least in the first part. And look, these people for this legal philosophy of persecution, i.e. mass violation of human rights in many criminal or criminal proceedings, are today part of the highest judicial authority, in the highest peaks of the judiciary. We are not talking about some of the slightly younger judges in a district or district court, we are talking about the top of the judicial branch of authority, which let's find that it doesn't work well. The next monopoly is an economic monopoly, respected colleagues and colleagues. Again, a whole series of people from the former Udbo-mafia network, which in the new country somehow remained in all its sources of money. We're talking about a whole bunch of state-owned companies. I have mentioned several times: Petrol, Telekom, Triglav Insurance, casinos, Nova Ljubljanska banka etc., which are part of this system, so they hold everything even in their hands. The theories that some of you are laughing at me here today; some of you are saying that it's not true that people are scared. See, in countries that have experienced exactly the same socialist system, in Croatia, people have risen and applauded. The whole range of people who are in Croatia today, also on the left. A whole range of war veterans, a whole range of academics, scientists note that this is precisely what makes it impossible for a normal market economy to operate, and it is precisely why today these people from the top of politics tell people that this system is not good, that the market economy and capitalism are not good and that we are going back to democratic socialism, which is being tamed by the media today and shows that it was something good, something democratic. But we discover a whole range of postwar mass graves, in them children, women; theories of a slaughter, rematchism immediately after the war. It's a systematic genocide that's been happening over every member who's been thinking differently. We have, say, Boris Pahor in Trieste, 13 followers followed him after he wrote one of his essays in 1969. 13 widowers were sent to him by Mr. Zemlaric, former head of SDV, and he informed the entire political summit of the country, including Mr. Kučan, Mr. Popit, Mr. Marinc, Mr. Ščetinc, Mr. Gojk Stanič, twice Slovenian President. All these people have been informed that Boris Pahor in Trieste is monitoring and controlling 13 Udbovs to passiveize him to remove him. A cultural genocide was about to be committed, and these people were the presidents of the country. People of God, where does this nation live? And you say it's not an intervention. These are the basics. Our society was like a house, and at the time of this crisis, when the money ran out, it began to bend left and right. You guys are talking today. We're moving on. We're building three more floors. How's the three floors? We must first remedy the foundations, then we can do all the other solutions for this country. We need to unify ourselves in the foundation. The foundation of unity is that crimes such as murder are condemned to never wear off again. And all we wanted to do was not politicize in this sense, but to argue that this is the most preventive way. This system will be the most preventive, even if it has an impact for some who have committed crimes since 1984, because those out-of-date hands will break, as the government representative said. You must be aware that in the Code of Penalties there are also 50 years overdue for the worst killings of the worst obscenities, where punishment is threatened today for 30 years, for an ageing period of 50 years. It was not just the case of former employees or those who started what was done under the former State Security Service in the late 1960s, complete in the 1970s and also until our democratic processes, until 1990. It's a lot more than that. It's what my colleague Gorenak said here today. It's a whole series of actions that can happen today, tomorrow. And someone's going to say in 2040 that they couldn't find the criminals because the case is out of date. This is a preventive measure; it is what all the serious countries that had any totalitarian regime are doing. Unfortunately, here I have to agree with my colleague Meh, and fascism has not experienced condemnation and has not experienced a judicial epilogue, nor have the former socialist or communist regimes. And this is the worst project or the biggest problem we have. Individual countries have tried to perform certain lustrations after democratic changes. All those who did it did it. They broke the strings, and that's where those monopolies fell, which I was talking about. They've fallen, ladies and gentlemen, or at least they've fallen. Anyone who is capable of something in this country may have begun to function normally. Anyone who has a normal project comes to the bank and can get a normal loan for that. Most of our loans were given only to dedicated people close to Udbo-mafia connections. This is happening to us in Slovenia and will happen. Until we break this, we will pay five times more for each project because this system will literally eat up all the money – and that is our problem. This is the problem with the development of Slovenia. The problem with negative personnel selection is the next problem that's been happening to us. The best people in our country couldn't get to the best positions. The best people we have that show up, the Slovenians, we have great athletes. Here you can see what positive human resources selection means. Someone who's bad, who's not talented, who doesn't have work habits, can't get a medal at the Olympics. We can draw this into Slovenian society, into the economy, into politics, into the judicial system and into the media. And that's what we're talking about, and today we're at the top of the line. We are at the point of condemning the system in all its criminal activities, which were not only interwar killings, attacks on Slovenian elites during the war, total killings during the war, mounted processes after the war, all reincarnations of the State Security Service – from Knoj, Ozna, SDV, KOS and somehow to the State Security Service. The worst part is that I hear that every system has to protect all its agents. Part of our policy protects agents of the former State Security Service and compares them with people working in security intelligence services today. It's also unacceptable for me to hear about it. Today's security services operate under parliamentary supervision, under a wide range of policies that are familiar with their work. However, part of the former Security Intelligence Service was under the control and sole control of the work of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists – either the republican or the state level of the former Yugoslav State. And also the fact that a Member does not separate one and another Security Intelligence Service is unacceptable in this National Assembly. But all that comes to an end, so what I'm talking about today is prevention. Let's prevent the crime from paying off. Let us prevent young people from ever doing this again, not in Europe and not here, in the Republic of Slovenia. Only this is a condition — conviction and preventive action. One of the preventions in addition to all the processes that will continue is to prevent us from entering at least what it is in the criminal code on the basis of these serious information we have heard in the last few months. It's a minimum standard. It's unacceptable for us Slovenians. Human life is untouchable, the most protected human right is also within the framework of the Constitution, not only in the Convention on Human Rights, and as such must also be enshrined in the Penal Code, so that any murder which is a deliberate act is not obsolete. Not out of date, and that's the point of change or something. The novels of the Penal Code. And I believe that you will not lecture me again in the next debate on the principles of criminal and international criminal law because we are taught. Dr. Gorenak is a professor at college, I studied law myself, so I'd like to ask that we don't do that because it's a waste of time. But we can only give arguments whether we're in favour of, or we're in favour of humanity, or we're in favour of dignity, or we're in favour of condemning it to be destroyed. And what's most important at the end is that these models, that we never repeat these philosophies, that we don't do them again. And this is the final process that will eventually come from this nation and this country. That we have the same models, not in politics, not in law, not in the economy and all others, never again. That's the last step we'll ever reach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. The Secretary of State wanted the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to Mr Tank's debate, I would like to provide another explanation on his question, what if we had a lex Perkovic and a request from the Member State of the European Union for surrender. I would like to say here that we should examine whether there are grounds for surrender. The legal order of the European Union, all documents and law on cooperation in criminal matters are therefore in force. So much for Mr. Tank. With regard to Mr Breznik's last debate, however, I would add that, under Article 95 of the Penal Code, the acts for which international treaties so provide should not be obsolete. I have in mind genocide, crimes against humanity, war of crime, aggression, and the protection of such acts. Even under the existing law, all such offences are not obsolete, nor are they obsolete under the previous Penal Code. Once again, I would like to point out that the opinion of the Government does not stem from the defence of the previous system, but from the defence or defence of the generally accepted principles of criminal law. The government has also made this clear, and I have pointed out today that neglect of murder in the future is not an issue of professional concern. The objective seems perfectly legitimate and will examine all these aspects and this proposal in the wake of the next amendment to the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I thank the Secretary of State for the explanations she gave. I'll be really happy if you re-enact the penal code and if that's included. Know that I will surely remind you when the debate is that you have promised this in some way. But I'd ask you one more answer. I don't know if that's even possible. Maybe there'll be a time-sharing, and there'll be a possible case. What you said to Mr Tank, what will be hypothetical about a Slovenian lex Perkovic, I did not understand you. At the time, will Slovenia plead that the crimes of killings in Slovenia are already obsolete and therefore there is no extradition, is it possible? Or it will be because we are part of the European Union and given that these rules, as for Croatia, also apply in Slovenia. In short, this part of the answer, if possible, at least when sharing time. After all, for quite a while we have been proposing some things that are, in some ways, self-conceived. On the other hand, the things we want to deal with – now the acorns, economic laws, bankruptcy laws, justice. Let me remind you of one thing. Not a single bill has been supported by the coalition so far. Not one. This shows that a coalition of some kind of ideological struggle is going on and tries to show that the opposition is never right. That's not good! When we last accepted the so-called real estate tax, we worked very hard in the opposition to prove to you that the law is harmful, that it is potentially unconstitutional, etc. We left this hall in a state of infirmity and obstructed it. Mr. Meh said the mob is leaving the hall. Today, however, the coalition itself realizes that something was seriously wrong. What do I mean by that? What I'm saying is that it's not good for you to think of yourself as all-powerful, that you think you're all-saved, that you think you're the ones who know everything in this world. That's not true. No one in this world knows everything, and we all learn. But as for today's topic, our basic purpose, given that legislation cannot be put back into force, was to try to move forward, a step further in such important matters as our relationship with our past history. We wanted to warn and still point out the things that happened at the time and the need for such people to be judged, as in Germany’s old men — 95 or 100 years old. If they're guilty of a crime, they're tried and nothing else. Unfortunately, the debate has moved on to a field of ideology that we do not want. The debate was opened by the coalition members in this direction when the views of the groups were presented. And that's not good. We would do well to support this law before us at this stage and to try to make improvements to the second reading or further procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Just in explanation, Dr. Gorenak, you as a proponent or Government can speak at any time; even now, if you wish, of course, within the remaining time available. If not, I find that, after all the final debaters you have received the floor, the time for discussion has not yet passed. That is why there is a possibility of sharing time and opening up the possibility of re-enlisting to the debate. Mr Gorenak has been informed as a debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u74	Too bad I won't get an answer. I mean, you can tell me that in front of your eyes. It's okay. I used to try to end up at that point when I said it wasn't good for us to go ideologically. And once again, I think that's true. The question has to be asked, and I will therefore repeat this, even for the public, what is wrong with this country. If this country had the same attitude toward all the dead, we would be witnesses today to the well - arranged graves of those on the one hand and those on the other. It's not like that. If this country has the same attitude towards the dead through legislation or criminals and so on, then Slovenia would not be where it is, in terms of its relation to these issues. He's dead, and he ended up shot at the left or right or something. And he ended up in Dachau, Auschwitz, Rab, Urh, Francolov, the Hudi Cave, or the ditch of Barbara. We still have a huge number of these trenches in Slovenia. And it would be good if the policy, the state, the government, Parliament were to take the first steps in this direction. Of course, we'll have to get rid of all history. The prejudices of the past, the prejudices that have been instilled in our heads, in particular those that we are slightly older, which we have visited in the previous country, will need to be shaken. Well, there's not much better in this country that we're clear, at least not from the point of view of history. It's gonna have to be broken, it's gonna have to stop. As we have heard in this debate today, we support the investigation of murders, we condemn criminals, we condemn slaves, planners and so on; but when a practical step has to be taken – that is, when it comes to pressing a button that would have some consequences in the form of someone coming before a court, in the form of a state helping someone find the remains – and then this hand on the political left shakes. It shakes to the point where it doesn't hit the key or hit just one key, it's "against". You know, we have to change these things, we have to fix these things. Our proposal today, which is still on the table, is a suggestion that the crime of murder is never obsolete. Never! And I'm not dealing with the question of whether this will apply to those murderers of the State Security Service or not. Probably not, so it is evident from the opinion of the Government and some arguments also speak for it. But that's irrelevant. The more important question is whether we are able to continue to arrange things in a similar way to those in Austria, as they have in Germany, as they do in Finland, or elsewhere. We will take this step, I am sure of it, most likely without some of us older Members, it will be done by a younger generation if this generation is unable to do so. Despite the debates and your announcements – in particular the coalition MPs – I call on you to turn on the green light when we vote on this law tomorrow. Nothing's gonna happen, the country won't fail, we won't wake anyone dead, and we won't bring anyone to justice because of your decision. We will have a month of time to think carefully about the matter, perhaps to supplement the law, or to drink it, or the ministry will entrap it into the law it is preparing. Anyway, that's not relevant at all. The important thing is to accept it. Rejecting the vote tomorrow will be a bad sign and a bad way to move the coalition forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u75	The government can no longer respond to time-sharing so that they can agree later. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Thursday, 6 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 3. In the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, it's on a proposal for a law on the publicity of the acquisition of functionaries in the first defense. The draft law was tabled by a group of 23 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. There's a law ahead of us that we can't call an ideological law. I hope you don't call it that. All those who were in Parliament 2006/2007 will probably remember that we had a similar solution in the procedure, and the authors were different back then. The author of such solutions was Dr. Virant. So today, I would expect at least the National Gazette to support this or explain why it is or why it is. whether she will eventually make a mortal salad and will not support it, which their president supported years ago. It's a public property law for officials. This is a matter that has long been problematic in this country, which has long been the subject of speculation, which has long been the subject of such or other commissions – in particular the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which is currently dealing with it – the media and everything else. The solution that we offer is, in fact, extremely simple. If and if we make such a system that the assets of all officials are publicly published on the Internet, this will be evidence, guarantee and more that we will not have irregularities in this area or that irregularities will be reduced. Public access to this information is the one that will allow every journalist who will allow every neighbor, acquaintance, friend who knows us to access it. And these will be our best controllers, better than any anti-corruption commission or anyone else. The public is the one who needs to know. Members of the SDS have already made public on the Internet all information on their movable and immovable property years ago. We also invited all the other parties – as far as I know and as far as I can remember, there was no response. What is the essence of our proposal for a law? I particularly stress, ladies and gentlemen on the left, that we will not hear any debate in the sense that we are shutting it down because it is not. In our proposal, the anti-corruption commission would take away the possibility of controlling the assets of officials and transfer them to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is one that we cannot automatically place in one of the branches of government. Or one of the branches of power. The Court of Auditors is the one who is completely over state money and still be over officials' assets. As far as I can remember, the Court of Auditors has also agreed to this. Said they didn't need new personnel to do that. They had no problem with such a solution. The transfer of jurisdiction to the Court of Auditors is our proposal. This does not mean that we are abolishing the Commission to prevent corruption, since it has all its other tasks prescribed by law. Notwithstanding the fact that we would have wanted a different Commission to prevent corruption, this is not a topic today. Our topic today is to transfer assets, control over the assets of officials from the Commission to prevent corruption under the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors. In one way or another, the anti-corruption commission is brought together by a society of people of different educational backgrounds. Whatever any of us think of it, but let's look at the Commission's summit; there are three sociologists who have little in common with accounting, money and everyone else in their knowledge. The Court of Auditors is the one who collects staff in a way that it can control cash flows in this country. Therefore, there is also adequate knowledge to control such assets. However, if we include our proposal to publish our data and data publicly on the Court's website, this is even greater and better control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. State Secretary Mag. Renata Zatler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government has considered and adopted an opinion on the proposal of the Law on the Public Properties of Officials submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members. The proposal provides that the power to exercise control over the assets of the debtors and to provide the public with information on the property status of the officials from the Commission for the prevention of corruption, which is responsible in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, shall be transferred to the Court of Auditors. In addition to the delegation of powers to control the assets of officials as provided for by the law, the proposal for a law among debtors includes former officials as long as they receive remuneration in accordance with the law; including former Presidents of the Republic who enjoy material rights after the end of their term of office — except for the right to a pension. The Government supports the transparency and publicity of the assets of officials and certain solutions that are contained in the proposal, which would further enhance transparency in the control of the assets of the debtors in terms of prevention and appropriate sanctioning in cases of detected acts of corruption in the management of public funds; it would also make sense to supplement the provisions in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption as a system law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption. However, despite the Government's support for greater transparency, the proposal for this solution given in the initiative does not support it. The key reasons why the Government does not support this are that the Government notes that most of the legal solutions outlined in the proposal already contain the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. With regard to the transfer of powers to control the assets of the debtors under the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act from the Commission to the Court of Auditors, the Government considers that this transfer would otherwise be possible, but the current regime has proved to be effective and appropriate, as assessed by the European and international institutions. With regard to the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors, there may be additional jurisdiction, i.e. the control of the assets of the debtors under the proposal of the law is somewhat controversial, which means the control of personal resources, not public funds. This would indeed change the purpose and mission of such an important independent body as the Court of Auditors, which is why the definition of its position and competence is also a constitutional category. It should be stressed that European and international institutions, such as the OECD, GRECO, including Transparency International, also assess the legislative framework for the regulation of integrity and the prevention of corruption in Slovenia as appropriate and also support the Commission's efforts and actions to prevent corruption with regard to the implementation of the provisions of the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act. The 2012 reports of those institutions, as well as their recommendations, contain proposals to strengthen the powers and tasks of the Commission to prevent corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! Current crisis situations require certain priorities in the adoption of legislation in areas relevant to addressing the acute situation, among which are the most important areas of public finances and the economy. Of course, we must not neglect the areas of the rule of law and the fight against corruption, especially in the light of a greater degree of transparency – in which things are slowly changing, but they are changing for the better. However, the problem must be addressed in a sound, professional, systematic and, above all, honest manner. We believe the good purpose of the bill's proponents, but we have some concerns in the Slovenian People's Party's Group about the proposed solutions and the appropriateness of their submission right now. Nevertheless, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration, since it strengthens transparency in the area of the wealth situation of officials. So in an area that we and our media have always had a topic, which has been a highlight of a good year ago with the Commission's report on the anti-corruption situation of political party presidents, which has led to the fall of the right-centre government, part of which was also the Slovenian People's Party, and the emplacement of the current government of Alenka Bratušek. In spring 2010, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption was adopted in the National Assembly, which laid down, inter alia, the obligation for officials to report information on property status and also the public record of such data. However, the law granted the Commission the power to prevent corruption to implement that law, i.e. to control the assets of officials. In fact, the proposed law on the public property of officials builds on the regulation provided for in the above-mentioned law, as it confers upon the Court of Auditors the obligation to report the data of officials and the public information on the property status of officials. The Court of Auditors would thus be able to inspect the overall financial and real operation of the officials and, in its findings, inform the body responsible for the selection or appointment of the official and the competent authorities which could act on this basis within their respective competences. The proposed law also includes former officials as long as they are entitled to compensation or as long as they enjoy material rights after the end of their term of office. The latter also applies to former Presidents of the Republic. An innovative is also the provision of Article 8(2), which provides for a minimum wage reduction of 10 % per month for an official who does not submit property and income data within the time limit set. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the motioners' statements that monitoring of officials' assets must be public and transparent, as this is the only way to strengthen confidence in them and in the work of officials. Only an increase in the property situation without an explanation can constitute an indication of corruption and therefore strengthen the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors in our opinion on the ground. The question is, however, whether the supervision of the body – which revises the use of public funds over the private resources of the debtors, in this case the current and former officials – is still within the constitutional and legal competences of that body. The Commission's further role in preventing corruption is also unclear, as the possible adoption of such a law would mean nothing less than its abolition. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are more inclined to increase the Commission's role and competence to prevent corruption and to lay down clear rules for playing against other investigative bodies, as this would, in our opinion, remove doubts about the bias of this body or its inquisitorial mode of action, which we are repeatedly reminded of because of personal involvement or involvement. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposed Law on the Public Properties of Officials is suitable for further consideration, where certain dilemmas can still be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, you too have a nice greeting! In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we have examined the proposed law relating to the publicity of the assets of both officials and other persons who are not; they carry out extremely important tasks from a national point of view, such as notaries, directors, members of management bodies, public agencies, institutions, funds. At first glance, this must be acknowledged, the proposed solutions are more than welcome, even at a time when public pressure is also reported almost daily on the suspicions of corruption and clienteleism. However, the DeSUS Group will not support the proposed law, not for the purpose and purpose of which, at least so stated, the proposaler would pursue by this law. Preventing corruption, public data, property, transparency, strengthening confidence in public functions in the DeSUS Group we certainly support that there will be no doubt. We will not support the law for the following reasons. The whole text is in many places unconsistency, insufficiently defined, solutions are not clear. We estimate that there is a high probability that the proposed solutions are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in a work that carries on the tasks of supervision from the Commission to prevent corruption to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is an independent state body whose tasks are already defined in the Constitution. There is no doubt that it is not his audit competence to revise private funds, but rather his task to keep an eye on the use of public funds. As a third reason to disagree with the proposal on our part is the current regulation of public property of officials. We have this area regulated, we have an independent and independent commission set up – the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which is responsible for monitoring. We have a certain examination procedure. The duties of individual officials with regard to the declaration of property and gifts are determined, and the procedure of the authorities is also defined in the event of suspected infringements. We do not deny that the law in force could be improved yet, but we estimate that it is good and that the work of the authorities in this area has been effective, since we can monitor part of the work of these bodies through the media – and that is not enough. Last but not least, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we cannot shake the feeling that this proposal is aimed only at one goal, not only to reset, but to abolish the anti-corruption commission or to deprive it of part of the powers relating to the supervision of the assets of the officials. This is one of the many attempts of the proposer. We all know that under the leadership of Janez Janša, the government sought to disband this commission at the time it was led by Mr Kos. That is why she has already tried to align her functioning and also by adopting a law which was later subject to the repeal of certain provisions by the Constitutional Court. In the previous mandate, in the autumn of 2009 and in the spring of 2010, we have considered practically the same text of the bill that we now have before us. On both occasions, a negative attitude was adopted on our part. Therefore, we cannot go beyond the question of whether all this continued efforts to put an end to the anti-corruption commission essentially means that this Commission is working well, professionally and independently and is therefore the target of attacks by those to whom this Commission represents a thorn in the heel. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will continue to advocate for a decisive fight against corruption, transparency and the strengthening of integrity. Even though the drafter of this law declares that one and only aim is to combat corruption and clientism, we believe that there is a completely different purpose under this. On the basis of this and our final assessment that the proposal does not contribute to the fight against corruption, we will vote unitedly against the decision on the appropriateness of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! "Corruption destroys the confidence of citizens in democratic institutions and the rule of law, damages the European economy and consumes the necessary tax revenues," is a statement by the European Commissioner for Home Affairs, who in one sentence expresses the depth of the consequences of this increasingly widespread phenomenon in all countries, including the Member States of the European Union. The issue of corruption and the effective fight against it is an area where the highest authorities of the European Union are also actively involved. In its recent first report on corruption in Central and Eastern Europe, the European Commission highlights the main trends in corruption. It highlighted the lack of control mechanisms to verify procedures in the public authorities of many Member States, particularly at local level, and there are also frequent conflicts of interest. In the area of prosecution and punishment, some countries have failed, as there are few legal proceedings completed and, if the proceedings have already taken place, these are too long, in particular too long of the investigation procedures. The report further notes that the areas of risk in the Member States are generally higher at regional and local level and that corruption is more exposed to spatial development, construction and health. Weaknesses are also noticeable in the control of state-owned enterprises. A special chapter is intended for public procurement, which consumes approximately one fifth of the European Union’s gross social product annually for the purchase of goods and services. In view of the exposure to corruption, the report calls for stricter standards of integrity in this area. All these warnings from the European Commission will need to be very careful, as they are relevant to our place, which we have repeatedly publicly warned the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia in the past. We have repeatedly pointed out shortcomings in the control of state-owned enterprises and have also proposed appropriate solutions. In this report, the European Commission is adopting some proposals to help reduce systemic corruption. One of the proposals contained in this report is the imposition of dissuasive penalties for the election and appointment of an official if they violate the requirements for the declaration of assets and conflicts of interest and the adoption of additional measures to strengthen the standards of responsibility of elected officials. This is the area covered by the proposal for a law on the public property of officials, as it imposes substantive sanctions on officials who violate the legal provisions concerning the obligation to report information on their assets in a way that reduces their salaries by 10% per month for each month of the delay. The proposal for a law extends the power to control the assets of officials from the Commission to prevent corruption to the Court of Auditors. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia have no doubts about the proposed solution, as similar institutional control over the assets of officials is also regulated in many other countries, although we have no doubts as to the appropriateness of exercising control over the assets of officials by the now competent Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. We stress, however, that the effective fight against corruption requires, in addition to an appropriate legislative and institutional framework, the consistent and effective implementation of the legislation adopted. More than once, and in various areas, we find that in Slovenia there is not as much problem with the legislative framework as it is with the implementation of legislation in practice. We are also reminded of this fact by the European Commission, which highlights the lack of political will to fight corruption. Legislative solutions in terms of combating corruption should be adopted unanimously in the National Assembly, by consensus. The proposal of the Law on the Publicity of Officials improves the legislative framework in the field of control over the property of officials, so Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members and others present! The proposal for a law on public property of officials was put into the legislative procedure by the SDS Group and, at first glance, it could be said that this is a suitable proposal which should be supported. In Positive Slovenia, we certainly support every step towards greater transparency and, above all, the intentions of a more effective fight against corruption. We fully agree with that objective and the purpose of the proposalr. We are also committed to controlling the assets of the debtors, as this is one of the basic conditions for transparency and confidence in public functions. We also agree that monitoring and control of property promotes and strengthens transparency in public administration processes and procedures in the performance of public functions and in the performance of public affairs. Everything mentioned and said seems to us to be very well-known, since in this case it is a text copied by the drafters from the Commission's anti-corruption website, even forgetting the rule of quoting. So we could say it's a little plagiarism. The text is written on their side for a reason, since the Commission has been in control of the assets of officials since its establishment. And not only the officials, because they also control the property, the property status of the non-professional mayors, officials in position, business persons, managers, persons responsible for public procurement, and some others. We cannot agree with the proposalers' statement that the adoption of this law is inevitable – due to the responsible policy and transparency of the functioning of officials and officials and the responsibility of citizens and citizens in times of economic crisis. And that's for one reason, because we already have an authority to keep watch over officials' assets. This body is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. We've talked a lot about her results, some more controversially, others less. And we probably know that in this hall, because we also had to report our own assets at the time of our appearance. However, any change must be reported now. We fear that the essence of the SDS proposal is not, therefore, that the public will be exposed to the assets of officials and thus prevent any corruption risk, but that the essence may be elsewhere. It is envisaged that the Commission should withdraw part of its powers under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and be transferred to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. We don't know why. We do not support such a transfer in the Group of the Positive Slovenia. Only the Commission's name tells us what its main mission is – to prevent corruption. Since supervision of the assets of officials is one of the basic conditions of transparency and confidence in public functions and constitutes an integral part of the integrity of the public sector, we believe that this competence must remain with the Commission. However, consideration should certainly be given to the possibilities of improving individual provisions, including with regard to asset control. Since the Commission Senate has already made recommendations on the amendment of the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption at the time of its resignation, and the coalition partners have also committed themselves to the amendment of the law in the Coalition Treaty, we propose that the individual solutions contained in the SDS proposal, which represent improvements in this area, be examined in the context of the preparation of the new law. However, the power to exercise control should remain with the Commission in order to prevent corruption. We also agree that the effectiveness of the checks carried out by the Commission is not the best; however, we will not resolve this by transferring it to the Court of Auditors. We are aware that the SDS has repeatedly expressed its opposition to the Commission. She was also perceived as being biased, even suggested that she be abolished and that she be deprived of one of the important powers. In the end, if the Commission were to be deprived of its powers, it is likely that its abolition would be achieved, as they would virtually no longer be needed. And the proposal can also go this way. As stated in Positive Slovenia, we will not support the conclusion that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. In doing so, we would take advantage of the opportunity to call on the Commission to prevent corruption to fulfil its duty under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption as soon as possible and to publish on its website information relating to the income and property of officials, as it has not yet fulfilled its duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u88	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The mandatory conduct of officials and officials to report information on their assets and the disclosure of information on the assets of officials is governed by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which also regulates the obligation to report changes to the assets. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not explicitly refer to anti-corruption activities, but the requirement to prevent corruption stems from the rule of law. Corruption threatens the rule of law and undermines people's trust in key state institutions, reduces political stability and social peace. The urgency of the mandatory conduct, reporting of information on the assets of officials also dictates the recently published information on the borders of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Omerzel, and the former Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Stepišnik, in the course of his duties as Minister. Ratified international agreements do not require specific organisations in the field of anti-corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. The central operator of the anti-corruption strategy is the executive branch of the authorities headed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Repressive measures against corruption are laid down in the Penal Code. Supervision of the assets of the debtors is one of the basic conditions of transparency and confidence in public functions and therefore constitutes an integral part of the integrity of the public sector. Monitoring and control of property promotes and strengthens transparency in public administration processes and procedures, in the performance of public functions and in the management of public affairs. The adoption of the Law on public property of officials, proposed by Members and Members of Parliament with the first-signed Jozet Tank, is urgently needed because of the responsible policy and transparency of the functioning of officials and officials and the accountability of citizens and citizens in times of economic crisis; and also by restoring the confidence of citizens and citizens in politics. The aim of the bill is to ensure transparency in the functioning of public officials and preventive action in the field of corruption and clientism, and to follow the principle of power-sharing, the principle of transparency and openness. The proposed changes regarding the supervision of the assets of officials also point to the fact that the National Assembly did not exercise control over the assets of the three members of the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption. It should be pointed out that no supervision of the assets of the members of the Senate has been exercised throughout the time that the Senate has been appointed. The responsibility that this monitoring has not been carried out or has not yet been completed lies primarily with the current coalition. In the proposal for a new law, we regulate the obligation to report information to officials and officials and to the public on the property status of officials. The provisions of the law applicable to officials shall also apply to former Presidents of the Republic who enjoy material rights after the end of their term of office, with the exception of the right to a pension, and to officials who have ceased their functions, who shall receive compensation in accordance with the law. The provisions of the law shall also apply mutatis mutandis to directors and members of collective management bodies, public agencies, public funds, public institutions, public economic institutions and other persons of public law who are indirect users of the national budget or the local community budget, notaries and the President of the compulsory membership chambers. Those directors and members of the collective management bodies of these entities shall not be subject to the provisions of the proposed law if their revenue does not exceed EUR 2 million in the previous financial year. The law will also apply mutatis mutandis to the Directors-General, the Secretary-General of the ministries, the heads of the bodies of the ministries, the heads of government services, the heads of administrative units, the directors or secretaries of the municipalities, and the persons appointed by the contracting authorities to the expert commission for the award of the contract and who decide, confirm and propose the content of the tender documents or other actions in the context of the procurement procedure. With the proposed amendment, officials, professionals and non-professionals would report information on their assets to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and the officials of the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly. The deadlines for the reporting of officials on their assets shall also be changed, i.e. the official must report to the Court of Auditors immediately and at the latest within one month of the occurrence and termination of his functions. However, during the term of his term of office, he is obliged to report the assets each year, no later than 31 March; except in the year when he first reports the information on his assets. However, at the request of the Court of Auditors, the official should send information on his assets two years after the end of his duties. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that the transfer of tasks and powers related to the control of the assets of officials from the Commission to prevent corruption to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is necessary and reasonable, also in view of the fact that the Commission has repeatedly abused its supervisory function for political purposes and not for the purpose of preventing corruption risks so far. This is also due to the recent findings that the Commission has violated both the Constitution and the Systemic Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in order to prevent corruption in the control of the property situation of the Presidents of Parliament's parties, which was also informed by one of the supervised persons by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. It follows from these findings that the members of the Commission's Senate acted politically and used double criteria in their work. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the proposal for a law, as the proposed solutions ensure transparency in the functioning of public officials and preventive action in the area of corruption and clientism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The proposal for a law on the public property of officials in Article 1 states as follows: This law regulates the obligation to report data to officials and officials, hereinafter referred to as ‘officers’, and the public record of the assets of officials. Here I ask the question: What does this law predict as to the new or so far unregulated, which should be regulated by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Whoever among us is performing a public function is aware of the provisions on the obligation to report information on property status. It therefore raises a legitimate question why the applicants of this law are already trying to regulate things in another way in a way that cannot conceal the fact that it is a matter of accounting with an institution, that it was a former anti-corruption commission or that it is now for the Commission to prevent corruption. It is difficult to get rid of this feeling, given that a law like this before us was introduced in September 2009. After that year, the law I was talking about was passed – the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. What should be the purpose of this marriage? Ensuring transparency in the functioning of public officials and preventive action in the field of corruption and clientism. It should also apply the principle of power sharing, the principle of transparency and openness. The third task, which is a novelty in this case, is related to the experience of identifying the assets of the three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission Senate. However well-intentioned we would look at this law, it cannot be overlooked that the bill is placed at a time after the anti-corruption commission has delivered an opinion on the assets of the presidents of political parties. Let me draw your attention to some other facts. The Government does not support the proposal, although it notes that some of the solutions that would otherwise enhance transparency in the control of the assets of the debtors in terms of prevention and appropriate sanctioning in cases where corruption has been detected in the management of public funds. At the same time, however, the government points out that this can best be done by supplementing the provisions of the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act as a system law. This is also related to the opinion of European and international institutions, such as the OECD and GRECO, as well as Transparency International, which believe that the legislative framework for regulating integrity and preventing corruption in Slovenia is appropriate. They also support the Commission's efforts and activities to prevent corruption with regard to the implementation of the provisions of this Act. The 2012 reports of those institutions, as well as their recommendations, contain proposals to strengthen the powers and tasks of the Commission to prevent corruption. But let me draw your attention to some details that are not even so insignificant. Parliamentary parties or representatives of parliamentary parties were invited to talk with the members of the GRECO Group. The fact is that all parliamentary parties have not responded to this invitation. If we are talking about transparency, then it would also be interesting to ask — and even more interesting — how we treat Members and Members as holders of public functions when we are approached by the media with questions about our property situation. It would be interesting to see which party does not answer these questions as a rule. Why am I warning you this? Since at a time when we are living, when corruption is recognised as a central problem not only of Slovenian society but also of European society, it is necessary not only to speak but also to act in a way that strengthens this guarantee of greater transparency. We should also ask ourselves, who has the most problems proving their origin. Each party is given the opportunity to do something about it in its own internal acts. And we are doing this, in our statutes, we have specific provisions on what the candidate for the function is obliged to do, that integrity is maintained and that corruption is prevented at different levels of public officials. It might also be interesting to note whether it is also important to note which of the parliamentary parties declares contacts with registered lobbyists and those who do not appear to be registered lobbyists, but come to the parliamentary groups with proposals which could also be part of the legislative procedure. In particular, I stress that many things can be done at the level of each opening of a field of danger to corruption. And now let us go back to what was also in the proposed law – 19 articles in total – that is why the Group of Social Democrats of this proposal cannot support the law. Surely one of the reasons or the first reason is that we understand the application of this bill as one of the attempts to deal with the anti-corruption commission. We have no problems in the Group of Social Democrats. Even before the Senate's resignation, we invited the anti-corruption commission's representatives to the parliamentary group to review all the fifteen points they are proposing to improve the situation in the country. Secondly, we believe that by such a law as the Slovenian Democratic Party has drawn up, we will not contribute in any way to the detection and prosecution of corruption. Thirdly, we believe that the solutions provided by this law are of such a nature that they are not in conformity with the legislation in force. In this part, I refer to the part which transfers powers to the Court of Auditors. Let me repeat after those of you who have already warned. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been given additional tasks by the applicant, would have the powers conferred on it as the highest audit authority with the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure in the Republic of Slovenia; it would now have added an area ranging from a public field to a private field. Article 20 of the Law tells us that the Court of Auditors is revising the operation of users of public funds. It follows from this that the Court of Auditors in the legal system as we have it does not have any similar function as the motions for this law are intended to give to the Court of Auditors. Therefore, we cannot accept such a solution as acceptable. We believe that this bill is one of those bill proposals, which follows the general public opinion that Slovenian society is most at risk of corruption; the solutions that this law brings do not in any way suggest an improvement in the situation. For if it really is a desire to put an end to corruption, why then with fire and sword over all those who speak of the possibilities or identified signs of corruption or unexplained origins of property. It would be good to start with yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We also have the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List, mag. Katarina Hochevar will introduce him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings from my side too! Trust in the rule of law and its institutions is also built on confidence in those responsible for leading the country and deciding on public matters – that is, on public officials. Where an individual is entrusted with the responsibility to manage or decide on public common matters of all citizens and citizens, the public shall also have the right to information on their personal property. This is already possible. However, there is always an opportunity or a place to follow the improvement of matters. As of today, all officials must report their assets at the time of their function and report changes. This is also evidence of a resounding report on the property situation of the Presidents of Parliament. The problem in the practice of Slovenian political space is not that this data would not be available right now. The problem is, if the officials don't know, can't or won't explain where the assets come from. Control over public officials' assets in the form we know of is a mechanism aimed at reducing corruption risks in the exercise of public authority or in the performance of public functions. It is aimed at preventing corruption and, as a result, at promoting the integrity and confidence of the public in public officials and their work. These are all the content of the Commission's work to prevent corruption; and certainly not in the Court of Auditors' work. The Court of Auditors is not established for this purpose and its mission is of a completely different nature; namely, it is the highest authority for the control of all public expenditure and has an independent position under the Constitution. Since the Commission has a similar independent position to prevent corruption, we see no reason in the National Gazette why it would be necessary to transfer the powers to the Court of Auditors to register and control the assets of officials. The proposed law would also greatly assess the importance and role of the Commission in preventing corruption. On the other hand, certain tasks that simply do not belong to the Court of Auditors would be transferred to the Court of Auditors. The current systemic solution is transformed into a non-systemic solution, and here is the main reason why we do not favour this proposal in the Civil Gazette. The tasks to be received by the Court of Auditors from the Anti-Corruption Commission, neither by the Constitution nor by the Court of Auditors Act, shall fall within the audit jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors. Article 150 of the Constitution specifies that the Court of Auditors is responsible for controlling public and private resources. Article 150 of the Constitution states: The Court of Auditors is the highest authority for the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure. It is understandable that some of the work and character of the commission are not at heart. However, the leadership of the anti-corruption commission has already pointed out that certain corrections are needed in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. In particular, the KPK pointed out that there was a lack of legislation in force that did not ensure the termination of the function under the law on the grounds of a legal conviction in such a way as to allow the exercise of a public function to be revoked. In doing so, we stress that we are close to some of the solutions that have been put into law by the applicants. Here I am thinking mainly of public publication – not only on request, but that this is published, say, on the Internet, the property of public officials and in larger or larger ones. in a broader set of data to be reported by the official. We therefore propose to the Government that these solutions be examined and incorporated into the new Systemic Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, where they belong or belong. This novel is planned by the government to be submitted to the National Assembly by the end of 2014. We also support the implementation of all 15 Commission recommendations to prevent corruption as soon as possible. For the reasons I have stated, we will not turn on the green light in this law in the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Since the list of Members and Members declared has been slightly amended, I will read the order of several debaters. The first will be the representative of the proposer, i.e. Dr Vinko Gorenak, followed by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, then Mr Robert Hrvat, Mr Ivan Hršak and after him mag. Ivan Vogrin. The first one has the word Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I have a question for Mrs. Hotchevar and the Secretary of State. Tell me what has changed from 2006 to today. You listed, Secretary of State, from the OECD, and I don't know how everyone agrees with the KPK. You even told me a theory, and later I had the feeling that I was listening to a presentation of a seminar assignment that I was in college for a moment, but you know. But you tell me, what happened from 2006 to today? Indeed, we had the same proposal on the table in 2006. Transfer of control over assets from the Commission to prevent corruption to the Court of Auditors. Everything has been coordinated, everything has been prepared, even the budget has been adjusted, and now I hear a completely different theory from you. What happened from then on until today? At the time it was possible to do so, the author was Dr. Virant, and now he is the author of SDS. And that's the only difference, because the content is the same. The contents, I repeat, are the same. So what happened? I'll repeat that ten times if I have to until you explain it to me. What has happened from then on until today that you no longer defend it? Are they the reason for the plane ticket? Tell me. If that's what this is, tell me, and at least we'll know what a joke is. Secretary of State, you say you support good solutions, etc. The same goes for Mrs. Hotchevarova. Yeah, that's all true, but there's more to be done. The "yes" has to be voted if we want to come up with something. As regards the representative of Positive Slovenia, Mr Kavticnik. Here, viewers do not see this, but not one person has been here all day, from Positive Slovenia, except for the presentation of views. That's why I can talk to empty benches over there, because I can't talk to others.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u95	Dr. Gorenak, this is a member of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u96	Yes, by duty. I agree. They copied, says Mr Kavtičnik, from the KPK website. That's not true. Then KPK copied it from us or Dr. Virant. Then that would be more accurate. Essential — withdrawal of the authority of the KPK. It is not a matter of depriving the PKK, it is a matter of another state authority doing so, and this is the Court of Auditors. The SDS is proposing termination. I've told you a hundred times, I've said twice in the opening act that it's not about quitting. But as parrots, still, Mr Kavtičnik says we are proposing an end. That's not true! The same was said by the representative of DeSUS, Mr Jurša, to abolish the KPK. Who says that? Where does that say in the article? None. It's only in the brain of some, as it appears. Mrs. Potts is out. [[advertising from the hall]] She didn't go; I'm glad you're here. "It's a committee hearing." It's not a matter of committee. Why would it be a committee hearing? One of the work done today by this commission may be done by the Court of Auditors tomorrow. And it's nothing else. Why in the time after the KPK report? Of course, it's not a good time; but in 2011 it was, and you also rejected the matter, and you were in this House, if I know anything, and there was the same proposal on the table. It wasn't a good time at the time, and now it's not. Will it be tomorrow? He won't. SDS, you're saying he's having trouble answering questions about property. The SDS is the only party in Parliament, the only one who has published on the Internet many years ago all the assets of all its Members. Everything. In the media, however, we noticed the report and the dismay that Mrs Irgle had forgotten to report two shares of Fructal, which she did not even know she had because the old mother had left them. That was the news of the day that we were on the clear side. Which one of you guys who posted this on the Internet? None. This means that we do not have a problem with publishing Members' assets, nor do we have an explanation. I've never even seen any journalists attack in the hallway if they asked him about the property. Isn't that right, Mrs. Potter? So who's got the most problems? You're saying there's no problem with you. What about Mr. Thaler? And two and a half years in prison every week. It's nothing. Not to say, I can't point to the things and the anomalies that you started and you opened them up, or I wouldn't even say that. Why would I talk about Thaler if we were talking about something else? But you are the principles and you point to this side with your finger. The Court of Auditors is not a real institution. Why not? If we give her that authority under the law, the real institution will; just as we have done from customs and tax administration, we have given them other powers and things are supposed to work. No problem. The Court of Auditors has already stated in 2007 that it is ready and able to carry out this task. Well, that's not the point. As far as the KPK is concerned, however, there is something else to be said. As far as KPK is concerned, this is simply the situation, and the public needs to know. You know that, but you don't want to hear that the KPK is not in Europe. I repeat, there are no anti-corruption committees in Europe. In Europe, we know four ways and we know the four forms of work that the KPK has been. The first group of countries is that group of countries that have consultative bodies in government, non-professional consultative bodies that meet several times a year and advise the government on policy in this area. The second group of countries is one that has groups of officials within the judiciary or the internal ministry and is also involved in preventing corruption and is system-wide in advising the governments of these countries. The third group of countries is the one that has nothing. These are mainly Scandinavian countries, including Denmark. And look at the fraction, there's the least corruption in international indices. Slovenia was in 2004 when we set up this commission, by all indices in a better state than today. So the reason why we have a higher level of corruption is that we have a KPK, or what? Or is the KPK not working, or how? Similar institutions such as our KPK also have Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia, Macedonia and Latvia. No one has such institutions from the point of view of such powers, and you know that very well, Secretary of State. I do not object to the implementation of the tasks the KPK has under law. There's no problem with that. Ladies and gentlemen, what will you do if the Constitutional Court repeals certain provisions of the system law in this area? What if those articles on the basis of which they wrote that famous report on April 8th last year were accidentally repealed? What if that happens? I don't know if anyone thought of that. That could happen. And then some of you — especially those who changed the government at the time — will come under another roof, and you will probably be able to look down at us first. There'll be no other way. There's something we need to know. This committee is a year away – and I will talk about both of you without talking about our party's president. This Commission has for a year prevented access to documentation. No, Mr Jankovic, neither Janša could deal with the documentation on which they wrote it. And a year after the court decided to do so, gentlemen gave this documentation. And what can you figure out now? That they were working illegally. And such a letter, signed by Mr Praprotnik, can be signed by any citizen and sent to a tourist agency and says, "Give me the information where this Member and this Member have been." How? Where's your marriage floor? She's not here. If you start an ideological fight at this level, a corruption level, and this report written by the KPK, you will have it – but you will not win. You can't win. If we continue to talk exclusively about the topic on the agenda today, this is the law which provides for the transfer of property control powers and its public publication from the KPK to the Court of Auditors, then let us discuss it professionally. But if you're not ready, you'll hear more. I ask for an answer, both the Secretary of State and Mrs Hočevarje, what therefore happened, what has changed since 2006, 2007, when everything was fine, only the signature was a different one. Dr. Virant wrote down there, and now he's writing SDS. What happened? Whether there are airline tickets or there's a KPK report, what's right now, what's the problem now. The KPK has six numbers or eight numbers on the table for a year. The price of the plane ticket and the price list. Eight numbers look at children in the second grade of elementary school and says whether they're the same or not. KPK doesn't want to do this. Why? I'm asking if it's because he wants to keep this government alive. I can't find another answer. There is no other answer because it keeps this government alive. There's nothing else. Here you go, Mrs. Hotchevarova, you'll probably get your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Procedurally has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall not in any article require a Member or a Member to be present in the Chamber when his colleague wishes to mention him in his debate. In the future, I would like to ask you to warn the representatives of that Group of Members, who are often not present at the points it is proposing. But he can always call others if they're not there, and he doesn't even know if they are or not. I've been getting this kind of bullying myself for a while. The rules of procedure do not allow the person who is in charge of the meeting to call for a debate, even though the one from the debate has been cancelled. The Vice-President of the Party of the Slovenian Democratic Party first called me to the debate, although I was cancelled from the debate. This is a form of pressure on an individual and an impression that someone does not perform the task that he should perform. I ask you, Madam Vice-President, to explain to some, however, that they can only refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Let them say by which article of the Rules of Procedure someone must be present so that someone can speak about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Majda Potter. I accept your procedural proposal and your warning. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as you yourself have stated precisely and correctly. The presence of Members and Members of the National Assembly at the meeting during the discussions, and even in the event that they are mentioned, is not mandatory, since each Member and Members has the opportunity to listen to and monitor the debate in their office. It reacts or replicates by its own judgment when it assesses it. I accept your proposal and move on to further discussion. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First, I would like to say something to Mr Gorenak. I believe that his opinion that the DL party under the second roof was also relevant to our client is that of DesSUS. We were in the coalition, as you know. And we would have remained in the coalition, and then we had nothing against the SDS or the SDS party, except that the coalition parties then declared that we do not want the president who received the assessment he had just received by the Commission to prevent corruption. I don't think it's our fault that we didn't stay in the coalition, but it was our fault somewhere else. And that shouldn't be the reason you're exposing us like this right now. So much for that. But I would like to say the following about the problem of corruption. Corruption is a problem that causes largely unrest and dissatisfaction between citizens and citizens. Therefore, we must pay all attention to the persecution of corruption and take it seriously, give greater powers to the competent authorities to prosecute corruption and ensure the right conditions for work and everything else necessary to do so. Citizens and citizens as well as institutions must also abandon the tolerance to corruption so far and consistently announce to the authorities all acts that are corrupt or reflect signs of corruption. I believe that the proposal for a law that we are considering today is also put in place, or in particular, to discredit the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and to take it away from it, part of the powers relating to the supervision of the assets of officials. Let me remind you, efforts to disband the Commission have been taking place since Mr Kos led it. As early as 2009 and 2010, the National Assembly considered a similar text, such as the text of the Law on the Public Properties of Officials, which we are considering. A few more words about the violation of this law with the Constitution. I believe that the Law on the Public Properties of Officials is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in a work transferring the tasks of control from the KPK to the Court of Auditors. 150. Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: "The Court of Auditors is the highest authority for the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure. The rules and powers of the Court of Auditors shall be laid down by law. The Court of Auditors shall, in its work, be independent and bound by constitutional law." And the 151st article says, "Members of the Court of Auditors are appointed by the National Assembly." Therefore, the proposal that the revision of private funds should be carried out by the Court of Auditors is not feasible. Let me finish. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we are to implement Mr Gorenak's proposal or opinion, which considered that the work of the Commission to prevent corruption could be taken over by the Court of Auditors, we should amend the Article of the Constitution which speaks about what I have read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much. As a proposalant, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u102	Of course, Mrs. Popotat, I must answer you. Desus isn't the one replacing the president of the SDS. Desus isn't the one replacing the Prime Minister. You wanted, as you said, to replace the Prime Minister, but the President of the Government was voted on by Parliament. As for the party president, he was voted by our membership, so you can't make that decision. So the matter is perfectly clear. My debate went in that direction when I said what would you do if they set up a system-wide anti-corruption law in the Constitutional Court. Because if these provisions fall, the KPK report also falls. That's what I'm talking about, so you need to know. You're talking about the greater powers of the KPK. There is no country on the ground where the anti-corruption commission would have greater powers. I don't know what else you'd give them - a gold watch with a plumber, if possible, or something, I don't understand. He's already got the highest powers. That this is a matter of discrediting the Commission, I, of course, reject it because it is not a matter of any discrimination. This is a transfer of jurisdiction to the Court of Auditors, which does not require any change to the Constitution. When you merged or when we merged the customs and tax administration, we didn't change the Constitution. All you need is a change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thanks for the replica. Dear Mr Gorenak, we in Desus have never thought about changing the President for you, as the SDS says. God forbid. At that time, we only said that we would not participate in a government where the President, who had received a negative assessment by the Commission to prevent corruption, would be. It's just that we're clear. However, that we have decided to leave this government is our sovereign right and it would not be necessary to discuss it, because we have only decided on this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. You want a word as a proponent, Dr. Vinko Gorenak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you. I understand, of course I understand. So you went from the party's president, who was told he couldn't explain 200 000 euros, to the one who couldn't explain two and a half million euros. Congratulations on your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u107	The word is from a representative of the government, here is the present secretary of state, mag. Renata Zatler.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Since the government was challenged or some questions were raised, I was obliged to explain something. The government is well aware of the problem of corruption and has therefore also taken a step towards solving the problems in this area, particularly the resolution or implementation of the proposed measures already proposed by the Commission for the Prevention of Senate Corruption. These 15 proposals for measures are currently in the government. 15 plus two additional measures; one additional measure concerns the prevention of corruption and the strengthening of integrity in public administration, while the additional measure concerns the area of justice. I would also like to stress that one of the important measures is related to the amendment or amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We are aware in the government that certain amendments to this law are needed, as has already been said, in the Government's work programme, it is a serious intention to go to this law. I have already made it clear in the introductory position that we agree with certain proposed solutions, in particular those relating to the public information of officials' assets. The current law also foresees – the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, so that certain data on officials' assets are also made public. Due to the very problem of the implementation of individual articles of the current law in practice, this publication has not yet been published. On this basis, we also assess that changes to these articles are necessary. I must point out that I already have before me a draft amended proposal for equal work relating to data on the property situation and changes in the property situation of members of the National Assembly, members of the Council of State, the President of the Republic and other officials. Here I would stress the need to take into account the principle of proportionality in the publication of the data. Will we also intervene in the publication of data on the assets of officials, public servants. To a certain extent, we consider that this proposal, which also mentions the part relating to administration, is questionable. The question is whether, in this case, they could set a limit where they would require a public publication officer in the first rank; in the second rank, third rank in the work relating to public servants or other officials or government officials, services, directors, etc. It is normal for data to be sent on assets, but we assume that it is not the best solution or not proportionate in the work relating to the mandatory public publication, an online publication of all data is made. One measure of proportionality is also needed here. What has changed from 2006 to today? We believe that a great deal of changes have been made during this period. Not only do I think that we are aware of the problem of corruption is very important. There was probably a lot of corruption in our country 15 years ago, but we weren't aware of it. Today we are also aware of it with the help of an organ that works. The Anti-Corruption Commission has made progress in this particular area so that all citizens are aware that corruption is a problem and that we are also detecting it. I'm going to point this way again. The government estimates that the work of the Commission to prevent corruption is effective and that certain amendments to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption are needed. The proposals for solutions proposed in this law are also acceptable and will be taken into account in some part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much. One more time. What has happened between 2006 and now that this solution cannot be implemented? The contents are the same, but the signature is the second. He used to be a signatory to Dr. Virant, today he's SDS. You didn't answer me. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next debate. It's Mr. Robert Hrovat's turn. After him, Mr. Ivan Hršak, mag. Ivan Vogrin and then get some more mags ready. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, I don't think anything's changed. But your conclusion is correct. Only the signatory is second; in fact, nothing has changed. I don't know if we are aware of corruption much more than in 2006. But the fact is that corruption has been and is now; and it is right to pursue it. Initially, it is important to tell all four coalition groups that this bill does not end the anti-corruption commission. Not a single sentence of this is written in marriage. You just made that up – you made it up to make some impression that the Slovenian Democratic Party, yeah, now it wants to make a difference in the area of detection of corruption and it proposes some law that abolishes the anti-corruption commission. That's actually not true! We don't write a word about it. It is not even a matter of any discrediting of the anti-corruption commission, although there is a lot to be said in its account, and I will talk about it later. Today we have the first consideration of this law. First reading, the proposer is the Slovenian Democratic Party. A very similar law, if not even the same as it was proposed in 2006. In 2006, this law was okay, almost harmonised. In fact, it was harmonized and little was lacking and could be accepted in the National Assembly. Now the government's opinion is negative, the opinion of the Minister, who was the author of this law, which we are submitting today, the Slovenian Democratic Party. The fact is that there is a need to make a difference in the area of detection and prevention of corruption. Members who have now resigned have also talked about this. Today we are talking about the goals and the starting points of this law. This law can be finalized, and it can be further improved in further procedures. And what exactly do we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party? This has already been said, but it is only right to say repeatedly that perhaps we can remember something more easily. We're proposing a law on public property for officials. That's what we suggest. What does that mean? This means that we want to slightly extend the set of pledges for the obligation to register the property and the allocation of powers to control the assets of the officials to the Court of Auditors. Why the Court of Auditors? Because it is the highest authority of control and is not bound to any branch of authority. In fact, it is not bound to any branch of authority, not to the executive branch, not to the legislative and not to the judicial branch. Their decisions, whatever they are, cannot be challenged before a court and have an independent and independent position in the system of state authority. One option for effective control or fight against corruption is to monitor the functional property situation. In my view, only an increase in the property situation without explanations, the reason explained, can be a reason to identify corruption. A very important article in this law is also that the data of supervised officials are published online. Previously, the Secretary of State spoke about the principle of proportionality, the limit. Why, what, if we're talking about fighting corruption, why set some boundaries. I'm really interested in those boundaries you talked about earlier. This is the most transparent to publish on the website. I also published the property a few years ago, and because other parliamentary groups did not follow it, why would it be us who would continue to do so? And if necessary, we will now publish it without any problem. But I don't know why you didn't follow it. Once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party does not abolish the Commission's proposal to prevent corruption. We're transferring control powers to the Court of Auditors. And now a few more words about the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or the composition of a still operating Senate, although it has formally resigned. Do you think Mr Klemenčič, who was still a few years ago in the government of Borut Pahor, the closest associate of Katarina Kresal; and Mr Rok Praprotnik, the former journalist of Dnevnik, who in my opinion was in some way – at least that feeling – in charge of smearing the name of Janez Janša, independent. Or do you feel that this is independent that we can really say — that is really professional, that is an authority that no one can complain about. I don't think that's true. The Court of Auditors is for me an expert body, an independent body and is the highest supervisory authority in the country. And why don't we authorize them to control the assets of all the officials. It is interesting that all the members of the Group actually agree with most of the proposed provisions. But for the marriage, you've all predicted, not everything, we're talking about coalition parliamentary groups, but you predicted that you wouldn't support it. Why not? Is it really the reason that the Slovenian Democratic Party is signed under this law? You have to admit that we are doing great and good to actually encourage the government to work fast in some areas. Remember the last intervention laws after that. Even today, I am sure that if we did not bring this law or proposal to the National Assembly at that time, we would still be discussing the assessment of damage and some criteria. We'd set up groups and then eventually we'd come up with some kind of intervention law. And it's similar here. After what you said, I believe the law will not be supported. But at the same time, I am confident that it will accelerate the state of affairs in the Ministry so that there will be a so-called system law, about which you speak so much. We also stated in the law that, from now on, the Anti-Corruption Commission is also obliged to report its assets to the Court of Auditors. What kind of situation do we have right now? The anti-corruption Commission is currently reporting to the National Assembly. We supervisors on their side are overseeing the supervisors. There's a lot of confusion here, and it's not a good arrangement, I'm sure you don't. This solution, which we propose that the Anti-Corruption Commission also report to the Court of Auditors and be responsible, seems to me to be the right solution, a really good solution. According to the views expressed at the outset, I fear that this law will be rejected, that it is not appropriate for further consideration, that you all speak of our solutions as good, but that the signature is only incorrect or wrong and this law will obviously not be supported. That's too bad. It is a pity mainly because of the real fight against corruption and not because of the political fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak is next in line, which is not in the Chamber at the moment. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, I'm asking him to prepare the mags. Katarina Hočevar, Mr Franz Pukšič, Mrs Marija Plevčak and then Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In relations, people have made the greatest progress when they have accepted the civilisation standard that if five people eat for the same table, there are different religious confessions, different political orientations, different value systems, but there is no need for them to shoot at each other, to curse themselves, to interfere with what I don't know. Such a civilization standard would be good if this National Assembly were to accept it. I have a feeling that, in fact, everyone who is in a position must speak in the same way. Anyone else would talk, that's the problem. And I think the National Assembly will start doing well when people in position will speak differently, and in opposition it will be different — for this is life. Let's cut to the chase. I said that because of the frequent omens, why someone's saying something. Because every man is different, and because he has that right. So we're talking about officials who are supposed to report on their assets, incomes and so on. Why is that a problem? Everyone's free to decide whether or not to be an officer. If they decide to make it public. This is my position and the fact that we try to hide things in many areas shows that we are not honest and do not mean anything honestly in our performances. The constitutionality of the law – we cannot say whether the law is constitutional or not, because we are not the Constitutional Court. When the law is passed, let us — who doubts — judge the Constitutional Court and determine whether the law is constitutional or not. Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or Finally, in one of his own performances, the president said that the greatest trap of corruption is the greatest generator of corruption, too complex, too extensive, unclear legislation. He also said that it was purposefully designed to enable corruption. It is said that we who should start adopting different laws are simpler. With every law we adopt, we're going to speed up corruption a little bit. The last such law is the Energy Act. Why are no laws passed by the opposition? This is the 20-year-old feature of Slovenia that brought us to bankruptcy. Because at the moment when someone moves from position to opposition, the mind moves into the heads of the remaining Members. And now that these Members are no longer in position, they will no longer be right and others will be right, and vice versa. This is going to happen for the next 10 years, until we're completely bankrupt, and then we'll probably sober up. Finally, I wrote thinking why people in Slovenia do not like Slovenian politicians. You know why not. I'll add. I've made a lot of points, why not, I'll add – because we're lying and we're lying so much that we end up lying so long that we believe ourselves that what we're saying is the truth. That's what you see here today. I don't know if I'm in the Hrastovec Institute or I'm in Parliament. The representative of the government says, "We support the law," and in the next sentence, she says, "but we will not support the marriage solution." That's what I wrote, that's what I was told. The government supports the law, but the government does not support the bill. President, I'm sure you need to extend it to me for 10 seconds because you were talking when my time began. I mean, let's give it a little bit. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much, mag. Vogrin. I propose that we do not make personal or other assessments and judgments on Members and Members present and representatives of the Government in the course of the discussions. We are moving on to the next debate. Mag. Katarina Hochevar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again! Initially, allow me to try to explain or present my vision to the questions raised by the representative of the proposer. Since 2007, the main issue in this area has been the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in 2010. This has made it very important to extend the powers and tasks of the anti-corruption commission, which it did not previously have. If I plastically prove only criminal provisions in the previous law, which was called the Anti-Corruption Act, there were only two criminal provisions; there were practically two parties in the new law. And that's the added value that shows that this area has also improved systematically. If I continue, you have stated very correctly, Mr Gorenak, that the Court of Auditors had no problems in 2007 with this. But you didn't ask them about it today. I would like to warn and point out that in the last period of this institution, which is doing well and which has a reputation in the Slovenian space, we have imposed many new tasks. We gave her the legal authority to exercise control in companies owned indirectly by the state. SDH, they're going to be able to revise TES 6, bad bank. We passed the Political Parties Act and the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act. These are all new powers and enlargements. additional burdens for the Court of Auditors. This has changed since 2007. I agree, but on the other hand, it should also be possible to see if any old jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors is exceeded during this period. For example, whether there is a real risk for public finances that a regular or mandatory audit of the Court of Auditors is, say, a revision of the first pension fund or some other audit. Let's do things systematically and systematically; if we do something, let's see what we're doing on the other side. You have made me laugh with this repetition that Dr. Virant is the author of this proposal, because this means that there is no added value in your midst since 2007, if you claim that in 2007 he wrote it, and in 2014 you are filing the same or identical bill. I said I like your solutions to make it public, to include more information in your proposal. But, you know, there's always some personal data protection, and so on, so in our Group of Members, we suggest that the government take a look at this from all aspects. You're making a law called the Public Property Act. This is another brand-new law. Why, if we have all of this defined and set out in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which has been newly adopted and adequately supplemented or with much better improvements, we can say - good steps forward - in 2010. Changes happen, we're in a society like this, in that age. And of course, perhaps now is the time to overwind some things, but correct them. However, I do not think it is time for us to systematically change the matter by shifting one competence to another institution if we have handled it better a few years ago. As you asked me what has happened since 2007, I said, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption has happened and many new powers have already been imposed on the Court of Auditors. I think that the Court of Auditors is an institution that is over the path of public money; the Anti-Corruption Commission has to be on the path of private money for public officials or make sure that, God forbid, as little as possible or no more public money passes into the private pockets of public officials. Now I ask you: why do you now, at this point, think you are the key authority to propose control of property to another state authority, if we already have one for it. This is my point, my point of view; of course, as a Member of the Civil Gazette, I respect the different views, opinions and always listen to you carefully and listen to you. But I always think hard when I choose hard words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. He has the floor as a proposaler for Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I haven't said any hard words, at least as far as you're concerned, not today, not before. I also appreciate your efforts to at least try and find some solutions or answers that the secretary of state won't give me yet, but it's closer to the minister, and every day it's like that with him, and you probably don't. I didn't exactly say it was the same law as it was in 2006 – but the basic idea is the same. The basic idea is the same. At that time, it was also envisaged that control of the assets of officials would be transferred from the KPK to the Court of Auditors – and the author was Dr. Virant. But now you've found two reasons. Just because it's a new marriage seems like a pretty bad reason. We also had the Customs Act, and we had the Tax Administration Act, but we made a change. As for the fact that we have not consulted the Court of Auditors – I propose that you support the law, we will have about a month or so. A month and a half to hold such consultations. As far as change is concerned. You are also transferring from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to a government service of some kind, but it is done as always in these cases that funds, workers and material things are transferred with them to the body. That's what we do. Every government does it. So it's possible to do that. I'm still not satisfied, but since you've done your best, at least I don't want to bother you with these questions anymore, so I repeat the question for the Secretary of State. What happened? You're in the middle of something, but I'm gonna have to conclude today's meeting is the reason for the plane ticket. But I'm not going to end this, because I'm not the one to decide. It's up to the KPK, but she hasn't decided yet. If you don't answer me, I will finally leave this hall with a clear conviction that we have Goran Klemenčič, the head of the KPK, who has super-clerber glue and evil government together. So tell me what has changed from 2006 to today. I've never heard anything from you on this subject. And again. We don't stop the KPK like we keep talking. Part of their powers are transferred to another body. What's that? As part of the Ministry of the Economy's responsibility, you're transferring it to government service. Is there something wrong with that? If that's what you've decided, fine, because you've made up your mind; you think you'll do better. It's fine with me, too. I don't have a problem with that. But I don't see any reason why we can't propose what we're proposing. And Mrs. Hochevar, you say this thing works well. Well, that's what we suggested before, but it wasn't a good time. However, 2011 was not a good time, and now is not a good time. Then you'll have no choice but to file new signatures in two months and we'll go again, another lap running. But you'll say you have problems with us. In short, the Secretary of State, please, what has changed from 2006 to today, that this solution was appropriate at the time and today is no longer appropriate? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič is next. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u120	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday we talked a lot about corruption in state companies, today we are talking about corruption in officials, but look at it – when the opposition party, most often it is a party to the SDS, offers a hand in cooperation and no law or law. no proposal falls on fertile soil. They're looking for a thousand and one excuses how something can't be done, how it doesn't want something, and how it doesn't want something. This is only according to the paradigms of this government. I know I'm already repeating myself, but with every new law we submit, or you submit it, the same thing happens. One is words, the other is acts. So much support for how corruption must be eradicated. The government itself recognises that a certain part of the law is good, but we will vote against it. You talk for five minutes about how good marriage is, and then in the last sentence, you say, "and we won't support the marriage." Let me get started. What did the proponents put in the marriage? That the demand to prevent corruption is one of the elements of the constitutional principle of the rule of law, particularly because corruption threatens the rule of law and also significantly reduce citizens' confidence in important state institutions. At the same time, it reduces political stability and social peace. And there are some reasons why we think that this bill is urgently needed to be tabled and adopted during the course of the procedure. But they're looking for an ideology right now in the introduction, and it's not even a millimeter in this marriage. By law, we want to expand the existing situation or the existing set of pledges, while at the same time giving greater powers to an authority that, at least for the time being, we all trust to a very large extent – this is the Court of Auditors. And once again, not for the last time, and probably not the only one in the SDS Group – we do not end the anti-corruption commission by this law, especially the coalition representatives. There is no trace of this in the text of the draft law. The bill provides that all the data covering the application of the official’s assets — the status of the official — shall be disseminated, irrespective of the provisions of the law governing the protection of personal data, and the statutory rule on tax confidentiality, shall be made publicly available and published on the official side of the Court of Auditors. It's a problem again. When we want to be public and transparent, we find, as I said before, a thousand and one reasons not to do so. More. The draft law also provides for the form and method of sanctioning the debtors in the event that they do not provide the required data, the penalties and fines are very proportionate. That's what the proponents wrote. Then follow what I've been talking about. Opinions of the Government, which almost as parrots are repeated by representatives of coalition species. The Government has examined the indications and justifications of the bill's proponents and, in this regard, notes that the reasons for the disclosure of the assets and the public only of the assets of the officials can be supported. The government also agrees that effective action against corruption by public officials requires monitoring and strong control of their assets. And so on. Agreed. Agreed. And the end of this piece of government material. Notwithstanding the above, the Government does not support the bill. Then about half a side of some reason why something can't be done, especially because something doesn't want to. More. You wrote: European international institutions such as the OECD and GRECO, as well as Transparency International, also assess the legislative framework for regulating integrity and preventing corruption in Slovenia as appropriate. How appropriate? You suggested Mr. Musculo, so you withdrew him yourself. You proposed amendments to the Referendum Campaign Act. You proposed amendments to the Political Campaign Act, where you spoke nonstop about corruption being a problem in Slovenia, among political parties and must be eradicated. More. We have just adopted a third reading yesterday, and tomorrow we will vote on the Act on Access to Public Information, which was based mainly on representatives of the Government and representatives of coalition Members, from the point of view that 99% of Slovenian managers in state companies are corrupt, and 1% of us do not care what happens. And since they're all corrupt, they need to be sanctioned. Yesterday I warned you that such a policy was oz. such thinking is wrong that we should reverse the story. Today, when we have the opportunity to pursue that goal of yours, let everything be public, transparent and eradicate corruption at state level, between politics, at local level and among all the topics that the law also defines – no, that is not possible. But we can't do that, we have another marriage, we have other officials, we have something else. There's always something else, some reason not to do something. In view of yesterday's debate with the Public Information Access Act, I am very concerned about the following sentence written by the Government: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia in principle supports the public information on the property status of officials. That's what I imagine. If they are ours, they shall in principle be confirmed: but if they are yours, it shall be revealed, as some say, to the undergarments. Such principles are highly questionable and worrying. We suggest that this word "in principle supports" – yesterday at least we have all talked about supporting the disappearance of corruption between managers in state-owned enterprises, today we are all talking about how corruption between officials should be eradicated and you write down "in principle we support the public". In the classic practice of this government coalition, including on a proposal from ministries, you will vote against the public and transparency of the data on the property status of officials. This is the policy of this government, and these are the words of the fight against corruption, where by pressing the button when voting, all of this is undermined in a fraction of a second. Thank you very much for the transparent and public functioning of representatives of the government coalition and representatives of ministries. What am I trying to say? Marriage is a good foundation. And those who have talked about how good marriage is, however, is incomplete. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the number of laws we have dealt with by the government in the last month in the National Assembly. I'll say it myself - not enough. We have been dealing with a lot of nonsense, and the law-law service has been going through marriage proposals day and night, and we've been trying to propose amendments so that the laws can "drink water," but you can confirm them all. But now that we have a first reading of the bill, when we can have a mother's working body, a second reading and a third reading – no, the law is incomplete, the debate on it needs to be concluded immediately, because it is obviously a waste of words, at least that is how it was heard today by representatives of government types. As if they had not heard of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the possibility that amendments could be tabled in individual laws. In short, everything can be done if it is willful, but if there is no will, at least ten reasons today, we have heard why it cannot be supported, and if you are convinced for five more hours, you would probably find at least 100 more reasons why we would not support the marriage. [[…]] But there is only one reason why you will not support it – the proposaler is the SDS Group of Members. And you don't even care if it's overwritten by Gregor Virant or not. No, this time the SDS Members are signed, and before anything is read about this law, it is already in the heads of the coalition MPs to "stop". This also shows the seriousness of the proposaler’s intention when they talk about how much marriage is pleasing. The law is good or bad. If it's bad, it can be fixed, but if it's good, support it. So I appeal again, don't talk about anything, but press the button to do something completely different. To conclude when we talk about the corruption of officials. Yes, the problem is the corruption of officials; whether we are Members, whether they are representatives of government services, whether they are ministers, secretaries of state, mayors or anyone else — is a problem. This does not mean that all or all of us are corrupt or equal. I don't agree to this thesis. And I think if this law were to be adopted and implemented in practice, the whole concept of all the officials covered by this law could have mechanisms to have the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission inferring that those in people who arouse the fact that politicians are the worst, that managers in state-owned companies are the worst, corrupt, thieves and I don't know what, then that percentage, maybe 10% – I hope – those who are corrupt and need to be driven out of economic life as well as political life. But if you think that everything is super nice in Slovenia and that corruption is a problem, and obviously we will not deal with it, then you will do what you promise – reject the bill instead of finishing it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Renata Zatler, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. I would like to repeat once again the position of the Government, which I have already given before, and I hope that we will now understand each other better. With regard to the transfer of powers of the Commission to prevent corruption to control the assets of the debtors under the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act to the Court of Auditors, the Government considers that this transfer would otherwise be possible, but now the current regime has proved to be effective and appropriate. It therefore considers that this transfer or this proposed solution is not the most appropriate at this time. It is not to say that the Court of Auditors would never, in any way, be responsible for or have such powers. In 2006 and 2007, when we did not yet have a new law or law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, it was probably a good time for these powers to be transferred. At this point, this body operates with these powers, and we have the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, and the government estimates that these proposed solutions are good, including with regard to the public data. We support proactively, the real public of data online, not only reactively, access to data – and we will definitely support it. These solutions are those that will also go into the renewed Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. This law, as you know, is already in preparation, the first drafts are already, and I have already read to you an article that specifies exactly how the public should be able to make the data available. The current law, so that we will not forget this, already stipulates that certain data should also be made publicly available on the Internet, Article 46. However, this has not yet occurred in practice because there are certain technological or technical problems. The implementation of Article 46 itself is also somewhat problematic, since the content relates mainly to the publication of only information on where the difference in assets occurred. He's not talking about this initial condition, and then he's talking about the state of termination, he's talking about the difference. It is certainly necessary for these provisions to be amended and will be accompanied by this novelty, which is in the plan that is being drawn up and is in the government's plan this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Zatler's, you can turn off the microphone. Thank you. He asked Dr. Vinko Gorenak as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much. All right, all right, all right. But in the work you mentioned, in 2006, we also reported on the property, as far as I know, but then there was someone else, instead of Mr Klemenčič, there was Mr Kos. What, then, did the new marriage bring? The new law has brought nothing new, except a criminal provision, and has brought nothing else. But I'm afraid we're there now, Secretary of State, where it's called that this commission is working properly. Is that right? This Commission shall act accordingly. He's got the right ones, let's get ours together. So here's the answer. So here's the answer and nothing else. Now you have indirectly confirmed to me that this arrangement is effective. How effective is it, what's it like? But by not inviting one president of the party to talk at all? Let's say he's the president of the country today, and he was the president of a party. He wasn't even invited to talk. The five other presidents of the parties shall be duly explained. What does this explain properly? It's a confession to a priest who's one of them, and a different commitment to another. One's five fathers, the other's two. That's not true. In the case of two people who have decided that they should be assembled, they must be assembled. This is therefore the proper functioning of the Commission. And nothing else is a problem. There's something else you're saying. Article 46 is not being implemented. Who allowed Mr. Klemenčič not to implement Article 46? By this logic, I can drive home this afternoon, and I drive on Highway 150, regional 90, where the limit is 50; and I say, I have decided not to respect the law. Who allowed him not to respect Article 46? Is this a deal between a competent minister and him, but what is it, I don't know? He doesn't respect it by any logic. These are troublesome things, and I think that's too easy to say, and you've been trying to get me out and say it, and that's what's changed. Nothing's changed. Mr Klemenčič's way of deciding – in the old country, we would say morally and politically appropriate – is appropriate today. And that's it. Tossing on those real ones, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, and I would like to ask Mr Jakob Preseknik, mag, to prepare for it. Jana Jenko, Mr. Richard Braniselj, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! At the debate on this proposal of the Law on the Publicity of Officials, I cannot possibly pass the first report on the fight against corruption presented by the European Commission on 3 February, in which it is also among the eight countries of Slovenia. As with Slovenia, corruption for Europe remains a major challenge. With regard to the whole of the European Union, corruption affects all citizens of the Member States of the European Union and causes the European economy some €120 billion of damage each year. EUR 120 billion per year. In recent years, Member States have adopted many initiatives in this area, but the results vary. More needs to be done to prevent and punish corruption. This is recommended by the European Commission. And these are just some of the findings of this first and long-awaited report on the fight against corruption in the European Union. What do we find important for Slovenia in this report? It is important that the European Commission notes in this report that the political will to fight corruption has fallen in Slovenia. That is why, in the position of the New Slovenia Group, I said that we would like to see the anti-corruption laws, including disclosure of the assets of officials, adopted unanimously, by consensus. Maybe it's like the Law of Members. It is probably in our interest, colleagues and colleagues, to disclose our assets online, on the front pages of journals, moons and so on. Because until we somehow gain that awareness, until then, there will be some general belief that they are all the same, they are all corrupt. You can easily find yourself in a newspaper or rather in a semi-magazine that you are corrupt because you have asked a question about the pomura water system and that you get between €5 000 and €10 000 for the question of the message. If that were true, such a Member should be imprisoned immediately. But if that's not true and the newspaper was being lied to, then this newspaper needs to be closed. But nothing happens in Slovenia, nothing to punish lies as well. The Commission therefore proposes in Slovenia's report to impose dissuasive penalties on elected and appointed officials if they violate the requirements for declaration of property and conflict of interest, and to adopt additional measures to strengthen the standards of accountability of elected officials. Let's face it - this proposed law introduces penalties. The Slovenian Commission also proposes to protect the operational independence and resources of anti-corruption bodies and special prosecution services to combat financial crime. To strengthen anti-corruption mechanisms in connection with state-owned or state-controlled enterprises and in procurement and privatisation procedures and to do more to effectively control the financing of political parties. As regards the financing of political parties, we have taken a step forward in our conviction. I repeat the quote that I have previously repeated, which I read earlier in the position of the New Slovenia Group. "Corruption undermines citizens' confidence in democratic institutions and the rule of law, damages the European economy and consumes the necessary tax revenues." This is what the European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Mrs Cecilia Malmström, said at the presentation of the European report, and continues to say that there is no point without corruption in Europe. Of course, she did not want to expose the individual and most problematic Member States of the European Union, the most problematic in terms of corruption. Thank God we know where Slovenia would be. We really need to do something in this area. I am extremely disillusioned and disappointed because, as a member of the parliamentary investigative commission investigating bank robberies, in the banking system, these robberies have created such a large bank hole that it seems that it has not yet shown its final dimensions – we simply do not get any information on behalf of banking secrecy. Colleagues and colleagues, what if because of this situation in Slovenian banks owned by the state to understand each other, Troka should not have come to the Republic of Slovenia. If we look at the results of the public opinion published by the Eurobarometer in early February on Europeans' attitude towards corruption. The survey shows that as many as three quarters or more of the 76% of Europeans believe that corruption is widespread. More than half or more precisely 56% believe that the level of corruption in their country has increased over the past three years. Every 12 European, i.e. 8%, says he has experienced or witnessed corruption in the last 12 months. So it's a really big raccoon in the European Union. But let us focus on our home country, our country, on Slovenia. What can we do to eliminate the phenomenon of corruption? We had a few cases, the Minister resigned, the Minister's interpellation; it all sort of covered up and covered up, it's all okay, it's all clear, nothing happened, and we're all messed up in some way: elected Members, called Ministers, you're all corrupt, it's a message from the streets. We need to empty this house and bring in new ones because you're all corrupt. This is painful and, as I have already said, we should, by consensus and unanimously adopt measures, perhaps add radical measures that will reveal the assets of officials. We publish them online because we are elected officials, especially Members of Parliament, we are public 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Who's afraid of exposing their assets? This bill deserves further consideration of all attention, expressions of goodwill and perhaps some adaptation to the second reading and then to acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I'm gonna get a little attached to my predecessor, Mr. Horvath. Yes, in Slovenia, unfortunately, a number of political wills have fallen, and unfortunately the will to develop economically or domestically – the will to work have fallen. Surely the greatest desire of all remains, especially those who are already coming in later years, as soon as possible to retire, for their homework. No one has the will or will to work, not to progress, to anything that would increase our economic potential. But if I go back to that proposal. I have repeatedly warned in various laws that we are simply going in all areas in some form of overriding. We want to redecorate everything, every thing is normalized at ten possible ends, and then only holes or circles of this normality are searched. And there's some way that these definitions can get out of hand. However, I wonder, even with regard to this law, what about moral and ethical values. Unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer of these. If they were moral-ethical values, then they wouldn't have a case of Minister Stepišnik who's not good for the government, but he says he's good for the National Assembly and he's not a problem. This means that in the National Assembly a Member can cash such money from the State and cheerfully forward. It would not have been Luke Koper with all the transactions and nonsense that the former leadership has been dealing with, so many times, there would have been no singing of airline tickets. There would be no such and different opinions of the anti-corruption commission and could still be listed. On the other hand, we have a lot of nonsense. I'll literally take the case that was explained to me weeks ago. An example of a small entrepreneur – a painter who, in his small congregation, where the councilman is also a municipal councilor, was unable to perform a painting service on some municipal property after the water was poured out; but someone from the other end of Slovenia who hired someone from that congregation was selected to work for one afternoon. But it's the right way. This way of actively involving people in the field is impossible, and whatever happens in this area would be corruption immediately and I know what else. The publication of ownership, publication of the assets of officials, public publication of property was mentioned several times today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have already said that when one of the members of the group did so, I have no problem if the KPK actually publishes relevant data on this property. But I must say that this publication of property has aroused a lot of ridicule, because we also know each other a little in the field, and the published information was sometimes attracted to the hair. We have a case that happened days ago in the media that the director of one of the public companies with a substantially higher salary than all of us, including the President of the National Assembly, lives in an apartment with a non-profit rent. Is that okay? But there is no need to react to this, but there is no need to respond to this in this local community? But no one needs to respond to that. We said earlier in the delegation's opinion that we are in principle in favour of some changes in this law. Personal position – The transfer from KPK to the Court of Auditors is questionable. It doesn't matter who's doing what. It is important that it does the right thing to carry out its work in accordance with the law and, above all, that moral and ethical values are maintained there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Jana Jenko, Mr Richard Braniselj, Mr Jože Tanko, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Franz Jurša are preparing for this. Here you go, mag. Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting for everyone! With interest, I have recently observed or monitored the situation of the opposition, particularly the Slovenian Democratic Party. Instead of dealing with current issues in these times, this is the economy, education, unemployment, very much dealing with themselves and their problems, especially with the past. If I just look at the points on the show today. Under point one, retroactivity was required. The second point, which is now on the table, is an intervention into the Constitution, and the third point is once again ideological separation. The coat of arms and the flag and so on, they don't like something there, maybe a red color on a third of the flag. I believe that this proposed law is entirely without need, as the assets of officials are already governed by several laws; above all, it seems to me that this is the work of the Commission to prevent corruption, which is doing its job well. If some do not participate or can not explain the origin of their assets, it is their problem or perhaps the problem of the whole party, I do not know whether 2 parties in Parliament. But it is true that this is a very attractive proposal of the law, people have all the top of their heads, all the corruption that is taking place in Slovenia, both between entrepreneurs and some, customerism, as well as among the highest in the highest peaks of the country. I agree that this will have to be limited or eliminated as much as possible and punished by violators. In Slovenia, moral values are completely at the bottom, it seems, and we deal daily with problems that only anger people. However, I do not think that this act of opposition is going anywhere. Even ordinary people are slow enough to listen to these debates every day and get rid of nothing. We have a good law on integrity and the prevention of corruption that is being implemented. However, there is also the role of the court to continue to respond and punish appropriately. I think there's a flaw or a flaw in our system in order for the courts to react too quickly to this situation in the country in this area. I therefore appeal to the courts again, as we have repeatedly encouraged them to act as quickly as possible in these areas. However, I will not support this marriage, even though it would be very nice for the party, perhaps DeSUS, to bring a point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jenko, I must strongly reject what you are doing. You say we deal with ourselves and the past. Now, I'm going to ask you, did you support the firefighters' amendment? No, you were against it. Your mouth was full of heroes, how they helped and so forth; but when it was necessary to press, you were against. Next, have you supported those laws that we have proposed in the field of economics that concern today, today and here, and do not concern the past? No, you were against it. We'll pull out and we'll show the public. If necessary, I will also publish this on my own website to tell you that you are being misled. Today it is not about dealing with the past; no law that we are considering today is about the past. The previous law regulated the lengthening of the murder, but otherwise, probably not until 15th century ago. So he was dealing with the future, you understood about the past. Read your stuff. The current law deals with the future, not the past. It works by how the Court of Auditors would effectively control you, me and all the other officials. This is not the past, this is the future, the present and the future. When we talk about the next law, let me simply remind you of the next matter; in Slovenia there have been two events. The first one was somewhere in Primorskie, and I don't know the author anymore, who once clogged the bells so they didn't ring for the big night. But once someone glued a cross, poured gasoline on it, and burned it. You know, it was a patriotic act, it was supposed to be an artistic act, so reported the media, which also praises you and me and criticises us. But a few days ago, we had a virtual flaglight with a red star. Pastor Turinek built it virtually, computerized, and it looked like that flag with the red star was on fire. You see, this was a crime under 297. That's what our media reported. But when we talk about the next law, there will be more to tell you colleagues, in any case you will have the opportunity, there is no country, or there are few countries that have as much regulation in this area as we have. We have the coat of arms and flag law that protects the existing coat of arms and flag, which you cannot redecorate, can't change, fake, whatever, but nothing says about the other symbols. Go to Germany, go to Berlin, pick up a flag with some kind of shorts, and you'll see that you get to the first bend when they take you to jail. But what do we have? The masquerades with these old symbols, where all those who worship the old symbols and lead this country today, sing Bandier Ross and so on in the Colossae. That this is not happening in the future and that we look to the future and not to look into history and the past, we must look to the future, and that is why these laws must be adopted. I don't like the kind of ideological debates you've had, and I reject them and reject them. We don't have any problems with these things, you have trouble worshiping these symbols. Apparently, it's kind of hard for you to find a comparison. Obviously these symbols are for you those you want to continue to have, which you want to keep watching, which you continue to worship. Not for me, I unlocked them in 1991, in the war for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u133	I'm sorry, Mr. Gorenak, but let's talk about officials. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u134	That's what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u135	I understand, but still.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u136	That's why I'm answering. I'm just telling her this is it. So let us look to the future, accept this law, which will effectively control you, me and everyone here present, and all those who are officials and who are not in this room. Let us look to the future, not the past. And even as far as the previous marriage is concerned, let us look to the future, so that in the future it is no longer possible for murderers to walk among us. It's looking forward and not back. And the law that follows is the look forward, not back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenko, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Yeah, right, let's keep looking. But whatever I'm listening to here, we're always going back somewhere, I'm sorry, and I really don't like it. I mean, I don't know how much I've been doing lately, but I'm kind of holding up when there's a lot of back talk. When there's a speech ahead, I'm very happy when there is. As far as the Act on Officials is concerned. I must say that you missed something – a change in the Constitution. Article 150 states exactly what the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors is, what the Court of Auditors sees — the use of public funds. And this is about the acquisition of officials. Each official — at the beginning of his term — probably you and everyone — had to report their assets. I get a new reporting request every year if my data has changed in the meantime. This is the duty of every official. But how they do it depends on an individual whether he lists it or not. However, we all know that there are cases where not everything is mentioned, so all parties are likely to have cases. It's up to the individual. That's right, let's look ahead and not back. I would be very happy to say that at all the points that will continue to take place at all the meetings, not back what happened at the time. This is the history that has happened, and we must live on with it. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people here who really look back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I'm telling you again. Since when are you a constitutional judge that you claim that the law needs to be amended? I don't know if you're a lawyer, whether you're a constitutional judge or what you are. You can run, and then you'll talk about it easier. If this was not problematic in 2007, when Dr. Virant regulated it, it is not problematic today. The transfer of powers regardless of this provision to control public funds is not problematic for my terms. But if he was troublesome, that's how the Constitutional Court will find out. Then why did you support the Real Estate Tax Act? You supported him, too. The Constitutional Court, at least as far as I know from the public hearing, has virtually no judge to say that this law is constitutional. They'll decide that. Let them decide, not you and me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jenko, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you very much. My colleague, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, has already read to you article 150 of the Constitution. The Court of Auditors is the highest authority for the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure, not the assets of officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next will have the word of Mr Jože Tanko, followed by Mr Roberto Battelli and then by Franz Jurša. Here you go, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know why they keep repeating these coalition mantras about what they want to talk about in the National Assembly. None of the proposals tabled in the legislative procedure of the Slovenian Democratic Party are of the taste of coalition MPs, nor of the taste of the government. Not a single suggestion. In a year, since you have a government, coalition Members, see what you have said about all the proposals we have tabled in the legislative process. You want to do something else. Now I ask you whether the government has invested and proposed what you would like to talk about. Do we have anything on the table today about what you'd like to say? She's not here. There's another thing. When one of the Members asked the Prime Minister on Monday about the questions he sent, if he could list any measure that contributed to economic growth, the President of the Government could not list it and had three days to prepare an answer to the question. She did not have one measure to contribute to economic growth. And now you, colleagues in the National Assembly, accuse the coalition Members of proposing something that is not related to current events. With what right? If the President of the Government cannot say a single measure with which economic growth has taken place in the last quarter. You didn't propose it, so she couldn't count it. Your second mantra, which we've been listening to all day and other days at other sessions, is that we keep going back into the past. Dear colleagues, if we are to look to the future only, then we must stop the prosecution, the judiciary, the National Investigation Office, Durs, Curs and so on. All the institutions that deal with what happened yesterday. All institutions, no exceptions. Otherwise, the existence of these institutions cannot be supported by any matter; by what you are discussing here today or what the government is saying. The events that have taken place are also important because they have an important impact on what is today and what will happen tomorrow. And that's why we have the state's attorney's office, so we have the tax administration, the customs administration we've had recently, so we have a trial. All of these are back-to-back events, and the KPK assesses things backwards. And if you want to amputate the country with such statements that we are listening to here — and verbally amputate it — then do it in fact. Shut down these institutions. There's nothing left for you, considering what you're talking about. Many of you have said that we have an extremely good law on integrity and the prevention of corruption. Members who adopted this law at the time of the Pahor government have great difficulties in implementing this law. When we want to check the assets of the three KPK Senate officials, they do not and do not know how to carry out this matter and finish it in more than a year and more. Last January, we filed a request to control the property situation of one of the members of the KPK Senate, on the President – the procedure has not yet been completed. A year and three months. What is this law and how it is implemented by the National Assembly in this area if we cannot control the property situation of the Commission's anti-corruption Senate? The other two members have not even begun to be investigated. The area of control of the KPK, this is the only part that the National Assembly exercises over them; everything else, all the supervision of the other officials is carried out by the KPK, is not carried out. The person in the National Assembly who is in charge of the procedure, the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, is now appointed or appointed. you have appointed her to the commission to elect a new Commission Senate to prevent corruption. What kind of signal is that? The procedure shall not end, the procedure shall not continue, matters shall be prevented, no meetings shall be convened, and the President of the Mandate-Election Commission shall be appointed to the committee to elect a new Senate. By the way, those candidates who have been registered at the Office of the President of the Republic, I do not think that it has been published today, who has all been reported, who has met the conditions; nor has it been written anywhere why the Commission has not proposed to the President of the Republic for the President of the KPK – despite meeting the conditions. The policy of directing controls over the functioning of officials goes in a precise political direction. If there is no suitable candidate for the taste of politics, then there is no way anyone will be named as a member of the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption. Political appointments – by the way, the Senate of the Commission consists of five persons, three of whom are appointed by the ruling coalition, one government, one coalition in the National Assembly and one official council called the Government. This is a very independent composition under the law passed by the Borut Pahor coalition. And now tell me how an independent Senate will come here to prevent corruption, which will treat equally, on the same criteria all those who will enter the audit cycle of this Commission. How? As was the case when the presidents of the parliamentary parties were examined, when some of them were robbed, some of them were not even touched. And make a report on the forensic investigation of the property situation of the presidents of the parliamentary parties. This we have a chance to see, has published the work on the website. As regards the quality of the Integrity Act – this law is judged by the Constitutional Court. In many provisions, according to the signatories, the requirement for constitutional review is inconsistent with constitutional regulation. Although the Constitutional Court has not ruled, the law is still in the process, but I think something will happen in this area. Something that will suspend or eliminate important provisions of this law. With this in mind, the legitimacy of work, as regards the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in a Important Work, will fall in my opinion. What's actually going to happen is another question. But given that the relevant provisions of the Constitution, particularly those which enable the party to appeal to the decision, are being violated, something is likely to happen in this case too. What was the application of the Integrity Act in the case of the supervision of the Presidents of Parliamentary Parties, you can also read from the report by Draga Kos, the former President of this Commission, who analysed the procedure for the supervision of the Presidents of Parliamentary Parties in accordance with the legal provisions of the Integrity Act. You can read the findings because they're public. All those who talk about how good we have the Integrity Act, but obviously you're talking about things and you haven't looked at them. Important constitutional lawyers or members of the Constitutional Court of previous calls have also been identified and have reported on the shortcomings of this law. I'm sure I'm respecting their opinion, but let's wait. I think something will happen in this area. I would also like to touch on the principles of transparency. When we discuss individual provisions of the laws, let's say when we discuss the Banking Act, the Slovenian State Holding Act and so on, we always hear this principle that we need to be transparent in our business. Something similar is now happening with the provisions of the Public Information Access Act. Full mouth of words about transparency, according to domestic transparency or traceability, visibility or whatever you translate and interpret. Are the solutions that you propose really so in marriage? We have proposed, for example, the regulation of banking – there is also a functionary to understand – that all the disputed maps that are being transferred, which have created a bank hole, open up to political responsibility, to the functional responsibility of reaching out to those who have influenced the allocation of individual loans from the function of political power. Did you support the solution? We have proposed twice the amendment to the Banking Act, and from September to December we had five times on the agenda of the National Assembly, either through an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, or in the examination of the law. Dear Members of the Coalition, raise your hand to those who have supported transparency in this case – no one. Has the government supported this solution for six billion or three billion outstanding files that form this bank hole, supported by the government? Have you supported those MPs in this coalition who would break down if anyone did anything against transparency? You're not. The entire coalition, from A to Z, has not supported even once the solution we have proposed to get to the actors in the bank hole. KPK – The Commission to Prevent Corruption in the So far Composition has, according to its own research, conducted a forensic investigation into the banking system. She's prepared a report that I don't know if it's available to the public. Probably not. But this commission is not even capable of mentioning a single name to the National Assembly commission of inquiry, which identifies the political responsibility for a bank hole. The Commission, which detects corruption everywhere, with each opposition party official, is unable to mention one single name when it comes to a bank hole that is the biggest problem in this country. So she did a forensic investigation. A big press conference, full of beautiful words, and doesn't give out a name. Is that transparent? All the bank files are signed on the left and on the right hand side of the person who granted the loan and on the one who received the loan, which is an integral part of the deal. For each transaction, the political pressures on the allocation of individual matters can be anticipated, as is the case with which the officials influenced the bankers in the banking system in order to do so. Who designed, say, a consortium for the Cologne? It's all written there, all foreseen, all clear. Here and there, one of those former members of the government boasted even in the National Assembly that he had helped to shape these solutions; or some mayor. And there's not a single name on the board. Even this, the President of the Commission did not know which article he would refer to in order not to say so when he was on the investigative committee. He could not even quote the article when he said that he could not report that the law was preventing him. What happened to this transparency? What is this Integrity Act, which prevents the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission from listing members or those identified in the monitoring or review procedures at the bank hole in order not to inform the public? Who are these people who deserve such mercy? Who are they? Who are the people who participated in ten billion missing money and can't reveal themselves to her? This is the closure of banking archives, this is the closure of banking archives, this is the coverage of corruption from the Commission's anti-corruption function. The commission that should investigate this should determine which should point to those officials who have done so is protected; it says that this law prevents it. However, we have a special law on integrity and the prevention of corruption on the basis of which this Commission is established. None of the coalition Members require anything from the KPC in this area. Nobody's asking the government to do anything. Only when it comes with a request to cover the bank hole and burden the citizens, but then full of big words. Article 235 or 238 of the Banking Act prevents disclosure. What officers are the ones who took part in the exhaustion of Probank and Factor Bank? What are they? Who is the one who decided two months before the bankruptcy of the Factor Bank will deposit the bank's state deposit on the jury? After what kind of officer did this happen? You don't care. He is not interested in the government, probably because the government has the budget and the deposit. He has no interest in any of the coalition members. Interesting. Mr. Virant is not interested. He's out there chasing some small things, talking about the fact that an MP who made some mistake recently in the past doesn't deserve a mandate. In these cases, when it comes to the decision of his government to charge 100 or 200 million to the jury accounts of these 2 banks, from which the supervisors were then paid, they paid prizes, probably dividends in considerable part, and all the blue ones quietly withdraw and do not know anything. That's the problem. And a similar story is a similar story in this functional law. All the full words, including the government, if you read the opinion, on the other hand, in paragraph 3, it nicely states, "in principle we support the transparency of the assets of officials". They're backing up. When it is time to say in the end that they also support the continuation of the procedure as far as this law is concerned, they say no. It's not quite right. Or the solution for the decimal is wrong. In this way, dear colleagues, we cannot resolve and cannot solve completely any things. I and my fellow Members, when we have invested a matter, including as a parliamentary group, have put some demands on the Commission to prevent corruption, which would also expose the members of the anti-corruption commission – the operations of their family members with the public sector. It is said that transparency, according to the local authorities, in their business or d. o. o. or whatever they already have with the public sector. The correspondence has been made public. But you think the Commission wanted to answer this question in order to prevent corruption. The Commission to prevent corruption in its annual reports discusses systemic corruption, corruption of the highest level and is unable to answer the question whether their family members operate with state-owned enterprises or public institutions through companies they have established. She didn't answer. At the same time, this Commission is capable of deepening the family member of the municipal councilor because he is the director of a company and has looked at a public road and paid for it. We have these cases, they're accessible. How to assess the quality of the Commission's work to prevent corruption, such as that it is inconsistent. This is what the former President says to prevent corruption, which we did not support, nor did we order his analysis. We have opinions from former constitutional judges, including opinions from many lawyers. We have cases that are proven to be very different. I have an example, for example, of one of the Presidents of Parliament, Mr Virant, who has benefited from a large number of air services. And with a terrible discount, a big discount. Cheap. However, in the revision, when the Commission revised the operations of the presidents of parliamentary parties in order to prevent corruption, it did not even detect this. Janša asked for tickets, she sought them herself, and she did not ask Virant for airline tickets. When we put on the table our approach to the same problem, we see that this report, also issued by the Anti-Corruption Commission, is not done on the same level, on the same level, in the same way. Not all were treated in the same review process in the same way, with the same intensity, the same width and the same depth. We can still talk about the fact that this is an independent institution, if it is already made publicly available from magnetograms which, after a decision by the information agents, are already made publicly available. This is possible that we can still talk about an independent institution when it comes to a process that has taken place simultaneously against persons of the same rank to such a different approach. In some, they were interested in everything and more and back, with some absolutely nothing. How to define the control of the property situation in the case of the KPK, when there is about a year's decision by the KPK on whether or not there has been any suspicion of corruption in these airline tickets. A year. A marginal case, a year. Control over this or detection or the communication of the finding in this respect takes longer than in the bank hole. This is said to be the 25 or how many anion cards the problem is more difficult to identify than or. preparing a report on the bank hole. In what way is this related to the existing coalition, so that this finding is not disclosed. What does this have to do with the coalition and the KPK? I think there's a lot of duplicity in these things. As for the conduct of the coalition in interpolation, we recently had some interpretations, one related to the conduct of Minister Cuffer when he covered the bank hole of the Factor Bank and Probank, and then the process of exhausting rich rewards and programmed liquidation was launched, saying controlled liquidation. And nothing happened. It amounted to EUR 100,200 million, which were thus lost from May to the imposition of liquidation in September. And the coalition MPs, you're dead and you've rejected this request for interpretation. We have had the case of Minister Omerzel, where it has been established on the basis of documentary evidence, even the current Chamber of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has protested against the Minister's statement that the claim is not correct because the Commission has banned business. But he made his own decision. You voted that Mr Omerzel could continue to be Minister. There is no trust, Your Honor, in your actions, because you speak one, that is to say, when you talk about transparency, you are puffed up; when we decide on transparency, you vote in a completely different way. It's totally different. If you do not agree with this, we will also provide lists of votes in laws indicating that you are acting differently. How long will it take for TES 6 to come to the table once and when it is necessary to make a decision? It is likely that there will also be certain political impacts on the decisions of the operators or those who lead this investment. They probably also had a good cover to jump from 600 million to a billion 400. Without botts, without networks, you can't do that. There's no way to do that. There's not a person in this country who could have done that she doesn't have someone in the back who gave some kind of consent and support. Even if it's the former Grand Mayor. Well, someone was, and it's not enough that he was just maybe a former mayor, who else had to be. I must say that I agree with the fact that things are transferred to an institution with regard to the control of the property situation, which gives rise to significantly greater confidence than the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in the Composition, as it was. Another question I find very questionable or very important. I ask my fellow Members, since when does the opinion of the KPK, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which is optional, weigh more than a first-degree court decision? Can anyone explain it to me? There are some lawyers here, you have spoken all you can about this opinion of the KPK, which is an optional document, like all other opinions, and it has several times more weight for you than a court decision at the first stage, which is otherwise not legal. From the point of view of the process, however, it certainly has more weight than the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption. [[advertising from the hall]] In general, Mr. Meh. Also about TES. I think there are a lot of problems with these issues. There are still many things that could draw attention to the problems associated with these things. If we mention only the statements made by Mr Popovic in connection with a company associated with a KPK member with a KPK member of the family, then much becomes clear in this country. I don't know what the basis of that statement is, whether it's true or not, it's been published. I don't know if there's any kind of procedure going on there. What's gonna happen in the end. It seems to me that this proposal we have put forward is rational. I think that the country can be effective only if it is effectively and rationally organised. A number of so-called independent institutions that are politically designated also make political decisions and also make discretionary decisions about which politicians are going to wet and which do not need such institutions in this country. They're relics of a history, and that's probably how they work. In particular, if we know that in response to the affair with the sale of Systemic Technology and that of the trade with Mr Pavčko on the manufacture of eight-wheelers and the letter of intent only to suppress this public anger, the government of Rope has set up a commission or passed the Anti-Corruption Act, which is the old law, and has established this commission. The upgrade was within the mandate of the Pahor government. Here many Members participated in the adoption of this law, which today do not know how it works and why it works so badly and why such anomalies are allowed. And such anomalies are possible, but it's what it is. And this commission has found nothing, no matter the recapitalisation of the New Bank of Maribor, that it was about any influences or other cases. If we are to have anything serious in this area, then part of the competence of this commission must be transferred elsewhere. As for the manipulation of the assets of officials, this is about 3 000 there, and I think it is best that those who want to be officials or officials publish their assets in full, to see how they progress on the property scale with functional salaries. Many of them are making progress on this scale much faster than their growths, as far as the National Assembly is concerned, with some large functional salaries. We should do this and make it happen. And if this law is rejected, then we know where we are – we return to a period of manipulation, political arbitral decisions, media manipulation. And apparently this coalition has no other ambition, no other desire than to leave the area of officials' property to the media, in large cases even to ordered media treatment, to the approaches and also to the tortures of individual officials who come from political environments that are not entirely at heart with this coalition. I'm in favour of making the assets manifest, I'm in favour of people seeing what we have, what we started with, what we have. I have no problem with this, and probably other Members of Parliament should not have these problems. If the matter is transparent, that the matter is transparent and that we have what we can say verbally, that is to say what we are able to actually do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Now I have a word with Mr Battelli. [[He's not here.]] Ms Sonja Ramšak was reported as a debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you very much, distinguished Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, those who remain in this Chamber! Today we are discussing the law, disclosure or public disclosure of the assets of officials and the transfer of control over property to the Court of Auditors. Why we support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, it has already been explained in the position I had in the introduction of this meeting. Why do you speak in this Chamber today that the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes such a solution because it wants to avenge itself on the Commission for preventing corruption? I don't know, I have no reason to retaliate against the Commission or to want to discredit the members of the Senate in any way. However, we must be aware of the fact that, in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, we are those who oversee the work of this independent body. The Authority is independent in its work, like many others, but like many other independent authorities in this country, it also has its own supervisor – and that, honourable Members and Members, we, the National Assembly, are more specific with the decision of the National Assembly; the Mandate-Election Commission. Speaking of the Slovenian Democratic Party undermining the integrity of the members of the Commission's anti-corruption Senate, I would like to point out that this is not true and I cannot agree with that. Why? Because the Anti-Corruption Commission or its Senate is actually undermining its own integrity. With what? By not respecting its system law – this is the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. What is integrity? Integrity is a complex concept that we most often associate with the field of ethics and morality, so that we can talk about the integrity of an individual, society or organisation. And speaking of integrity, this expression also means moral character, the character of unspoiled virtues, especially in relation to truth and honesty, uprightness, honesty and honesty. Integrity is also linked to uncompromising attachment, moral code or other values, with exceptional honesty, honesty and integrity; avoiding fraud, application, art or all kinds of shallowness or superficiality. Why am I saying this? In what part does the Commission not act in accordance with these principles to prevent corruption? Firstly, by failing to perform its function, which is imposed in accordance with the above-mentioned law or with its system law, which is the basis for their operation. We are talking about the fact that the Supervisor of the National Assembly and that the Commission is obliged to report to the National Assembly on its work for the past year and that this report must be forwarded to the National Assembly no later than 31 May of the current year. Is the Anti-Corruption Commission doing this? No, respectable colleagues and colleagues. From year to year, we met with a delay in the commission's intervention about our work to the overseer of the National Assembly. The Commission has not responded to repeated warnings to prevent corruption. In accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the Commission is also obliged to carry out an internal audit every three years of its activities in the field of the use of material and financial resources and personnel matters by the external audit authority. And this audit report must be sent to the President of the Republic and to the National Assembly. Is that what the commission did? No, it's not, it's not, it's respectable colleagues. I must say that I have no obstacle whatsoever to the supervision of the assets of officials being transferred to the Court of Auditors, which I believe will carry out its work professionally and not politically, as the Commission has in many cases done in order to prevent corruption. And all those who have been reminded that the Commission itself does not respect its system law are the subject of criminal complaints by the President or the Senate of the Commission. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the same criteria, all of this should apply to the members of the Senate, the President and both Vice-Presidents or Vice-Presidents. Now allow me to briefly point out other violations that cast a bad light on the Senate. And not that the Senate stepped down from some protest. I think the President of the State should have called on the Senate long ago to resign because he did not respect his Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. What else did the Commission do in its mandate? We will recall again the case mentioned by colleagues and colleagues in this Chamber several times. It is the supervision of the presidents of the parliamentary parties carried out by the KPK. Remember: As President of Positive Slovenia, Zoran Jankovic or Positive Slovenia failed to form a government on 18 January 2012, the KPK adopted a decision on the performance of an opinion on the property situation of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Commissions, of course with the tendency to focus on certain presidents. Also on the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša. However, the decision on the exercise of control states that control — and now attention is paid — is to be exercised until 30 April 2012 at the most, when the KPK Senate must also consider the final report. KPK has already fundamentally violated its own decision. The final report was not issued until January 2013, which is 8-9 months after the deadline set. The effect of the report — and we all know what it meant — meant that the government of Janez Janša had to resign or vote in confidence and put its current government and government to the position of President Alenka Bratušek. And what does it mean that she broke the law by violating her own decision? She supervised the presidents and, above all, President Janez Janša after she was no longer covered in the decision. What else did the Commission or its President and both members of the Senate do? The KPK makes it impossible for Janša to have full access to the documentation. When President Janš requested access to the documentation which was the basis for the preparation of the Commission's report, they consistently refused to do so at the KPK. And what did they do about it? That he didn't have a chance to enforce judicial protection. It did not succeed until after the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia of December 2013. Following this decision, the KPK was forced to show the documentation to Janša. And what does this record reveal? That it contains incredible 364 acts or documents. I think ten times more about the file when KPK investigated the bank hole and corruption in the banking system. The documentation provided shows a number of irregularities, illegalities, and you can see this in the media today if you want to get to know an objective picture of this matter. From the review it is easier to understand why Janša KPK unlawfully prevented access to the file until December 2013 and thus violated the fundamental constitutional right to defence – a fundamental constitutional right, respected colleagues and colleagues. So much for the integrity of KPK. Some of the indications in the KPK have been masked by a lack of lacquer prior to the submission of the documentation. It is unreasonable that the person responsible for the KPK — and apparently in haste — covered ten titles of acts with Korex’s lacquer, which are listed in sequence numbers and some even with annexes. In the KPK, these data were simply deleted, covered, and apparently destroyed. Doesn't that remind you of any other destruction? To the methods used by the Ascension. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, I must warn you of this. It is also clear from these documents that the KPK unlawfully checked the assets even after 30 April, which I have already mentioned, although it did not issue any decision for this period. We can draw parallels when the same KPC said that the State Assembly's Mandate-Election Commission was illegally and without a decision to obtain documentation when it came to the property situation of the President of the Commission. Let me get on with it. Moreover, the KPK unlawfully continued to verify President Janez Janša's assets situation after 7 January 2013 and did so at least until 2 January 2014, even though it had no decision to do so. So much for the integrity and incompetence of the Commission itself to prevent corruption. I don't want my assets and me to be investigated and demolished by a public commission that doesn't have integrity. I have nothing to hide. I don't have any assets, I have a minus on the bank, and I'm not afraid of her control. However, I am afraid of the way in which it is going in the public direction to cause all the officials to be corrupt, to be corrupt; and it can have the power to dismiss the Prime Minister of the Government or the government that wanted to successfully remedy the situation in this country. I support this law, which we have put into the legislative procedure – the Law on the Publicity of Officials' Property. I see nothing controversial, nothing unconstitutional in this; but if there is anything unconstitutional about the transfer of powers to the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court should decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I think there's been a lot of talk. Sometimes we feel like no one's looking at us, and that's not how it is. Someone just asked me and said this: let me explain why it would be better to transfer control over the assets of the KPK officials to the Court of Auditors. While I was talking about it in the introduction, I can see that this person offered me the same answer. On the Anti-Corruption Commission, from which, after this proposal, we withdraw control of the official's assets and transfer it to the Court of Auditors, who is employed. If you take a good look at how education people who work there have, you'll see that it's mainly about social science, right here and there. There are very few people, or almost nothing, who are engaged and who have economic oz. financial education. So these people are checking the assets of the officials, and at the same time we have more or less fully converted personnel in the Court of Auditors. A person who is familiar with the finances, a person who is familiar with the audits, and who would obviously do these tasks much better than the Commission to prevent corruption. Otherwise, it is not good that this debate is thus concluded. I am very sorry that even after all this time, and we still have some time, I have not received an answer to the fundamental question that I have asked the Secretary of State. So what has changed — I repeat. I love to say it again, but you know it. On this same chair, Mrs Kresalova sat in 2010 and I spoke three numbers at the time, 136 minus 125 is eleven, to give in her pocket. I mean, to put Mr. Pogacar in his pocket, and then no one wanted to hear about it, and today there are legal proceedings. This situation is not comparable today. However, I don't know how many times I've been asking what's going on between 2006 and now that the drafter of the law, who at the time was substantively supporting the same law, is no longer in favour of this. I'm talking about your minister. If such a solution was a good solution then there is no reason why this solution would not be a good solution today. There's no reason for that. And at the end of this debate I can draw one conclusion for my soul or myself, for the coalition it is very difficult because almost no one is in the hall, and this is the next. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission corresponds to this government, which is in power, in fact, the Commission to prevent corruption to this government in some way, would say, by the church. This Commission has created this government with its products, and this Commission, with its non-products, reads airline tickets, holds this government together. According to local words, as a parable, Mr Klemenčič, with his super klebler glue, is a guarantee of the survival of this government until 2015, because with his work which he does not do, he guarantees this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Since I see that we have some time left, even though all of the debaters reported have ended, I ask, would anyone else like to discuss? Yes, I will also open the way for discussion in accordance with Article 71, paragraph 1. I'm asking you to sign up. We have three more panellists to report. As the first Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u150	Why did I call again? I am looking at social networks and it says: The government has adopted a programme of measures to prevent, detect and prosecute corruption. The government has adopted a programme – fine. At the National Assembly today, we are hearing from coalition Members that this topic is irrelevant, this topic is ideological, and we are talking about it because we do not have more intelligent work and we are not talking about more important things. As far as darkness is concerned. For the government this is obviously top topic and it will probably be this top news on all Slovenian published media within an hour. But when the SDS starts talking about corruption, it's a stark topic, and it's a stark topic that's being talked about by those who say it's a lame topic. Why are they talking about a subject they think is lame? Indeed, we do not need such discussions in the National Assembly! Second of all, do government representatives and coalition MPs ever listen to each other? Here you are saying that the topic is irrelevant, but the Minister of the Interior is adopting a programme of measures to prevent, detect and prosecute corruption. You're making a fool out of all of us, not just the opposition – from the whole Slovenian public. And you say one thing and the other thing you do. And interestingly, secondly, how ideological this topic is. If the law on corruption or public property of officials proposes the SDS, it is an ideological topic; when Mr Virant speaks of corruption and public property of officials, it is a top topic for which we are all fighting and thus there will probably be no more corruption, because it is enough to take a programme of measures to prevent, detect and prosecute corruption, and we will all be happy to applaud. What a duplicity, respected and respected. That's ideology? When he says something about SDS, it's ideology, and when he says one thing and apparently the only saving non-comruptive minister in this country, we all applaud? Let's be serious. And third, why don't we talk about something more important? Your Honor, I've been looking at the government's websites, at the previous government meeting, and at this government meeting, do you know how many laws you've passed? Or have government officials accepted them? Zero. And then about us, the SDS, who are proposing laws that interfere with the acorns, economic laws and laws, such as preventing corruption, you're saying we're doing shit and doing some stupid things. Your Honor, why don't you put together some kind of bill? I believe that the DeSUS Members probably don't even — with all due respect — know this because they are always in coalition and the government is preparing laws for them, and they are just pressing what government representatives say to them. Please, the right marriage is what's in front of us. Perhaps not 100% complete, but far more complete than the three-quarters of the laws that it makes, so that no mistake will be made by any government. You can be an opposition or coalition MP when the government's proposals come in, it's full of mistakes. Legislative and legal services are killed through a procedure to eventually, together with them through amendments, prepare as many life laws as possible. Another interesting thing about this law is that the vast majority of those institutions that immediately come forward when it comes to corruption are silent today. We have only one letter from the Slovenian institution before us, and this is the Council of Justice, where they say: "As regards your request for an opinion, we inform you that the Council of Justice on the Proposal for a Law on the Publicity of Officials has no comments." Etablished and dedicated officials through various bodies are very quiet. Why? Because they cannot reject the law because it would be anti-European; but if they support it, it is, of course, contrary to their standards, which they say, whatever the SDS proposes – it is stupid, it is unrelated, it is ideological, etc. Please, there is so much talk about how we have to work, work and cooperate, and then you make a fool not only of the opposition, but of the entire Slovenian public when you press the opposite of what you say. Listen a little, and work a little among your Members among the government, and the work will be easier for us opposition Members, and we will support any good suggestions you make when you move them to the National Assembly. Bring them in, but they're gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u152	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! I'd say the government is a phenomenal and excellent cleaning service. Very well, very skillfully, very effectively sweeps up all its irregularities and also the irregularities of the past on the basis of the legal basis under the carpet. For all those who don't say gelipter business, acts that have happened in the past and in the present. If I go in line, the current government has closed the archives to hide and not come to the day with all the responsibilities, irregularities and practices that have occurred in the past. Yesterday we witnessed the closure of transparency, taking responsibility in the banking system for the allocation of such and other suspicious loans. Yes, the government advocates that this matter is not transparent or that it is covered and swept under carpets. Today we are witnessing that the government absolutely does not agree to show transparency in the assets of officials. We're talking about government officials, government officials, and it's only right that their assets show up. In my opinion, not only does it show up, but it is also necessary to identify the source of the assets for an official who does not have a good basis or who has a suspicious acquisition of the property. This is also lacking in this law, in my opinion. So there's a great government power supply, the carpet is getting thicker, more and more things need to be put under the carpet, of course, and people need to say, yeah, because everything in the country is fine, there's no irregularity. Previously it was said that the government speaks one language and does another. I'd say the government doesn't do one or the other, doesn't do or speak. My criterion that I see, the government's success is in action, it's in reality, it's what happens in practice, what happens to people and what people experience. This is the conclusion of a work, a government mission. And this mission doesn't come to people. There are many words that are lost between these chairs, between the walls of the National Assembly; to people, our citizens do not come or act in the opposite direction, such as our mission. You can't live off the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you very much. That is how we came to the end of the debate and I conclude it. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Thursday, 6 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Act on Amendments to the Act on Back, Flag and Hymn Republics of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National Flag in the First Defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill, Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u154	Dearly beloved everyone, also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! At the 100th anniversary of his birth, Mr Boris Pahor received a high award from European citizens. He was an active anti-fascist, a human rights fighter his whole life and declared himself a leftist. He points out, as a legacy of his great work for the Slovenes, for Slovenia and Slovenia, that there is a weakness in the national anthem of Slovenia, because we now have a law in force, which, as an anthem, provides only a seventh kit, which is highly internationalistically colored, and that such an anthem is not in line with European principles and that such an anthem is far from norm and from what Slovenia needs in a united Europe. It also warns that the current use of the anthem is contrary to what our great France Prešeren, who is the author of Zdravjevica, has put his people before what the seventh kitula now defines. Therefore, Mr Boris Pahor has long been a citizen of Europe, as a human rights fighter, as an anti-fascist, suggests that we define Health as a reduced form of second and seventh kitica, in this order and together. This is also a proposal covered by our law. In particular, we note that the law now in force is clearly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states unequivocally in its Article 6 that the hymna of Slovenia is a Zdravljavica, called Health as a whole. We once proposed this solution, and then we listened to a lot of comments, so that the healer would be as a whole if we played it too long. Everyone who, I hope, has seen a sporting event at the time of the last Olympics, which was just completed, has noticed what happened there. When the flag was lifted, Slovenian Zdravica had to be played twice because it is simply too short in its current form to be able to raise the flag properly on high drugs when playing the Slovenian anthem in one part, and they had to repeat it twice. I hope that after this has happened and you all and the world can see it with you on TV, no one will claim that the healer would be as long as the whole. This is far from the truth, especially if we compare it with solutions in other countries. Like the Italian anthem, which consists of five kitties, each has a refrenes, which also have ten lines. Watch out, each one is sung twice, and it is fully used. We therefore propose that, as a principle, what is laid down in the Constitution be defined, that the law be in conformity with the Constitution and that it become by law as it is under the Constitution – the hymna of Slovenia The Health Agency as a whole. The law also allows for a reduced form, in the form proposed by author Boris Pahor, in the second and seventh kitica, played together. In addition, the law proposes something that is essential for Slovenia — once and for all the public enlargement of all the symbols of totalitarian regimes, such as fascism, national socialism, or the reduction of Nazism as communism. Because that's the only principle that's European. This is also in line with the European Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which has been unanimously endorsed by all Members from the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament. Unfortunately, in the Slovenian Parliament at the time, it was not possible for them to adopt it here, but all of them, in turn, argued with all the political parties that this resolution was binding on them. Now it's about transferring it to the law and banning the public magnification of all totalitarian symbols, all totalitarian regimes and all holders of totalitarian authority. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] for Slovenia. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Renati Zatler, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag, the applicants state that the law in force is clearly inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. They state that the Constitution lays down, as an anthem, the entire Presbyterian as an hymn, in the third paragraph of Article 6. The draft law in Article 1 provides that the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia is a poem by Francet Prešerna Zdravlica, for a melody from the choral composition of the composer Stank Premrl. Furthermore, the bill provides that the anthem is fully implemented at the national celebrations, at the national festivals of the Republic of Slovenia, and on other occasions it can also be used in a reduced form, covering the second and seventh verses of the song. The bill redefines that any public expression of ideas through or through totalitarian symbols is stated, and a fine is also prescribed for breach of the provision. The bill also substantially increases the fines for all prescribed offences. The Government does not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag, explaining: The Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag is in accordance with the Constitution. The Anthem of the Republic of Slovenia provides for the Constitution in Article 6. However, the Constitution must also be interpreted by constitutional practices that are formulated in practice over time and with a certain social consensus. By repeated repetition of certain practices, constitutional customs can come into play as a source of constitutional regulation. In particular, it is worth mentioning that the flag exchange was also carried out at the ceremony on the independence of Slovenia and that the seventh kitula of Prešernovo Zdravljica was used as an anthem. This was then finally established in more than 20 years of country history when such anthem is being carried out at all official, public and festivities. A valid constitutional custom in the Slovenian constitutional system is that the Slovenian national anthem is the seventh kitula of Prešernovo Zdravljica. Since the bill provides for the full implementation of the hymn, the proposal stipulates that this is necessary at the national celebrations and at the national holidays of the Republic of Slovenia, it is also necessary to regulate how to act when the hymn is performed only by means of music. In this case, the government is of the opinion that the hymn could not have been performed eight times, as many times as it has. If, in this case, an exception was accepted that, in the case of music, the tunes do not repeat themselves eight times, it is possible to expect that hymns from then on would be performed mainly with music, for a simple reason, because all 8 kits are performance-sensitively too long, thus certainly not achieving the intended purpose of the applicant. The Government considers the sanctions proposed by the proposer to be more than harsh, unreasonable and disproportionate. Some of the lower limits of penalties are also increased to eighteen times the applicable penalty. In cases where the use of State symbols is not compulsory, excessively dissuasive sanctions could result in reduced use of state symbols, which is contrary to the strengthening of the value of patriotism cited by the proposer as a positive consequence of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Hršak will be the first to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice President, Honourable Secretary of State, Dear colleagues and colleagues! The novel of the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian National flag was discussed and decided by the National Assembly in 2011. The amendments to the Act were not adopted at the time, and the novices were Members of the SDS Group today. If we compare the two proposals, we find that there is no significant difference between them, except for the addition in today's proposal of decisions prohibiting totalitarian symbols. In the DeSUS Group, we ask why do you feel that if a law with virtually the same provisions was not adopted three years ago, it will be adopted today? The SDS Group is based on the initiative of Boris Pahor, one of the most prominent Slovenian academics, poets and writers in explanation of the amendment. Mr Pahor for the anthem did not propose the entire Zdravica as the proponents mistakenly put it, but suggested that the new text of the Slovenian anthem would consist of the third and fourth verses of the second feline and from the first four verses of the seventh verse of Prešernová Zdravica. It says: "God our land, God lives all the Slovenian world. Let all the nations that long for the day live, that where the sun goes forth, the quarrel shall be banished from the world." In this case, there would be problems with the melody, which could be avoided by setting a second and seventh kitica for the hymn. In the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we ask what to change over 20 years of tradition. The applicants answer because the Slovenian anthem currently does not reflect the value of patriotism, which is an extremely important value, for which there is a consensus in Slovenian politics. By changing the text of the hymn, we will actually contribute to greater patriotism among young people. It is really only necessary to raise the national awareness of the Slovenian people. I'm afraid not. Instead of one, young people will not feel greater loyalty to Slovenian culture, Slovenian language or Slovenian people. Until this year's Winter Olympics in our country, it has long been impossible to feel Slovenian national consciousness. The extraordinary achievements of our athletes have connected us, and many were once again proud to be Slovenian. But the fact is, the Slovenian state has disappointed its own people. She took away the safety of the older generations and the younger ones' opportunity and hope for a better tomorrow. Slovenian policy is the one that, by protecting its own interests, corruption and inability to participate in citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, wiped out the sense of national consciousness. The fact is that the change in the text of the Slovenian anthem will not contribute to the rise of patriotism among Slovenians, so we do not support the Democratic Party of Pensioners in the Group of Members. The bill also redefines that any public expression of ideas through or through totalitarian symbols is strictly prohibited and must be strictly sanctioned. We do not agree with this in the DeSUS Group because, as Jože Vogrinc wrote somewhere, I quote: "The symbols themselves mean nothing but the acts of those who bear them give meaning to them. Those who ordered the postwar killings were the red star, the sickle, and the hammer. There is no reason, however, for both symbols to be proud of those who fought for freedom and a more just society. The symbols are not totalitarian, the totalitarian are those who, on behalf of their truth, deny other rights to their truth." End of quote. Let me add the following. Last March, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg ruled that wearing a red star is not a crime but a fundamental human freedom. The decision was taken by the court on the basis of a complaint by a Hungarian citizen who was persecuted in his home country for wearing a Communist symbol. In the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia on the basis of this, we believe that the prohibition of totalitarian symbols would limit the human right to freedom of expression. For we must not forget that the freedom of an individual ends where the freedom of a fellow human being begins. As is likely to be understood from our point of view, we will not support the bill in the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! I am embarrassed, it is difficult today and at this moment to talk about the national anthem, about the coat of arms, about the flag, when I am under the influence of the European Commission's renewed warning, which is pushing me to the ground. The government doesn't act, second time. Slovenia alone is a Member State of the European Union, which received a second warning, nothing is happening. Macroeconomic imbalances are not being addressed and so on. Yes, the national symbols include the flag, the coat of arms and the anthem. These state symbols convey the recognition of a country, are chosen on the basis of historical facts, or are born out of human tradition and tradition, and point to the nationality of the nation. With their message value, they instill in the nation self-confidence in the state. The Council, however, is represented by the uniqueness and unity of the State, the people and the people. It is for these reasons that the identification of state symbols is raised in the highest legal act of the individual country. This is also the case in the Republic of Slovenia. Article 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines the coat of arms, defines the flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. The hymna of the Republic of Slovenia is Zdravica. The Law on coat of arms, flag and anthem and on the Slovenian National flag provides for the use of state symbols. As for the hymn, it is stipulated that it represents the text of the seventh kit of Prešeren's Zdravica on the text and the strings of Stank Premrl. As I have already pointed out in the introduction, the anthem with its message value must arouse national ownership of the State. Our greatest poet, Prešeren, wrote as a praise to his country and its inhabitants. Only the seventh kitica of Zdravljica, and also according to the Christian Democrats, underemphasizes the belongings of the Slovenian people. Therefore, it is a reflection on the amendment of the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian national flag in place. This problem has been pointed out several times by the famous Slovenian writer from the substitute, whom we really have not come to appreciate in recent years – Mr Boris Pahor. He stressed, "there are no Slovenians mentioned in the Slovenian anthem". He cited this as proof that the Slovenians do not appreciate themselves. He stressed that the hymn was an important issue of Slovenian national consciousness, a natural and positive sense of belonging to a nation that must be emphasized in the hymn. So Boris Pahor is going to be attached. The seventh kitica of Prešernovo Zdravljica does not mention the Slovenian people or Slovenia, so it is suggested that the second and seventh kitten of Prešernovo Zdravljica be declared Slovenian anthem, entirely in place. The Slovenian anthem must certainly mention Slovenian people and Slovenia. And that's what the other cat says. "To whom first a merry toast, brothers! As soon as we are again, God our land, God lives all the Slovenian world. "Brother all we are, sons of the glorious mother." Therefore, we support Christian Democrats in their work, which stipulates that the Slovenian anthem is the second and seventh feat of Prešernovo Zdravljica, by amending the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian National flag. With regard to the proposal for full implementation of all eight kitties at the national celebrations and holidays of the Health Agency, we would suggest further reflection. But not for ideological reasons, but for practical reasons. The implementation of all eight kitties is too long and often difficult to implement. State celebrations are often held outdoors, in different weather conditions and in different performances. The new law also prohibits the promotion of totalitarianism — Nazism, fascism, national socialism and communism — and the prohibition of the use of state symbols in connection with these totalitarianisms. We welcome these proposed solutions to the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, because it seems appropriate for us to clearly define and express our attitude towards all totalitarianism. This homework has long been carried out by the European peoples. For all the reasons listed above, Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian National flag.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u162	Your Honor! The motions for the amendment of the law, the SDS Group of Members, have been partially followed before the time of the proposal made by author Boris Pahor to complete the hymn with the second kitica. They themselves propose that the law should define the entire Medici as an anthem and only as an anthem in short form would be carried out the second and seventh kitties. In their explanations for the proposed changes, they stress and highlight the importance of respect for patriotic values, which is most reflected in the second kitica of Health, while they believe that the seventh kit is too internationalistic and therefore, in terms of values, patriotism is not comparable to other anthems. In doing so, we cannot overlook the opinion of the experts, as well as of the preshernosts, who explain that the poet in the second verse addresses all the Slavic peoples and stresses Slovenian internationalism, so we do not fully understand the SDS's message to the seventh kitica. The seventh kitica of the anthem, which is now disputed by the SDS party, was also determined by SDS Members in the law in force. At that time, they had another S, since in 1994 the Internal Political Committee, which was preparing the law, was headed by a member of the SDSS – Vitodrag Pukl. We find it difficult to accept the argument of SDS President John Janša that someone has flouted it in the text unless the smuggling is being accused by the entire committee and its president. We also find it questionable to implement the entire Health Care in terms of duration. There would probably also be a problem in its instrumental implementation. It is likely that the applicants did not consult the Institute of Musicology of the SAZU Scientific Research Centre, which provided a notary record of Zdravica at the time of the adoption of the law. The law in force was supposed to be unconstitutional, as the applicants noted in 2011 when they first introduced an amendment to the law, although the Constitutional Court did not decide on it; the SDS did not even give an initiative to assess the constitutionality. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we are convinced that we do not change the symbols every day, but especially because of the daily political needs. National symbols are usually exchanged in the face of major breakthroughs, changes in social arrangements, and this is probably not happening to us today. Last but not least, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out in its opinion, it would be expected to hold a broad public debate before the law is introduced, to obtain opinions from citizens, experts and, on this basis, to decide on the need for any changes. And this ignorance of the opinion of fellow citizens and professions can also be seen in the SDS proposal to prohibit the public use of symbols of so-called totalitarian regimes, which is a ban on the symbol of the star. Of course, it means the red star. According to the motioners, this is a symbol of JLA and a communist terror, which must be carried out quickly. In this way, the SDS would simply get rid of the Ensigns at state celebrations because they consider them to be the symbol of the occupying army. And who really is involved in the celebrations? Flags of the NOB Association of Fighters are present, not flags or signs of JLA. The banners of the Union of Fighters have a sign that, in accordance with their statutes, expresses the symbols of the national liberation struggle, the Slovenian national flag, Triglav, Jadran, the liberation front, the star, the lime leaves and the year 1941-1945. The proposaler shall be prohibited in accordance with European civilisation values, values and cultural standards. At the same time, they are completely forgetting or consciously ignoring that in 2008 the European Court of Human Rights had already attached to Hungarian Workers' Party politicians that the red star did not symbolize the totalitarian regime. On the basis of this judgment, the Hungarian Constitutional Court also amended its decision. The Red Star is a symbol of liberation from fascism, a symbol of partisanism. For most Slovenian people, it is a symbol of freedom and resistance against Nazi invaders and their collaborators in 1941-1945. Moreover, the vast majority of the Primors, from which I come myself, are identified by a red star. This symbol is also associated with the roots of Slovenian statehood, and you do not think I am speaking of it. According to the results of the Slovenian public opinion, most polled from independence to today see the main power of the partisan struggle to ensure the survival of the national community. A positive attitude towards the word Slovenian partisans has also been strengthened over the years, which raises the belief that the Slovenian partisan army was authentic. 65.5% in 1995 and 69% in 2012 – this was said in surveys. On the question raised in the survey of the Slovenian public opinion in 2005 and 2007, whether we Slovenians can be proud of our role in this victory or not, the assessment that this victory is the basis for pride is absolutely predominant. Remember what the partisans swore at that time. To give all their powers and abilities the liberating things of the Slovenian people, the working people, and all the advanced and freed humanity in the world of war against the fascist oppressors. Not to put the weapons down until the complete victory over the fascist invader and to the full realization of the great liberation goal of the Slovenian people. If necessary, they will also sacrifice their lives for their people. I wonder if this oath is not the highest possible reflection of the values of patriotism. That the value of patriotism is an extremely important value, there is a consensus in Slovenian politics, the proponents themselves have also written. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we will not support the amendment of the law and we will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Tomaž Lisec will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u164	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues present! On the days before February 8th, when we celebrate the Slovenian cultural holiday in honour and memory of our great Slovenian poet and author of the Slovenian anthem, Francet Prešerna, we tabled in the SDS a proposal or amendment of the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem. So we introduced the law at a time when the hymns were supposed to sing or play even more solemnly when we were full of mouths about Slovenian symbols, about our history, about our country, about patriotism, our nation and so on. But when we introduced the amendment of the law into the SDS, it started to fall down again to create ideology. That due to the natural disaster that has taken place in a large part of the country and in general due to the poor financial, economic, social and I do not know why or the situation is wrong. Maybe there's some explanation for the introduction. First time. The SDS isn't responsible for the natural disaster. We are accused of a lot of things, and we are likely to be responsible for this natural disaster. But in the wake of this natural disaster, we were among the first to express our support for the people in the affected areas and for all those who have eliminated the effects of the plagues. By the way, at the time the ministers took pictures on the ground, we prepared a proposal for intervention measures. Twenty-six Members and a dozen experts had previously prepared proposals for intervention laws or measures that, as it turned out later, were more comprehensive. In our view, they would be more effective than the measures that this government has subsequently prepared worse with the entire team of state and state services. Another time. So far, the SDS has supported all smart measures in all areas that would take the path of finding the answers that the financial, economic and social picture in the country puts before us. But unfortunately, these measures are not enough to fight. The SDS also prepared its measures, which were always rejected without justification only because it was the SDS's proponent. Let's just take a look at this meeting of the National Assembly. Of the 12 laws, three are treated as SDS proposals. Seven are indeed governmental, and some are just editorial changes, and only four can be considered content laws. However, two draft laws are of civil society. In the view of the SDS, these two would have a more positive impact on the Slovenian economy and on health – that is, on an acute topic in our country – than all government proposals combined. Interesting. No law was adopted at the previous government meeting and at the current government meeting. No marriage! So much for who cares about what in our country, whether it is the economy, young people, corruption or Slovenian consciousness and Slovenian symbols. And the third time, for the introduction. If the proposed novels of the Law on coat of arms, flag, hymns at the time of the cultural holiday and the fact that we are following the solutions that have already been tried by the author of the Law on coat of arms or Zdravić, we all know – a prominent academic, Slovenian poet and writer – at the time of his 100th birthday even the recipient of the European Nationals Award – and that we follow the solutions that touch the Constitution of Slovenia, if it is an ideology, then it should be respected. And by this ideology, there's probably going to be a lot of manure today. A populist rhetoric that today tries to reject a bill that will not agree that we can make the law even more viable through further consideration is rejected. Let us go in order — from the hymn over the coat of arms to the flag, in substance. Hymna, the first of its objectives is to implement the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the Constitution. We do not eliminate unconstitutionality, but we just want the law to be in accordance with the Constitution. This part of the changes in the SDS was proposed two years ago. It is a provision that the law, in accordance with the Constitution, as an anthem of our country, defines the Health Care. The hymna is supposed to take its constitutional form, i.e. the whole, on all Slovenian festive occasions, and compulsory at State celebrations at the national festivals of the Republic of Slovenia. So it is mandatory to perform the entire hymn at the national celebrations at the national holidays of the Republic of Slovenia. About 4-5 minutes, several times a year. As long as we stand and sit without connection, the problem is now four minutes of listening to the hymn of the Republic of Slovenia, even though it is only a fitting performance. "So what?" At about two hours or more of the state celebrations, the problem is another three and four minutes? Sir, if there's no problem, this government and this government coalition will always find him. The government's opinion on this law is essentially something. In the sense that something has been introduced, it has become a practice and it is not possible to change that. Your Honor, it's just a little bit of will. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is clear. The hymna of the Republic of Slovenia is Zdravica. Not the first, not the second, not the third, not the last. The hymna of the Republic of Slovenia is Zdravica. More specifically, this is the law that is before us. In the SDS, we are aware that in some cases the implementation of the entire Medici could cause problems, such as the implementation of sports events, especially those abroad, and therefore there is a possibility of using in a shorter form, which includes the second and seventh pixie of this song. In short form, the anthem shall be permissible only if carried out in the following sequence. First of all, it's the whole second kit, followed by the whole seventh kittie. With this we follow the ideas of France Prešern, Boris Pahor and the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Boris Pahor suggests that, as an anthem of the Republic of Slovenia, when it is not possible to perform the entire Health Care Unit together, the second and seventh kits will perform together, as only such performance will follow the values of Prešerna, which in the Health Department, on a rhetorical question, puts our country Slovenia first. All the nations that the hymn, because of the current legal order, only emphasizes, have placed the poet in his order much lower and appear only in the seventh verse of the song. The current internationalistly colored performance, following the warnings of this great man and the rights fighter of the Slovenians and fundamental human rights, is not by any chance what we all want. Dear colleagues, colleagues, one of the Slovenians has not seen one of the two opportunities offered by our champion Tina Maze at the Olympic Games in Sochi at least once in a direct transmission or on several occasions. I'm sure there's been a lot of tears of happiness and pride in playing the anthem. This anthem has turned twice. One whale twice. Because one whale is too short or too fast to be in line with a solemn flag - lift ceremony. And why would he double-strap the seventh kitish if, with pride and in harmony with the idea of Frances Prešern and Boris Pahor, he could sing the second bouquet to whom the happy toast of the brothers would have been first! Let's do it again. God lives the whole Slovenian world and so on. [[…]] And then the seventh kitt, which celebrates not only us and our lands, but all nations. We're wondering what's blasphemous here. Maybe it's too patriotic? Perhaps in honor of our champion Tina could also sing the fifth bouquet, which says God lives you Slovenes. But at this solemn moment, such as the stuck anthem and the raised Slovenian flag at the Olympics, some found the problem. The Slovenians found the problem, they found the problem. And there's even been an official complaint about what the organizers are doing. Such an action can only be expected from those who want, know, and want to do harm and do nothing about Slovenia because their ideology has remained south at another time, but they obviously want it back. If anyone doesn't know what or who I'm talking about - I'm talking about those who are making fun of all the Slovenian values and symbols. At the same time, they magnify the symbols of totalitarian regimes. A terrifying scene in the middle of Europe, where Europe is grappling with thieves. And that's what's standing up, and that's in 2013. And here's the answer, who and why they won't support this marriage. Those who want to bring back time. And they are working in all areas to return to the times of the even and odd days, the shortages, the fears, and probably many more, as we are younger – we have been fortunate that we have not experienced to the full. Yes, voting on this law will show who on the one hand wants Slovenia with all its values and symbols, and who opposes it. Or who's going forward, or who wants to go back. Following the introduction of the new law, we have been warned by a civil initiative on two other facts, probably unknown to many. For the first time, that the title of the song or hymn is wrong, that it is not the Medici, but the Zdravica; and that there is another bouquet, which the previous regime did not like, even though part of the kit was changed more in terms of the socialist and communist system. Apparently, she was too advanced, too Slovenian, too patriotic. It is said – Let the sweet bonds bind you to our generation, make laws in it, that never again shall the daughters of the children be new, nor shall the sons of the children be new enemies. May God all that is between us live together. The top cat, but it's obviously too Slovenian and patriotic, just like the other cat. And she just took off or got lost. There were also other proposals on other songs than the anthems of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposals of Aussen's, and almost born of Slovenia, from where your beauty is, to the old Next Flag of Glory. Regarding the coat of arms, we do not deal with the law, although we were familiar with the problem of the coat of arms with the so-called coded system, where we are once again a unique person in Slovenia. Flag. Today, there will be no debate and the purpose of this law is not to replace red with green, such as the call in recent days has been overrun by social networks. Even though thinking may not be wrong. But someone made a mistake at the beginning of Slovenia's creation. These were the ones who forced the coat of arms in the form we have, who proposed the hymn in the form we have, and the flag in the form and colors we have. Today, however, there is likely to be a debate on another substantively important topic, and this has already been presented, which is likely to come across a stormy response and also a flag. No, it's not about lustration, it's just a matter of consent for all patriots. We are talking about patriots and not extremists, as the Slovenian public wants to convince the current government policy through the tabulated media. This consensus should not be questionable, for for the first time, we are setting clear frameworks for banning the public magnification of all totalitarian regimes, all of them! Or the use of their representatives and symbols, i.e. not symbols of left or right extremes, but of all totalitarian symbols. We should all support that. They will probably be against only those who mark the election of the Slovenian flag with right-wing extremism. The amendment of the law also further prohibits the use of the Slovenian anthem, coat of arms or flag in conjunction with the above mentioned totalitarian symbols or their representatives. We add an exception, however, that these two prohibitions do not apply only for the purposes of education, in accordance with the educational programme, information, cultural events and museum collections. Since the current law, which has been in force since 1994, also has this flaw in the fact that criminal provisions define penalties still in tolars, that is, in a currency that is no longer in circulation, we turn the penalty into euro and add criminal provisions to prohibit the public exaggeration of all totalitarian regimes and their representatives and symbols. And only a mere call to the government: fines are less radical than fines in all the laws that this government brings and where it frightens Slovenians and Slovenes with huge fines. And the government didn't even touch it with a sentence, which makes sense. If the government wants to follow its agenda, this part of the law would be broken in its opinion. But she is probably afraid to see it beyond the borders of our country, because it is a derogation from European standards, and this would show her ideological roots. If you'd agreed, you'd have given us the benefit of the doubt, which we'll probably never see again. That is why the government is smartly quiet in this area and wants to get the law out of the agenda as soon as possible. Only individual champions today, for the sake of satisfaction, will inform their electorate of the pus under this law. So the law is not an ideological party, but a law that follows the ideas of France Prešern, Boris Pahor and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The ideological theme is, according to SDS, the closing of archives, which is a major part of Slovenian policy. We are responding to this ideological policy with the last possible means, with a request for a referendum and a halt to another ideological madness, particularly the left-hand part of the political field, which is still searching for an internal enemy through such ideology. For this government, there's obviously a lot of other things ideologically if it doesn't grow on their herbs. Interestingly, also the Hemp Act and the Self-Healing Act have attributed some of the coalition's types to an ideological and cultural struggle, all in terms of who is not with us is against us. But there will be no mistake, and we hope to avoid it today. Today when we talk about Slovenia, about Slovenians, in the SDS we want to talk about all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of nationality. However, we want to make it clear: if anyone does not fit in Slovenia, regardless of his nationality, that we are part of Europe, no one is convincing him to go away. I'll probably take it with the extreme if I say I got an e-mail address where someone said to me, "Warn me that airline, rail and road connections take both north and south, west and east." Domesticism is a part of every nation, of every country, only of us in Slovenia, only two million of us, and apparently some of us want to be ashamed of it. We are also European specialties here. Until then, we will be prisoners of the past regime and we will have to be ashamed of our own countries, our own anthems, our own coat of arms and our own flags. They may not be the most beautiful and the best; but at some point they are still ours. In the SDS, we believe that the proposal is an excellent basis for an expert discussion in the follow-up to the adoption of legislation. We do know, however, that there will be an ideological response in the case of opposers. To conclude, we thank all those who have given us support and all those who have opened up the issues that this bill does not cover – flag colour, coat of arms, which in our view are too professional and must be put to public debate first and then identified. To all advocates of totalitarian symbols and their bearers and to all who despise Slovenian symbols and values, we say – enough is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The following is the position of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats: Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! I am aware that the views of the parliamentary groups do not discriminate. What I'm about to say is not a controversy, but just my resentment and my opposition to someone coming out of this country. This was once said, in another place, and we have grown older, avoided it, and also prevented persecution from taking place on our own earth. It's rude, it's rude and it's unacceptable. A more politicized and ideological position than could be heard, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u167	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u168	cannot be established. [[…]] No matter what, nothing is surprising or new. The law, which interferes with one of the state symbols and requires its amendment, is not introduced for the first time. In the near past, however, we have also witnessed the persecution of banners with celebrations without the legal basis and without any broader consensus. That we had four kittens of anthem and some other characteristics. My last experience with the celebration, which I organised as Chairman of the Committee on Culture, was that the National Assembly sent the elementary school to sing the second and seventh songs as an anthem. From the National Assembly, please, from the state institution. But that's how it is. And that day, there was also a marriage. In fact, this law repeats what the Slovenian Democratic Party has already tabled as a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. It does apply mainly to an anthem, but another provision on the use of totalitarian symbols is linked to an anthem. Then I'll tell you how. Why cannot this proposal be supported? First, I'm going to focus on the issue of the anthem. My opinion touches the bill on three levels: firstly, hymns at the level of the symbol, secondly, hymns at the legal level, and thirdly, the relationship between hymn and Prešeren’s Health. In the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the anthem is mentioned in the introductory chapter of the general provision and together with the flag and coat of arms represents a symbol of the Slovenian state. The basic characteristic of each symbol is its durability. For just by its immutableness, it is possible to take root as a symbol of a community that is generally acceptable and therefore accept its appearance as self-evident. The hymna creates an individual's identity with the country, strengthens the individual's civic consciousness and promotes the individual's emotional relationship with the community he belongs to. That is why any intervention in changing the hymn as a symbol must be thoughtful and generally acceptable. The specific requirements relating to the implementation of the anthem should also be taken into account. In particular, I would like to point out that it has been possible to detect the offer or request for amendment of either the flag, or the coat of arms or anthems, and that such changes have always been opposed by the majority public opinion. However, in some circles such a requirement is strengthened because it is cultivated, but it is understood in itself. Although the proposed amendment and amendment of the law is based on the initiative of a respected Slovenian writer, it is not verified in the Slovenian professional and interested public. In our view, however, it should be due in particular to the fact that the anthem and its implementation have an appropriate legal basis. Also based on intervention in authentic Prešeren text. In fact, the proposed law takes into account only one, which is the textual dimension of the anthem. Therefore, the relationship between the instrumental and vocal execution of the anthem is not affected and does not take into account the time needed to complete the whole, it is an osmotic anthem. The hymn thus loses its original meaning and weakens its symbolic value. If you go to calculate how long an anthem, all 8 kitties, would last – it will be about seven minutes to seven and a half minutes, depending also on the pace with which the anthem is performed. As for the instrumental execution of the anthem, who knows which text is meant if the hymn is only in instrumental execution. The proposed amendment and amendment of the law states that the law in force is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and its claim is based on the third paragraph of Article 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, "the anthem of Slovenia is Zdravljica". The claim is based only on this paragraph. However, it does not take into account paragraph 4 which leaves the use of coat of arms, flags and anthems to the law. This law was also sent for constitutional review and the initiative was rejected. The first law, which established the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia, was unanimously adopted on 29 March 1990 and the law took a decision on Health as an anthem, as recorded in the 1974 amendment to the 1974 Constitution, adopted on 27 September 1989. Before the adoption of the law, a discussion was held, opinions were obtained from the professional public on the text and the melody and a legislative decision was taken on the basis of a majority opinion. The Constitution has therefore merely summarized what has already been legalized, taking into account the law in Article 4, which states: "The text of the hymn of the Republic of Slovenia is the seventh feat of the song France Prešerna Zdravica and the melody of the choral composition of the composer Stank Premrl." The text and the melody are the following, followed by a reference, it is understood that it is from the official letter in which the law was published. Let me tell you something else that I've never known before. The assembly of the primary school choir, which sang the hymn in the National Assembly, told me that he had to arrange for a two - vote arrangement for the youth assembly, because it was not in the music literature. But that just shows how favored the anthems are. The selection of the seventh kitules from Prešeren’s Anthem was based on the majority opinion that the anthem should be as short as possible, that the seventh whale thickens all the essential elements and contains, in the presence of its broad population, also an intimate human and community, a national component. In addition, the size of the hymn is not expressed by length or volume of song or song. The Academy of Music wrote in its expert opinion, stating: "The musical text of Premrlove Zdravljice as an anthem in the instrumental event is performed only once". I interrupt the quote and continue the quote. "The hymn characterizes music to the greatest extent and it is also the most recognizable, and is also the instrument most implemented." Thus, the law in force merely clarified the provisions of the first law and also received exceptional support at the time of its adoption. And now for the third level, which concerns the relationship between the anthem and Prešeren's cure. At the time of the adoption of the Law on the Anthem, it was pointed out that the legislator did not wish to overturn the other edges of the song by choosing the text of the hymn from Prešernová Zdradljica. Therefore, the statement from the explanation: "If both the Slovenian tip and the Slovenian anthem were to start with the first kit, this would cause problems for law enforcement authorities, if in cases of offensive way of singing this song it could not be ascertained for sure whether someone sang the Slovenian anthem or the Slovenian potion. On the other hand, the people at the events would be embarrassed to see the Slovenian choir and concert song with eight guitars begin as well as the Slovenian anthem and not be able to immediately determine the purpose of the game." Since the proposal extends the hymn to the entire text of Prešerenová Dravezica, it is therefore necessary to draw attention again to the problems already observed, especially to the extent. We imagine how we would be able to show the necessary respect for an anthem that would last between six and seven minutes and a half, of course in the instrumental-vocal performance. Article 4 of the current law should also be opened as the text and the notary record of the hymn are an integral part of the law. The question arises whether the proposaler was in such a hurry to overlook this or whether the proposal should be considered as another manoeuvre by the largest opposition party. However, since some also have problems with the communication of the Slovenian anthem, from the ninth book of the Encyclopaedia Slovenije in 1995, I should mention some of the thoughts of the author of the slogan France Prešeren, Professor Boris Paternuj's academics. It's just fragments. "The top of Prešeren's political poetry is Health. Its guiding thought – a radical requirement for the freedom of the Slovenian nation – stems from the humanistic vision of equality and friendly coexistence of all nations and the right of each to independence. In the background, the ideas of the French Revolution on equality, freedom and brotherhood are adapted to the fundamental political needs of the Slovenian peoples at the Spring of the Nations and their independence." If I remove all three levels and take the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats out of them. The proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which interferes with the scope and manner of the implementation of the national anthem, will not be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. Now for the promise. I will not talk about symbols, because everything has already been said about the Red Star and the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in this regard. However, I would point out what the second article of the proposed law says. In fact, in the article 24a added, where there is a speech prohibiting the use of symbols and the public glorification of their representatives, the second paragraph also states: "The use of the Slovenian anthem, coat of arms or flag in connection with the symbols or representatives referred to in the preceding paragraph is prohibited." Does this mean that the partisan celebrations will no longer be allowed to play the hymn? Will the Slovenian flag of the current Slovenian country no longer be allowed to be used? Won't the coat of arms be allowed because there will be a red star on partisan flags? Will this be seen as a comment that the partisan movement was not a patriotic movement, was not a unique event in history and in the history of European nations? The resistance of the Slovenian Partisan movement is something that should inspire us with pride and respect, not because the star will be used there – I will ask another question. At some other celebrations, will another military formation that did not use the star because it was not partisan be allowed to use state symbols? These are issues that need to be discussed in relation to this law, and also from this perspective we need to think about the dimensions of patriotism. By the way, Prešeren was talking about the country in the second box. Today we are no longer a country, today we are a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary with a co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me be forgiven this time for not talking about citizens and citizens, residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, but I will talk about Slovenians and Slovenians. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that Slovenians and Slovenians have internalized the seventh kitica of Zdravica, which begins with the Living to all nations. There is no way that the motion for a new law cannot support the argument that the whole hymn should be expressed in a higher degree of patriotism. In fact, the proponent of Slovenia and Slovenia, with such a statement, may also be sorry, for he secretly tells us that we have not shown the necessary levels of patriotism by using only the seventh kitts so far. This also denies our customs and customs, which have developed with Health since the time of our independent country. Whether the official anthem contains one, two or all eight kitties, it is a fact that this relationship with the Slovenes and Slovenes would not and will not change. The healer is one, and we've internalized her contents and we're carrying her into the heart. The proposaler says that the seventh kit is highly internationalistically colored and contrary to the values of patriotism. Perhaps, but we can also look at it from a second point of view — the text of the seventh verse strongly and almost dramatically calls for world peace and coexistence among all nations. It is certainly the only anthem in the world that transcends nationality and undermines the boundaries between humans that man has set himself. Such a text has the message that Slovenians and Slovenians should follow and be proud of. It is too narrow and surprising in accordance with today's times. We can say that Prešeren wrote this book with a prophetic view and a desire for what the world should be like and what Slovenians and Slovenians should be like in it. Let us ask ourselves, ‘ Is this really inexorable if, in our own anthem, we tell the world that we want peace and that we are giving up the hand of friendship? ’ Let us not forget that "the sun is walking" – that is, all over the world. The party shall place patriotism among the fundamental values of its programme. Let us hope that, among these values, respect for all human beings as well as honesty, as the Civil Gazette puts them. Building your program on patriotism and spreading national emotions can also be dangerous, as has often been the case with small nations in world history. And given the unfortunately undeniable fact that we are living in a period when Slovenians and Slovenians are both ideologically and politically and globally indistinguishable, we believe in the National Gazette that there is not a right time, nor is there any need to change state symbols. In the time in which we live, we should be united by the symbols. However, I am afraid that this bill would happen the other way around. And since we don't want it in the Civil War, we won't support the law. At the same time, we warn those who might dare to take advantage of our rejection of the law’s proposal for evidence of irresistibility, that such possible words are already being referred to as inadmissible. No one has the right to question our patriotism. For those who did so would, in our opinion, cross the bounds of the permissible. Otherwise, in the National Gazette, we believe that the purpose of the amendment is to hide itself in the second article of the bill, which speaks of the prohibition of the use of symbols of totalitarian systems in the public. We are convinced that this would in practice be impossible for at least some symbols, since in the past a certain symbol could have been used by different groups, national or religious communities; and for different purposes. We are also convinced that once again on the political floor instead of packages of historians, we want to open ideological themes and share Slovenia and Slovenia. In the Civil Gazette, we strongly oppose, believe and trust ideological topics in politics that Slovenians and Slovenians are capable of a critical view of history. That is why they do not need and do not want politicians and politicians to convince them of their right. We may also advise law-makers in this regard to check the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case [[Incomprehensible]] against Hungary. Perhaps another principled reflection on the changes in national symbols that have been in public for as long as our country is old. Any proposal to introduce or change state symbols would inevitably lead to different opinions and feelings. Some would not change anything because they are pleased with the symbols. Some people wouldn't change anything because they're used to the symbol. Some would only like a partial change, some would like changes, but different from those proposed. Some would not change anything, especially for practical and possibly related reasons. Some would change everything, as proposed, and some would change everything, but completely different from the proposed ones. In this world and even in our country, there is probably no solution that everyone would be pleased with. And that's the way it is, and it's completely normal. Because humans are sensory and emotional beings. Dear citizens, we think well in our heart, so we will not support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives, nice greeting! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that many important topics should be discussed here today, and we do not have concrete measures that the Slovenian Government would have taken to promote economic growth. I'm afraid there's no such action. Unfortunately, we have received a second warning from the European Commission from Brussels today. We are the only European country that has received a second warning about excessive imbalances. Today we should discuss here what the government will record in the report on the budget and reform plan by April, which is the next month when it has to report to the European Commission on corporate over-indebtedness in relation to public debt growth. A few days ago, we discussed how we were able to reduce or prevent the decline in public spending and the implementation of the banking sector strategy. Money is invested, nothing happens in other segments. Nevertheless, we cannot wave our hand and say that the Slovenian anthem is an insignificant topic. Important – and the pride of every Slovenian and Slovene woman. The anthem celebrates Slovenian holidays, with an anthem awakens patriotism, with an anthem presents itself outside, and with an anthem we also presented ourselves at the Olympics. And it is right that the specific law be aligned with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that the anthem of Slovenia is Zdravljica. So that we don't ask ourselves anymore whether our anthem is just one whale, or two, or all whales. We see such a solution as appropriate for further consideration and see no reason why it should not be adopted. However, we also agree that every public magnification of totalitarian regimes, their bearers and their symbols is extremely inappropriate. Today's debate on what is public expression and what is public magnification is likely to be here. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that the public magnification of any totalitarian regime is inappropriate, fear is exciting and also appropriate for punishment. Totalitarian regimes that have affected many are worthy of condemnation. It is also worth condemning if someone with the magnification of the symbols of totalitarian regimes hurts many who were victims of the totalitarian regime. Today, some ask themselves or wonder. They say that once there was a country, today we are a country. That's right, we're a state! But the question is whether it's still on paper or actually. The financial dependence we have achieved in the last year raises this legitimate question. And, as I mentioned at the outset, we should be working on preparing a response to Brussels on the over-indebtedness of businesses and on the growth of public debt, as well as on the catastrophic Real Estate Act, on the capture and our real Slovenian army, which helps us when we are in trouble – on firefighters. However, none of this has been prepared by the government at this meeting of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, in which we can also drink more of certain dictions with amendments. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. As a proposaler, he wants the word "magic" first. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you. Again and again, what some of us say out loud, while others know very well, but keep silent about it like a grave. The debate on values in the Slovenian Parliament and the Slovenian public is always a debate on fundamental development issues. Simply put. Whoever saw the recording of that whole state leadership organization under one of the most infamous totalitarian symbols without the entire event being one Slovenian national flag, one European common flag, each investor. Any businessman who wanted to do business with Slovenia just turned his eyes and left. Such a government has no choice but to be in even more debt and even more indebted to the next generation, to receive warnings from Brussels – what has happened today is that such behaviour is extremely irresponsible, inappropriate and developmental – while through its media explaining to Slovenia and Slovenians that Slovenia should be – this is, please, an address on one of the headlines, which is to go look at – at this point a country with one of the fastest growth in the European Union. People of God, is anyone else normal in this country?Oh, my God! As deep as Slovenia has fallen, no European country has fallen. All others have already recorded developments in the past period. Now, with a monstrous debt that is not a couple, it has been converted into the head of the population in any period of any country in the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u175	Mag. Grims, as a proposaler, I would like to remind you that you do not state these facts in the explanation of the law that you wish to present. I suggest you stay with the content of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u176	That's the point, Mr. President. The essence is the development of this country and today we are talking about the development issue, why this country does not come under this authority. Earlier, one of the Members and Members, whom you did not warn, claimed that Slovenia, as a country, had failed. I say that Slovenia as a country has not failed, Slovenia as a country is a wonderful country. Disappointed and extremely destructive, however, has proved to be the long-standing triumph of the transition left, which is economically and developmentally incapacitated, and then is repeatedly resorting to the resurgence of some totalitarian symbols and shows them as an alternative and developmental hope for the future. That's the problem. And that's why we get reminders like today from Brussels, because such a country is some red exot, from which all those who want to invest who want to look for business partners within the European Union run away. Such a country has no choice but to be in charge of the most expensive sums possible. But by doing so, it simply shifts developmental destructive policy to the next generation. This is a problem, and we are really talking about it today, only that we are speaking at a symbolic level when we are talking about the issue of state symbols, which the outsider understands much more than we unfortunately understand sometimes ourselves. Every investor, I say again, looking at the entire state leadership that orgy there, under some totalitarian symbol of the hour and hour, without having one national flag alone, one European flag only, runs away and then makes sure that they know what they're talking about, and sees that he was the most impressed, flattering part when Europeans were confronted with a bunch of thieves. He certainly is interested in coming to invest in us and looking for business partners. And we're wondering why the economy is going back and forth. Therefore, the topic ahead of us today is an essential development theme for Slovenia. But if you all run away from it like that and you know very well that's true. Those who applauded so enthusiastically when someone on the stage explained how Europeans were a bunch of thieves, I wonder if they then made a public apology. Not that I know of. The same Europe that unselfishly came to our aid with hundreds of trucks when Slovenia suffered a severe blow a few weeks ago. And the Europeans would deserve that apology. Where are they now? By the way, I don't understand why there was no public appreciation if there was no excuse, because I didn't notice that either. All those hundreds of trucks that came in, firefighters from Austria, Italy, Croatia and elsewhere, brought help, the most powerful generators, to take care of the electricity in the settlements that were cut off from the world, and here persisted for weeks and weeks. We would owe them first thanks and an apology, not the clapping of the state summit at some celebration under one totalitarian symbol when they were confronted by a gang of thieves. This is the moment of truth for Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, and when it comes to symbols and values! That is why this is a developmental issue that we are talking about today. Therefore, Slovenia has not disappointed anyone as a country; Slovenia is a good country; it is a member of the European Union; it is a member of the euro area; it is a member of the Schengen area. She was disappointed, however, by the longtime power of the transition left, which is developmentally incapacitated. And no government is better at this than the one that exists today. By the way, it was very interesting to have previously interpreted by a representative of the Government that some constitutional customs arise, even if it is possible in the Constitution a little differently, because in the Constitution it says very clearly that the anthem of the countries of Slovenia is Health. So, the healer's in full. Whatever someone with minimal legal knowledge reads this, it's clear to him that it says it. She said that it had become different, and that now is practically a constitutional norm. If we accept this logic, then I also understand the behaviour of the current government in unbridled indebtedness to the next generation, which is then seen as a developmental success. In fact, the Golden Rule was written in the Constitution more than six months ago. Three months have passed since the law was to be passed on the implementation of this rule, and it is not from anywhere today. It's probably going to be here, too, because it's constantly new and new debt and it's going to carry new and new billions of debts, and the next generation said to them, because you know, we really had one of those rules, but now it's a constitutional custom to be in debt indefinitely. Please, this is not responsible for your own country. The value of patriotism is not only an imaginary value, it is a value that we are all obliged to respect, but not only in words, ladies and gentlemen, especially in actions; and to be aware of what these actions are. And not then to apologize for anything that was once a little bit different, but perhaps a little better; or to understand something differently today. It was once different than it was today. We are part of the European Union and this value must be accepted in full and honestly. And what we propose when it comes to the issue of symbols is a ban on all totalitarian symbols. But not their private bearings, which you all have spoken of, is what that judgment really refers to, but their public glorification, only this and nothing else. If one child wants to continue wearing a shirt with such a symbol, let him wear it. But there cannot be a state celebration where there is no single state flag, there is not one single flag of the European Union, but there is a mountain of totalitarian symbols. This is something that is evolvingly devastating for Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, and it is non-European, extremely non-European, and today we are members of the European Union and NATO. In this context, who will be looking for an economic partner within such a country where the top of the country is doing so at an official event broadcast by central state television for hours and hours. No one, ladies and gentlemen! And that country is left with nothing but uncontrollable debt. Exactly what you're doing. What we need to explain is this. We do not change the symbols, ladies and gentlemen, because it has been said several times. The symbols change those that on Slovenian state symbols, which are defined in the law, beautiful some other signs. And for me, whether it's the signs of a sickle and a hammer or a red star or a pecking cross. They are all signs of socialism, because the crucifixion is national socialism, and the three are international socialism, and the whole thing is socialism. And it's all totalitarianism, ladies and gentlemen. Add fascism to it, and you will get all the criminal systems of the 20th century, in the ruins of which a modern united Europe has actually grown and in the ruins of which the Slovenian state was created. Who attacked us at our birth? Those who had a red star on their wings. The aircraft that bombed civilians, which is a crime under international law, had a red star up there. And not after some of you started apologizing for one of the totalitarian symbols that once meant something else. It's about as if someone came here now and would explain, you know, the hooky cross was a symbol of happiness and love in Asia for thousands of years. Yeah, but every normal person who sees a creaky cross today, he's cold on his back because he knows what was at the end of that symbol. And the problem is, when we literally had bombs flying over our heads at Brnik Airport, we know what they had on their wings — they had a red star. And you simply cannot believe that you are being destroyed by the country today, that they are destroying those under one of these totalitarian symbols, and that they are looking forward to – at an official national event without a single Slovenian flag, without a single European flag. Those you said would not be able to be an anthem anymore if the event of the union of fighters would not be part of the Slovenian flag. Thank God they can. Of course they'll be easy. But there will no longer be any state celebration at which the whole state summit will not be one Slovenian national flag, one Slovenian national coat of arms and one European flag. This isn't European. It belongs in a different place and time, you don't even know who they're celebrating. The one who attacked us, because he had this totalitarian symbol, under which they enjoyed, on the wings of their planes, on the tanks from which they shot civilians, shot at Slovenian cities. Then who are we celebrating here? This is a symbolic level. But it's not just us who ask ourselves that doesn't think that Europe sees us here. We're part of it. Every video today, including this footage of this event in the Contingencies, goes abroad. Even if someone's trying to limit it. There's an Internet today. The videos are circulating, they're translated into all languages, I've seen them on the Internet. And what strangers think about them, you can only imagine. Therefore, once again, when we talk about symbols, we are talking about the fundamental Slovenian development issue, that the country must be aligned in all its aspects with what are European values that are receptive to all totalitarianism, to the glorification of any totalitarianism. This is not about what someone wears privately or something like that, which some of you have talked about. This is about what is happening at the central national celebrations, ladies and gentlemen. That's the problem. For this is what those who seek to do business with someone will see. At this symbolic level, they feel that something with values is wrong here. And then they come to a very logical conclusion from this, and if you look at the report of the European institutions, it also officially convinces them that justice is probably not all right in such a country. And then they wonder if my investment will be properly protected here, whether my business interests will be adequately protected. And then when he hears that he's being bullied by a bunch of thugs, he goes somewhere else. As a result, Slovenia is becoming poorer and is living worse. And for this reason, it rejects this debate, in a mildly irresponsible manner, that the next generation is just as much so as the debt based on these foundations, which is also irresponsible to the next generation, with the European Union giving us a second warning very seriously. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this law must be adopted and European values must be truly accepted once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. Get ready, Dr. Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! As the first reported debater, I will try to continue in a slightly calmer tone. Allow me, however, to introduce my view of today's topic by reading the paragraph of the European Commission's report, which is published on the European Commission's website today. They say "Slovenia continues to record excessive economic imbalances requiring monitoring and further effective policy measures, even though imbalances have decreased over the past year due to macroeconomic adjustment and strong policy measures." I just want to say that there are a certain subject that we can interpret differently, because awareness of the country is awareness of people. Every time we talk about the country, we talk about people, about citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And as we can have different views on a given report – for some it is bad, for others it means that we are halfway through, and some see a fraction or in these matters. The tip of optimism – so it is when we talk about state symbols. When we discuss Slovenia, we must be aware that there are different people living here. We are connected by different values, different pasts and different experiences. But we are also a nation carrying a painful burden of history. In the past, many have suffered from painful wounds that may not have healed to this day. The role of a modern state and society is to heal these wounds and not reopen them. Every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia deserves a respectful, dignified and peaceful life in the country. People in the country just live together, we love each other, we cooperate, we create, we work, but sometimes we think differently. People work hard, forgive each other, and we understand. However, it is difficult for people to forgive a state policy, which is one that has repeatedly created conflict over and over again and is disrespectful to society. I am aware that under the symbol of the red star, our people also suffered. I understand that every time this symbol is exposed in connection with all of Slovenia, we will hurt these people. These are our dear citizens who live here, work, create and pay taxes. On the other hand, we need to understand that to many Slovenes and Slovenes, the red star is a proud and precious memory, for many it is the only truth, the value with which they identify themselves. And everyone needs to be respected. Above all, it is important to allow everyone to express their values smoothly. The view of the world and the world of each individual is unique. Let us therefore respect and treat every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia with dignity. It is important that we act unitedly and respectfully within the framework of national celebrations or other events and make sure that we do not offend anyone. National celebrations must be focused on integration and increasing awareness of patriotism and the importance of our Slovenia. At national celebrations, we must respect, recognize, commend and apologize. And I do not recognize this spirit and sincere desire in this novel of marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you, too. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word, and prepare yourself for Dr. Jožef Kunic. Here you go, Mrs. Jelusich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! As I reviewed the text prepared by the proponents for today's debate, I have been asked a number of questions, which I hope may be clarified in our debate or even in the future. One of the key questions to me was how the proposer actually understands patriotism and whether patriotism in the 7th kitica, as now selected for the Slovenian hymn from Zdravica, is not recognized. However, I would like to return to the important thesis posed by my colleague mag. In his debate; that is to say that different symbols – whether national or anthem, coat of arms, flags and others – can be understood in different contexts and at different times in different ways, as well as in different people, these symbols mean different things. We must also be aware in the anthem that its text was produced at the exact time and that the poet himself, when writing it, was not entirely satisfied with its contents and was correcting it several times. We are also aware that when we recite the cure, we always see it in the context of the time when the poet wrote it. But when we choose one piece, one or two kitties, or even all the kitties, and then we define them as our anthem, then we want to say that there are hidden values in those kitties that we recognize today. And in 1989 and 1990, when the seventh kitica was determined, in a broad professional and public debate, they came to realize that the seventh whale of Prešernová Zdradljica is the most accurate reflection of what is still today, that is, at that time – in 1989/90 in preparation for independence, reflects the desire of the Slovenian people for independence. If we now have the same debate and draw on the plan of all the kitties of Prešernová Zdravljevica, including the second kitica, we should also reconsider these kinds of reflections, whether there are such values in it that are still considered to be an integral part of some state longing and belief that this is what our Slovenian nation believes today – and will therefore sing and be used at all national and other important events. And we should have figured it out in the beginning, like she said before. They say that Prešeren, when he says, "Our God is our land," means the country of Kranjsko, not Slovenia. In his text, when he says that it is his desire to extend the patriotism associated with our country of Slovenia, he does not base his claims on the real things of Prešernová Zdravica. He's been talking about the country of Kranjska. In the next line he says, "God lives all the Slovenian world", where he means Slovenians who lived in different countries of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. And then he says, "Brother all we are, sons of the glorious mother." What Slavic mother? All the Slavic nations. It is said that what is hidden in the second box is also what is in the seventh box, namely internationalisation, from today’s point of view, of course. And in view of the needs we would like today, in 2014, we would like to tell our Slovenian citizens if, of course, we followed the proposal of the proposer. Then we would also find ourselves in this picture in a dilemma where a large part of the Slovenian population would wonder if another woman is also sexist for today's use. For he speaks of the brothers. Where are the sisters? Where's the female population? They're talking about sons. Where are the daughters? If the song is taken from the context and used for an anthem today, then in public debate and reflection on this song we must also think about such things, not only because it is close on 8 March. You say that all the kitties of the Medici should be used for the anthem. I would like to know how Slovenian wife and woman would experience a woman who talks about Slovenes, from which "sons, offspring new, you will fear enemies". And this is the only function that today, in today's value system, a woman in Slovenian society would have. I would say that it is good to attach to those who have carefully considered Prešeren's Health in 1989 and 1990 and have also chosen the seventh kitica because it is the most neutral in terms of modern values. The question arises, however, whether our proponents really had patriotism in mind when they first proposed the entire Medici and then the second and seventh kitica for the future Slovenian anthem. For I have found a speech from a gentleman who was once a member of the SDS in various works. I don't think they're gonna say he wasn't a member, Dr. Mark Turk. He gave a speech at Draga Study Days in 2012, in which he said that the main reason for Slovenia's problems was the failure to recognize the moral foundations of conservative Slovenians. He said that right - handers excel at all the morals recognized by left - handers, such as the care of people, honesty, and freedom. And he also said, an additional three moral foundations, belonging or loyalty, respect for authority, and holiness and purity. He says, but these last few lefties don't understand, and that's why the hymn needs to be changed. And he says, the seventh kitty speaks more of the left moral basis when they talk about the healer; it is said that there was once in the SDS, I suppose, the idea is that the problem of the seventh kit is that Prešeren was talking about a more left moral basis, for example. worry – "let all the nations live", then honesty – "the dispute will be banished" and freedom – "when the kinsman is free." While another guitar you would now like to announce as the most useful for shorter celebrations, it also addresses the right conservative foundations. It speaks of our country's belongings, we belong as brothers, it speaks of respect – "God lives our country, God lives all the Slovenian world", and of course holiness – with the mention of God. It seems, however, that this development of thinking about the inadequacy of the current Slovenian anthem, also taking into account the fact that you have introduced a similar law into the parliamentary procedure years ago, that the development of thinking nevertheless contained some other moral debates and different ideas about the moral foundations of our society, which should be reflected in the anthem, rather than what you are telling us today, namely that you are very committed to having as much a patriotic anthem as possible. When you mentioned that in the Olympic Games for Tina Maze it was not possible to play the correct Slovenian anthem because the flag had been lifted on drugs for too long, it would be worth noting that the Olympics were a unique event to happen every four years. The question is, are we ever gonna have Tina Maze again? And at a Russian celebration with high narcotics or. on a handout in Russia with very high drugs, where it will be necessary to play an anthem a little longer. But I'm worried about what it would look like if we played a six-minute hymn, and raising the flag on drugs wouldn't fit this new hymn length. That's as far as the hymn is concerned. As for the second proposal in Article 24a, as you propose, where you speak of the need to prohibit the public enlargement of all totalitarian regimes and to shorten all their symbols, it is also interesting in the previous addition to this proposal. Interesting – one big con. So you mean that, for example, private parties and neo-Nazi concerts are not a problem in our society, because they bear certain symbols of totalitarian regimes, such as fascism, Nazism and national socialism. You mean that the personal use of these national socialist symbols used by neo-Nazis and other extremists is permitted. That's what you're trying to tell us right now. And that wouldn't bother you. It bothers you, however, if at celebrations, there are symbols at public public celebrations that glorify one of the possible other political regimes. I would like to point out that if you think the police are what you say in the next article, which will persecute and control the use of different symbols, different regimes. Then know that these symbols need to be very precise and write down which symbols you actually think. "Totalitarian symbols" means nothing, I've reviewed more books myself, I've written once a scientific debate on political symbols myself. I couldn't find an explanation for the totalitarian symbols anywhere. However, I found explanations for the symbols used at different times for different understandings, and in this regard I would say two cases where the applicants would also ask if they could explain to me how I, as a citizen, should treat the people who have experienced this. In Primorska in 1943, women secretly sew red stars on partisan blankets. When discovered, of course, fascist units take them to Italian concentration camps and other camps. They're locked up not because that red star would be a symbol of communism, but because they know that this red star is being used on covered fighters to conquer or. for a single Primorska, freed Italian fascist authorities, joined by another new state. Fascists didn't see a symbol of communism in the red star. The second example: in the spring of 1944, exactly 70 years ago, the place of Jurište in Notranjska, along this place leads the partisan path by which partisan couriers accompany the wounded to a nearby partisan hospital in the woods. They travel a lot this way, almost every day. They feel relatively safe, for locals from neighboring villages are fond of the partisan movement. One night, one of these couriers on this road is waiting for a domestic unit, logistic patriots. And this one courier, who comes back alone after handing the wounded partisan to a partisan hospital, begins to suffer beastly torture, fight. And one of the forms of torture is that they cut a pentagram on his forehead. When he dies and his blood runs out, this pentagram becomes a red star. This 17-year-old boy was cut to the head by a red star, headed by a janitor. What did the natives see in this 17-year-old boy? His name was Milan Jelusic, that was my uncle. And how can I, as a citizen and as a member of my family, respond to the members of my family, some have died, some have ended up in prison, some are still living today, how can I answer the question: How do some today, even in the National Assembly, view the symbols under which they bled for Primorsko and for the new country, Slovenia? For they say that for those who spit on the red star today, they did not fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you. As a proponent, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u182	I'm just moving on. The Republic of Slovenia in the framework of Yugoslavia, the end of World War II, 1945 was no more. Young girls are buried alive and buried in Barbara's trench under the mark of a red star. Then Europe before 1990, under the sign of a red star from Slovenia, is walking and killing people across Europe, which today is being explored by all Europe. They're killing me. And if you want, the war on Slovenia, Mrs. Jelusic, 1991, Dolenjska, a red-star aircraft drops cluster bombs on civilian vehicles on the highway. Dozens of dead, badly wounded. Crime under all the criteria of international law. A plane with a red star flew directly towards me, flying 20 meters or less, bombs flew over my head to Brunik. It had a red star. Now you're going to convince me that there's a difference between a pecking cross or a red star or a symbol of fascism. There's no difference. These are totalitarian symbols and their public magnification, any one of them, only divides this nation. And that's all we want to ban. Not like you showed a little bit of duality when you said, "But that's allowed, but that's not allowed." No, let's make it the same standard for everyone. Every crime is a crime, and every victim is a victim, and every crime is worth a conviction, and every victim is worthy of all honor, regardless of the regime and the story and the stated goals. At least I hope that there should be consensus on this, because this is a fundamental civilisation principle that has created a modern united Europe, ladies and gentlemen. Exactly this was the content of that declaration of European consciousness and totalitarianism, for which you have all said in this National Assembly from the first to the last that it binds you. So prove it, ladies and gentlemen. This is the moment of truth. Keep all the same standards. We're not suggesting anything other than that all the totalitarian symbols, and each one of them, make me stand on my back, because I know what was going on underneath it. Every normal person freezes on his back if he knows what was really happening under which symbols to ban their public magnification. This, ladies and gentlemen, is European. And this can also be the basis on which Slovenia starts new development, and this is our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you. Procedurally, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you, President, for allowing me to make a procedural proposal. I expect you to use your presidency again, as you did at the outset, when the proposer crosses the limits of a decent and civilized person. After this shocking confession by my colleague Jelusic, the applicant can't even understand that what colleague Hočevar said before is that we can read the same symbol differently because we want to read it differently. And the ban on the red star as a symbol will never, if this law announces, accurately identify whether the proposer was referring to that red star on the plane, or what he was saying, or the one that the patriots stabbed in the head of the young courier. And it is unacceptable that this is the way we are discussing it. It divides people. Some demand respect for values and civilisation standards at every opportunity, but they do not show any empathy for the pain of others. I ask you, however, to warn the proposer when he crosses the limits as he did in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you for your warning. I think that it would really be true, especially in the debates on state symbols, to have in front of the eyes that it is a symbol of the whole country, of citizens and of citizens, and that divisions are not actually acceptable. I hope we can do this further. Dr. Joseph Kunic has the floor. And before that, it's procedural, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u186	The Honorable President. You usually do your work very properly, I must say, significantly more than your direct predecessor. But sometimes, I think, you get carried away. I would ask you not to sit on such things as the proposal of Mrs Potter in the future, because if you would listen to me carefully, you have heard what the point of my words was. That every crime is a crime, no matter what sign it is, and what name and ideology it is, that every crime is worthy of conviction, and that every victim is worthy of all honor. And that should be the point at which full consensus should be reached. I submit that at least once this point has been reached, at the time of Slovenian independence.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you. I give the word to Dr. Joseph Kunic, but prepare yourself a mag. Ivan Vogrin. Mr. Kunic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think that the debate on symbols is so important that we should focus on this issue. Today we have heard how one of our colleagues wondered why measures were not explained to raise economic growth, why a warning came from the European Union and so on. I don't know if anyone is out of arguments or wants to discuss other issues in any way. I would just like to pay all our attention to this very important issue. As for the Doctor and the initiative of author Boris Pahor, I would like to say the following. I was with him a couple of times in the mid-1990s. As Ambassador to Paris, I organised presentations on his books, not only in Paris, but also at the largest book fair in France, in Saint-Etienne, where he was very successful in presenting his work. And he was, at least I thought so, then almost more famous there than in Slovenia. So it's a man I really appreciate. Of course, I heard his statement as well as several times his debates about the anthem. If I understand correctly, he stood up for a more patriotic, perhaps more determined song, a decisive hymn. Then we can not forget when the Slovenians gained independence, we had the already existing Slovenian anthem, which is very striking, from Davorin Jenk – "Before the flag of glory, to fight heroic blood for the treasure of paternity let the rifle speak". So striking and in the spirit of many hymens, including other Western democracies and other countries. But a consensual Slovenian nation has been defined as Health. For in health is singing patriotism, freedom, unity and nobility as ideals that mankind must pursue in the fight against every tyranny to live in peace, nation and individual. One of the greatest preshernosts Slovenia has ever had, Professor Anton Slokar says that in Prešerno's song he toasts the free spirit of a better social and cultural future of the Slavonic, Slavonic and all mankind. Love and goodness will transform mankind. The very creation of Zdravica talks about this because it has become in some way an answer Go to Slovenia, written by John Vesel Koseski, which was widely promoted by the authorities of the time, and not nearly attains this artistic level as achieved by Health. The 7th Kitt is not patriotic in that striking, decisive sense, and I am proud of the Slovenian people for choosing it. What is more patriotic than the desire that every cousin be free, that the neighbors be good, and that there will be no dispute between them, that they will live in good relations. I'm more of a patriot with the exception of some kind of stomping patriotism. Therefore, the idea that patriotism is not expressed enough in the seventh box is in no way agreeable. Of course, the question is, What's the matter with the second kit? Is it appropriate? It was written that Prešeren put our country of Slovenia first. Not only is that not true, but the healer is characterized by graduation. First, the country of Slovenia, the Slavonics, then comes equality in front of people, women, men, then comes the famous seventh kitty and finally the top of the eighth kitty, where it speaks of all the people in this world, "who think well in the heart". It's true that the second feline is before the seventh, but by definition it doesn't nearly reach, in my opinion, the seventh feline. Is the second set suitable to be in the Slovenian anthem? It would seem strange that the hymn text begins with a question. I don't know if that's the best thing to do. In the first place is the country which is the country of Kranjska – thus analysing the previously mentioned one of the largest Prešernoslovaks, which Slovenia has. He talks first about Kranjska, nothing about the Primors, nothing about the Prekmurcs, nothing about the Dolenjci and the others. Then it goes to "ves Slovenian world", which is Slovenia after analysis of the same professor. And "sons of the famous mother" is the whole Slavic world, so the famous mother of Glory. Is it appropriate that now that we are separated from the Slavic brothers in Yugoslavia as South Slavs in NATO, we now bring this desire to our anthem for Slavonicism into our anthem. I'm not sure, and that's why I don't think that's the right idea. The second part of the proposed law speaks of totalitarian symbols, symbols of totalitarian regimes. It is not true, Mr Grims, that no magnification is merely forbidden. The public use of their symbols and public exaggeration is prohibited. I find that very worrying. I believe that the proposer thinks of certain symbols at a certain time, in a certain way. But if we write it like that, it means wherever it's used, it's shown, it's a totalitarian symbol, it's a public use of this symbol, and it's forbidden. If I may be a little cynical, a few totalitarian regimes were on Slovenian soil. It must have been the Republic of Venice. Is the use of its symbol a lion standing on a piranhas house forbidden? It was a totalitarian regime, because Mark Paul was never allowed to tell the truth that he saw in the world. He had to think, as required by the regime, there was a narrowing down of staff. If someone said that strictly, then the use of these is forbidden. If we're going to the Ljubljana Opera, he's run off with something that's still original. There's a two-headed eagle on them. Austro-Hungarian was certainly a totalitarian regime; already the censorship that your great poet Prešeren could experience speaks of. She sent many soldiers of Slovenian nationality to Galicia, South Tyrol and the Soko Front. This symbol is used in the window in public. Even parliament is looking at some windows. You could've kept going. I think it is necessary to define very clearly what these symbols are, but otherwise there may be some excesses that could be very unpleasant for the Slovenian people. I would only recommend to the proposer that he think more carefully about what he is proposing. But I have another interesting thought. Which regimes were those that prohibited the use of this regime of unwanted totalitarian symbols. That's what totalitarian regimes did the most. Totalitarian regimes of communism have banned the cross; we know that this has been the case in Albania and beyond. The totalitarian church authorities once banned other symbols, especially Muslim and Jewish; we must not forget this and we could even list it. This law smells to me, if I may use that term, according to the law of those who thought in a totalitarian way. That's not good. And I don't think that's the right way. I agree, however, that more attention should be paid to the use of Slovenian symbols. That would be the right way. When I look at the Swedish team in any sport, they almost certainly have yellow-blue jerseys. The French can't avoid tricolours, we see white-red in the Japanese and so on. What do we see in Slovenian representatives abroad? There's no color on the flag, and there's no color on the coat of arms. Not even our Olympic team, some yellow color or anything. greenish, something like that – I'm in our flag and I haven't noticed my back. If we look at the football team that plays abroad these days, does it have the colors of Slovenian flags? No, he doesn't. We could have them, and that would be the real encouragement of our athletes and others who represent Slovenia abroad to use our symbols. And that would also encourage the nation to turn its back on the use of some other symbols. I'd be very upset if someone told me to, but now you support the use of other totalitarian regimes, symbols, because you're not up for it because we're cutting them off. I don't support them. You've never seen me with a symbol like that, never, never. And it's not true that I would support it. However, I support freedom of expression and support the way in which our true symbols are used to the greatest extent possible. This would be the right path for me, so all politicians, civil society, the media need to be active; and by no means do they adopt laws that simply prohibit something, and they themselves do not know exactly what they have banned. They know what they wanted to ban, but what they actually banned, they obviously don't know exactly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you, too. Procedural? You may have the floor as a motioner. But you want procedural, please, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u190	I would suggest that you congratulate Mr. Kunič on his own criticism before anyone can even tell him anything. This is indeed an achievement in this House. From his words, he could rightly conclude that he was extremely concerned that he would no longer be able to wear any more flags with a hooky cross or anything like that, for that is exactly what he said. And he knew it in time, and then he went off on his own to his own words and canceled them. This proves that you are self-aware of the nonsense you speak. If something is worth judging, if it's a crime, it doesn't matter what sign it's under. Crime is a crime, ladies and gentlemen. This is a fundamental European principle, it is a fundamental principle of humanity, and this must be accepted honestly and without exception.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr Grimes. I think you are also aware that you have misused the procedural proposal; and I really do not know why this is necessary if you are ever able to get a word as a candidate. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Surely we all agree that the symbols of the country — coat of arms, flag and anthem — are important. By observing a little around us, we can see that countries that are very successful also greatly appreciate their symbols. I'm going to Switzerland about every month. If you are watching Switzerland, virtually every house, each company is marked with Swiss symbols, flag. The products they have are also marked with this. This is very important. Maybe we were too innovative, really, to make our symbols. We can learn a lot from kids, you know. Mr Kunič mentioned that Slovenian athletes are not in the colours of the Slovenian flag. We can agree that this may not be good, but we can think differently. Like my six-year-old son, maybe this flag is too much like a Russian flag. When we watched the Olympic Games in Sochi, my son realized that he was competing with a Slovenian athlete because he was not yet able to read, after what flag had been painted. And he regularly replaced the Slovenian and Russian flag. This is real. Perhaps the same color as the Olympic team, which was very successful, would suggest putting into the future Slovenian flag. But it's probably already blasphemous to even think about what to start. Otherwise, I'm not among those who would have resistance to any symbols, because it's a matter of a personal relationship. Also, what Mrs Jelusic said was that in various parts of Slovenia these symbols were also experienced differently. I was recently in Primorsk, and I was told stories like those in Styria. It would seem to be very patient. My opinion is as follows. If this law is rejected by the ordinary majority, this is the defeat of the entire Parliament. If this law is adopted by a simple majority, it will increase the whole Parliament. Such laws should be able to be coordinated so long as they are adopted by a two-thirds majority, i.e. literally by consensus. And perhaps a little bit of advice, even though it is not good to give advice. I think that it would be possible to reach the acceptable content of this law if all 7 leaders of the parliamentary groups were to close the room and say that they cannot leave the room until at least two-thirds of them are aligned, i.e. with the majority needed to amend the Constitution or similar acts. Until then, they only get water. Then we could come up with a solution. And I think that's what we need. I'll tell you my experience. You know, people's success unites and failure separates. That's not my conclusion. I read it somewhere. When we were a successful company, we had a proud flag, a European flag, a Slovenian company, and some. Then the company went bankrupt and the flags started to break. Some citizen warned me online that it would be good to remove the scaffolding flag. And we really did it. Once the company is back on track, I hope we will hang them proudly again. It is similar with the state of Slovenia – we will proudly raise the flags when we are an economically successful country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Get Mr. Aljoša Jerič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Today we should talk about the protection of Slovenian national identity. It seems to me that we forget that the Slovenian state – the state of Slovenia – was created in 1991 and that it did not come into existence in 1945, not in 1970, but in 1991. And it is justified that we have tabled an amendment to this law. This is clear from this debate. More than half, much more debates by coalition Members and Members referred to the years before 1991. You were talking mainly about the red star and the symbol, the totalitarian symbol, which you're obviously very proud of. I have a feeling that you don't want to hear that Europe, with the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, is 2. 4. 2009 condemned all three totalitarianisms. We, too, have come to know this resolution in the National Assembly. Why we only learned why one of the few European countries that did not adopt these resolutions supported us, this is a question to be asked. This was the time of the government of Borut Pahor. This was the time when the Social Democrats led the country. There was no support in the coalition at the time, no desire to do so. All Europe condemned communism and totalitarian symbols, resulting in a red star. This is where we pretend like it didn't happen. It's like we're some lonely island in the middle of Europe. And we're not, we're part of Europe and we should be aware of that. We were accused of reopening ideological topics. Now I don't know exactly who was talking about it, but I remembered and you wrote it down. Ah, Dr. Jelusich talked about how some suffered during the war, after the war, and so on. But, you know, under the symbol of the red star, many have suffered. From this, we must come from this. Now let me focus on changing the law. I divided my debate into three sets. First the hymn. What do we want? The Constitution says she's an hymn of health. In the law that we are proposing today, we have written down compliance with the Constitution that it is fully implemented at national celebrations and public holidays. We also lay down the permissible exceptions for only second and seventh kitties. Where do you see this problem? What's the problem here? The excuses for rejecting the bill referring to the anthem are very much so. Full of philosophizing and dissecting Prešeren's health, but each in its own way. Everyone can imagine what the greatest Slovenian poet wanted to say with a song interprets in his own way. Everyone. [[advertising from the hall]] Well done, because it's an art. That's right, mag. Spending. Because it's an art and it's an alien. That's why we should be proud of the whole song, not saying that the seventh whale is the most neutral. That's exactly what you said. The 7th Kitt is the most neutral and is therefore acceptable to everyone. It is as if they were ashamed from the first to the last: and it is only that which is good. We are talking about France Prešeren being our greatest poet, we are proud of him, we all speak only praisefully of him, because otherwise we cannot. But when we propose that the anthem of the countries of Slovenia be a complete healer, as stated in the Constitution, we run into 101 problems that it is not good to not say it here, there speaks something else and so on. These are the excuses you draw from five veins. These excuses don't hold up, they just don't hold up. The great patriotism and patriotism of Mr Tone Kuntner, an honorary member of Heraldica Slovenica and Boris Pahor, have been warning for years that Slovenian anthem needs to be adapted to Slovenian national identity. This is the basic constitutional charter for the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This is just about whether you're because or not. That's all it's about, and everything else seems to me to be delusional. But I think it was you, Master of Potrata, who were talking about the general agreement that there should be and that there should be no professional and interested public involved. Today I received a letter from the profession and this profession is the Heraldic and coat of arms Society of Slovenia Heraldica Slovenia. And you won't think that I'm talking about not being people who are competent to make decisions or to give opinions on this matter that we're dealing with today. I tell you that this society cares about the preservation of Slovenian national identity, such as coat of arms, flags, anthems and the nature of the Slovenian race, which was created in paradise under Triglav. Our society was founded in 1991 and is a member of the World Association of Vexicologists. At the 1993 Congress, we were accepted as the first country of the former Yugoslavia and South-Eastern Europe to join this association. On 8 August 2011, we also obtained an appropriate Vexiological Certificate of Flagship in Washington. This is a profession, and today this profession wrote: "We support your initiative." We're backing up! This is where the reference to expertise appears to fall. The second purpose of the bill is to amend the criminal provisions from tolar to euro. This is what we have done and we have slightly raised the penalties that are proportionate to today's time. I believe that this part of the change of law you really can't oppose, and I believe you can't. And third, the most important. Every public expression of ideas through or through totalitarian symbols is strictly prohibited and strictly sanctioned, as it is a matter of extreme action contrary to the rules of the State of Slovenia. This bill prohibits the public magnification of all totalitarian regimes, their bearers and symbols. We're talking about everyone. You're focused on communism. We have told everyone not to attribute to us how extreme right-wingers use something that we all condemn, of course, and as if we don't. If I refer to the debate of my colleague Grims, who spoke of the Stožice, about the state event where the state summit was held. You know what's scariest? Of course, I wasn't there, but I saw it on TV and online. In this past ideology these people actually believe. They think they're right that this is what will bring Slovenia out of this crisis, if we go back, everything will be fine and fine again. So credit on credit and then credit on this loan and then those who come after us pay for it. It was in the previous system, but unfortunately it's happening again now. The sample shall be repeated and the sample of the system shall be clearly repeated. It is frightening that those people who clapped in the first, second, third and all other species — 10, 12 thousand people — really believe that this is an alternative, that it is a solution. That Europe is a gang of thieves, that they are ties. That's really incomprehensible, incomprehensible. By rejecting our proposal, you will clearly show the right face and I think it will be necessary to make a decision slowly. Whether you respect your country, your state symbols that have been created since 1991; or whether you want to continue to magnify the symbols condemned by all of Europe. That's all he's going to do and he's going to have to make up his mind. One example I would like to tell you or read it to you relates to the defiance of the Slovenian national and national flag. On the memorial of the first exhibition of the Slovenian flag on 7 April 1848 on Wolf's Street – this is nearby – was the most often marked Slovenian flag, since our flag has been issued since then. From solid drugs, the trade route of the flag was torn and trampled on the sidewalk, and later the villains also resorted to drugs, curved them, and removed flags. And this is happening every year, every year on the date that I have just said – April 7th. So someone planned it every year to take the Slovenian flag down, trample it and defile it. The last application was filed with the police in 2013. Now another obvious example, which we have probably all noticed in the media, was that there was a picture of the police waving with the national flag, which also had a symbol of the former totalitarian system beside the coat of arms of the independent Slovenia. And now I'm going to read to you the police response to what the police said: "In the case of the exclusion of the original all-stars, we can define the flag as the Slovenian national flag or the flag of the Russian Federation." This is the police's response, which is the responsibility of our country's Minister of the Interior, and that says it all. Today I got this from the Heraldic Slovenian Society. If this is true that such an answer has come, it is all the more important and all the more right that today or tomorrow we will vote that we will urgently adopt this law. Emergency! Because apparently the police don't actually have a basis if they write it in part. One more thing about national identity. All countries of the world have their own national identity and laws are guaranteed by the Constitution. Our neighbours tend to have a "domestic war" for their national identity, although some of them also have some of this "war" in the European Court of Justice. What do we have? The passport of the Republic of Slovenia shall appear on the SVN code. The transport licence shall be marked SLO, without a national coat of arms. The driver's license is stateless. They say this from Heraldica that all their comments on the marketing and driving licence have been rejected by reference to the Directives of the European Union. Now, of course, they're wondering if that's true, but then why does a neighbouring Austria have a national identity on its documents, that's a coat of arms, and we shouldn't have one. It's like they're ashamed. Dearly beloved, I believe that the time has actually come when it will be necessary to decide and say: Slovenian State, the country of Slovenia was created in 1991. The system before that was totalitarian and must be condemned. It is also necessary to condemn all totalitarian symbols. In this law, which we are proposing today, we are regulating all these matters. I'm sorry when someone with a flag with a red star wave at a national event, at a national ceremony, but even if it's only as a viewer, it insults me as a soloist, as a fighter that I fought. My comrade, my fighter comrade Edward Pepper, fell by my side, and I will never forgive those who attacked us at that time. Slovenia led a defensive war, we defended ourselves, we didn't attack anyone. And we were attacked by a red star. And also for this reason, I am sure that I am absolutely in favour of this law being enforced and that as far as possible penalties should be written for those who continue to magnify all these symbols. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the floor and Mr Branko Kurnik is being prepared. Here you go, Mr. Jerich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! The proposer of the amendment of the anthem in his explanation says that the existing anthem, called the seventh kitrice of Zdravica, is not patriotic. I can't accept that at all. The seventh kitica of Zdravjica is extremely current about us Slovenians. In the 7th kitica, first put peace among the nations as a prerequisite, without which the smaller nations and thus the Slovenians cannot prosper. In history, in times of war, we Slovenians were sacrificed and used to fight for foreign interests. We have been the object of shopping and the spoils of many large nations around us. Excess in the seventh verse says that only in peace can we be as a nation sovereign, creative, and have our own country and decide our own destiny. So Prešeren tells us that a peaceful approach to conflict resolution is the best strategy for the survival of our people. As a result, I recognize this peace-lovingness as our common value and national character, and this is spoken of by the 7th Kitza Zdravica. In the second part, the seventh kitty also speaks of the fact that "not the devil, only the neighbour will be a milestone"; of course, this does not only apply to the peace between us and our neighbouring nations, especially at this moment also for the relationship between ourselves, it is said between us Slovenians, because the coexistence between us is often difficult, which is also well cared for by some political parties. The more we act that we are sufficient, the more we become limited and primitive — as individuals and as a society. Developed companies are open to the outside, monitor foreign initiatives and are able to adapt to the environment. And when we compare the life of the nations with that of an individual, obsessive concern for their own image is the characteristic of adolescents, and the life of a mature entity is filled with concern for another. I therefore believe that the existing legal provision, which lays down for the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia, the seventh kitica of Zdljevica, is still very topical and with which I personally identify myself very much and which I am very proud of. And if the goal of our anthem is to identify with it, if it is to strengthen our national identity, then it is not good that national symbols, which is also an anthem, change too often. Exchanges point to misrepresentation with identity. Thus, the exchange of an anthem instead of consolidating our national identity would have the opposite effect, which I hope is not the aim of the proposed amendment, which I cannot agree with. In the second part of the proposed amendments, the Law on coat of arms, flag and anthem, the proposer proposes to strictly prohibit and severely sanction the use of totalitarian symbols. This is again an attempt by the proposer – SDS parties to prevent the use of the red star, which did not happen for the first time. We all remember that Janševa's government once ruled out the partisan banners from the state celebration on June 2012 in Ljubljana. The formal excuse, however, was the reference to a Council of Europe resolution prohibiting the use of symbols of totalitarian regimes. The Red Star — also a symbol of antifascist resistance — was identified as a symbol of the occupying army. Does the ban on the public use of symbols also mean that in Slovenia we should stop pouring beer to a famous manufacturer because it has a red star in the logo? So this beer represents the communist regime or JLA. What about a chain of stores with Macys clothes store, which also has a big red star for its logo. And you could also list cases where the logo of a brand is a red star. By adopting this law in Slovenia too, we would like the absurd thing that happened in Hungary when they belonged to the Dutch brewery Heineken. This is because of the sign, which is a red star. Is this really the future progress of our people? However, if my thinking is not enough, let me also mention the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on what the red star symbolizes and what not. Thus, in 2008, the Court of Justice stated to the Hungarian Workers' Party that the Red Star is not necessarily a symbol of the regime, for which the Hungarian Court has repeatedly deepened it. Let me ask everyone a question. Don't these stories remind you of the totalitarian regime? Is not one of the fundamental values of democracy just freedom of speech? I won't support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor. And get ready, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak. Here you go, Mr. Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, President. Nice hello to you all! The increase in totalitarian regimes must certainly be unacceptable and illegal. No one in public has the right to glorify or thereby to promote hatred for one another. However, there is a problem with the symbols and it also encouraged me to think, Mr Hrvat, who said he was attacked by a red star. Yes, Mr. Croat, he's not here, but I believe he'll agree with me. In our time, we were attacked by a red star. At the time of our grandparents, the red star set them free. Why? At different times, under different systems, regimes or whatever we call it, different symbols could mean different things. I have said this in my position today, and any symbol we look at, we can always find many different meanings from history itself forward. During the Turkish downfall, we suffered under Islamic signs. Are we banning Islamic signs now? How many people died in the time of the Crusaders, the Templars. Are we banning the cross? The swastika sign. If you go to India, to the Asian continent – do you know what the sign of swastika means? It means happiness. It's their religious symbol. It's painted on every building. It can be turned in the right direction, it can be turned in the left direction. And in the history of about 70 years ago, someone brutally abused this sign, like a sign of a partisan struggle, a red star, later brutally abused in some political system, in a revolutionary battle. Can we now, by preventing ourselves from going through, all those who can identify ourselves with certain signs in a different way than we think in our heads, or who we imagine otherwise, or do we not do wrong to such people? I think we should give the main point exactly what I said before and what you're saying and I agree with you. This is unacceptable, but at the same time in marriage, as you know it, you know that such signs can no longer be used at events. I mean, there's been a lot of talk about this today, but I don't want to look back at the partisan struggle, the red star at the celebrations. Some people have been freed under this sign. They got rid of the invader. Can we take this as a sign of the totalitarian system of the communist regime? Yeah. Can we take them as a sign of the partisan struggle? It's hard. How are we going to separate this from the marriage? How do we separate this from the law? I can't imagine. If that were possible in practice, I will sign such a proposal immediately, at the moment; but I do not see it coming. And if you can convince me, in any way, that this matter can in practice be settled, I agree with you, the enlargement of totalitarian systems is unacceptable and illegal. Please, however we look at this, even from a broader perspective, that we have in mind all people, not just some group that disagree with a certain period or wish it were different. I hope you don't take that as a bad thing. This is not criticism, this is thinking about what such a change of law can bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you, too. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you very much, distinguished President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-worker, honourable Members and Members! Yes, much has been said today about the symbols of our country. I must say that I also have a personal attitude toward these symbols. I have a positive attitude towards those symbols that we have adopted and written in the Constitution and the law as the independent Republic of Slovenia. For me, the symbol is not a red star under which you could proudly stand and bow to it. Let's leave the national liberation fight and communism. If I just look back in 1991, who knew what was going on in 1990, what happened in 1991. It was the first time that Slovenia and Slovenians were given their own country. To this point, Slovenians never had their own country. We lived under another country, with another name, united with other nations and nationalities. I too have my ancestors who fought under the red star, fell under the red star, and I can have a relationship from this side to this star. But I can't have it because today I know the truth about what this red star did to kill more Slovenes and Slovenes than the former regime did. And in what way – in the cruelest, most uncivilizing way. No convictions. Without the possibility of the family knowing where they were buried, without the judgment of the courts. Mr. Möderndorfer can wave his hand because he wasn't in the hall today anyway. Of course, it's best to come and wave if anyone talks. I respect your opinion and respect Mr Kurnjek's debate. I respect every debate in the National Assembly, but I also have the right to express my opinion, position and attitude on these symbols of the totalitarian system. And every totalitarianism has brought a lot of injustice and a lot of pain to everyone. But if I look back from the war of independence, I live today in a democratic, parliamentary state for which I wish that its values were not those courageous acts of the past caused by communism. I know I'm going to get some emails again today after a discussion when some pictures and some movies stick in my email, but I'll tell you my point. In 91 we had certain people who participated in activities for the independence of the country, some black dots over the bells of their apartments. One of them had plates that were full, and one of them was empty. Consider what this meant in 91, and how brave it was of all those who fought for a country of their own. Unfortunately, there were a number of them when they announced themselves in a fig in their pocket. Today, this is also shown in relation to our national symbols and the magnification of the symbols of a former totalitarian system. It's not civil and it's not democratic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I actually appeal to you if you want us not to split up, to finally unite, to start breathing together and to help Slovenia clear up our past – but in a way that we know how to define ourselves properly to crimes. It's easy to talk, but have you really done anything in this direction? When I was in the Devil's Cave, I couldn't believe there was such a thing in civilized society. And today, in 2014, we are unable to dig up these victims and bury them with dignity. Not only the Huda Cave in Celje, there are a lot of these things in my area that I am not talking about Petričko, that I am not talking about Tehari, that I am not talking about Pecovník, about the Basket, and there are still these graves in the cauldron. But that those who have the power and the ability to influence that we change these thoughts, that we know how to define ourselves in a civil way to these victims and also to their relatives, that's what's not acceptable. Today, many have spoken about the need to talk about how we will save the economy. Of course, I agree. But when we opened up such a darkness, you said once again that we were going back in time to try to persuade you, and that's not true. I want my kid to get a job, my daughter's been out of work for over five years. Why? Because her mother-in-law won't let herself go to anyone and tell them to hire her because I know this isn't right. And that my child is suffering from this because I know it would be in the media tomorrow if it happened to KPK jumping in the air. Is that normal? And my daughter is one of the most honest and honest people, capable like everyone else, but because of her mother, she's in line and she's waiting for her chance. But we can only give this opportunity in the National Assembly to start working together for the same thing and in the right way. But the right way is not the red star, the right way is the right symbols, and let's not let some symbols of totalitarianism enter state institutions to enter national celebrations, so that someone can wave this flag and spit on the official, constitutionally defined symbol of this country. And that we cannot punish this nor punish or condemn it at academic or professional level. You're talking about the red star as if now a lot of people are suffering if we're talking about having to stop it. But a lot of people also suffer from this red star that they watch on television every day when we have a red star in our newspapers. The red star caused a lot of grief and suffering, including pain. We have – in my personal opinion – an extremely beautiful coat of arms with a flag, we have an anthem for which we have written that it is an hymn of Health, and we are divorcing again when we say that it is not appropriate to play the entire Health at national celebrations. Why not? I'd be happy to hear a toast in the National Assembly at the National Assembly. We used to teach her at school, but she wasn't our hymn at the time. Do they know all Slovenians and Slovenians today? No, not many. Whether we sing it with joy and patriotic awareness that the hymn actually represents our country and our pride. No, no, no. What is wrong with playing two kitts on official and other protocol matters where it is not possible to play the entire Medici. I don't see any issue with that. I really enjoy those parties where the second and seventh kitties are played, yes. But I'm even more happy to see the whole toast play. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let's once overstep the fact that you're talking about condemning a crime, condemning totalitarian systems. Let's start building on the values that we built on the foundations that we built in 1991. When I go to other former states of the SFRY, they tell me how you so glorify the symbols of former communism. Not often where you'll see these symbols in the other republics, rarely where. Not in the papers or on TV. Or that statesmen could afford to sing with joy and spit in Europe – and in that Europe that essentially gives them the money they ask on the other hand to give money. I know you laugh a lot, and I know why. Because you're not capable of dealing with our past. I have faced the past, and that is why I can also live in the present and look to the future. And I'm not traumatized, and today a lot of people are traumatized by a red star. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs Ramshak. Mr. Kurnjek, you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramshak, you've been looking at me all along. I just have to tell you that I'm so young, I haven't even had time to magnify a star yet, but I don't know how else to tell you. And if you've listened to my debate before, and if you've at least tried to understand it, then you've probably heard that I made a difference, what the sign means for a certain age, at a certain time; and what it means for someone else. Yes, a star as a sign of a revolutionary struggle, a revolutionary one, because it is a sign of communism, a totalitarian system, certainly not magnification, as I said. But as a sign of the partisan struggle for those still living participants, the partisans who also fought for the present country. How can we take away this symbol from these people? Look, I just don't understand it, and I don't want to go into some ideological fight, but I just don't understand how we can stop it by law. I can't imagine that. For me too, those real symbols of Slovenian symbols, although especially in my heart, are the most in the heart of the flag, which instead of the red star had a green lip leaf, which we boys then, I was 16 years old, on the eve of Statehood we sewed instead of a star and waved with that because we did not have the original flag at the time. Yeah, I grew up under Slovenian symbols, too. And for me, an anthem, any whale, means exactly the same thing, and unfortunately I can't agree with you when you said before, if people show enough patriotism when the hymn is heard when it falls or sings. I don't agree with that. And let it be performed by any guitar, and then I will tell you from outside the microphone an interesting thing that happened shortly ago, in connection with the implementation of the Slovenian anthem, where two kitties were carried out. And how these two kitts were reacting or not responding better. Why? Perhaps also because of the ignorance of 2 kitties from the 8th Slovenian anthem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u203	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Jože Tanko's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. I have before me a Resolution of the Assembly of the Council of Europe, No 1096, in the seventh paragraph, it is stated that the Assembly proposes that the offences committed by individuals during the communist totalitarian regime be prosecuted and punished; and that those who have abandoned any act at the time it was committed are also punished and criminalised in accordance with the general principles of law recognised by the civilized nations. Not only are those who have committed crimes punished, but also those who have abandoned their duties and have not persecuted them. This is what Resolution 1096 says on measures to eliminate the legacy of the former totalitarian communist regimes. That's her address. This resolution in the ninth paragraph also states: "The Assembly welcomes the opening of the archives of the secret public services in some former communist-totalitarian countries. It recommends that all affected countries allow affected persons, at their request, to review the records stored on them by former secret services." This is recorded in this document under point 9. Are things taking place in this country in accordance with these principles and recommendations? The State Secretary, who has a lot of work to do, could answer the previous 16 questions and will probably be able to answer the one that I have just asked. We witnessed the adoption by the European Parliament of a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. It was adopted on 2 April 2009 and also has many good recommendations. Let's say one is written under H and says it like this. "Because Nazism was the main historical experience of Western Europe and because they experienced both communism and Nazism in the Central and Eastern European countries; because it is necessary to promote understanding of the dual dictatorial legacy of these countries." He also says, "because Europe will not be united unless it is able to form a unified view of its history, unless it recognises Nazism, Stalinism and fascist and communist regimes as a common legacy, and if it does not carry out fair and in-depth discussions on their crimes in the previous century". So this document, which is very new, also speaks of some things that are also the subject of our discussion today. Point L, "because in 2009, re-unified Europe celebrates the twentieth anniversary of the breakup of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe and the fall of the Berlin Wall, which should be an opportunity to strengthen awareness of the past and to recognise the role of democratic citizens' initiatives, as well as an incentive to strengthen the sense of community and association". And I'm going to read just one more point, which also seems important to me, and also judges, as far as Slovenia is concerned, today. Point M says, "because it is also important to remember those who actively opposed totalitarian rule and who should have a place in the minds of Europeans as heroes of totalitarian times because of their sacrifices, loyalty to ideals, honor and courage". This is a document adopted by the European Parliament in 2009; this document was supported by all Slovenian Members in the European Parliament, regardless of the political profile, irrespective of the political group they belong to. A few days later, the National Assembly will host the President of the European Parliament, who is also president of European Socialists – Mr Martin Schultz. If you do not believe that this has actually happened in the European Parliament, you can ask him here. He will address the National Assembly and will also be an opportunity to ask questions to the President of the European Parliament; you can ask him to check the attitude of European Socialists towards the legacy of totalitarian regimes. That communication will not only take place among the political groups in the National Assembly, because we share our views on this. The European Parliament has adopted a document with a large majority, including with the support of European Socialists and Slovenian Members of the European Parliament – the Social Democrats who are in the European Parliament. All that we propose with the amendment of this law, you can see for yourself, is in total harmony with both resolutions. I think that nothing we have proposed on the symbols is inconsistent with the European Parliament's resolutions — not one or the other. This is the European context in which the solution we are proposing is put in place. Another thing about the Slovenian anthem. Previously, Mrs. Potrata said, not in a microphone, but in a colleague who used to say that Prešeren's Health is an art. True, it is an art – but this art is politically circumcised in the text of the Slovenian anthem. This art is created because the law is inconsistent with the Constitution and is inconsistent with because the text of the Zdravica is written in the Constitution. It's the same as if you'd put on some whole statue, but you'd say you'd only get your hand, and you'd break this statue and send it to some exhibit at some museum. That's exactly what you did – you broke the art. We do not suggest anything but that Prešeren's art be written in the original, in the entire text in the law. We're not proposing anything else. We do not propose any broken jar, we do not propose any broken statue, we do not propose any broken text or twisted text to be written into law. But we suggest you write down the whole text. And we suggest that the second and seventh kittens should also be used in short form. That's the way it is, ma'am, whatever you have to do with some things right now. I believe that it is necessary to write things down as necessary and as necessary. Some here say that the period before the period of independence was quite different, that it was a period of unknown happiness, bliss, and more. It was. It was for those who received regular weekly care from Gotenica; there was a list of those who received it. The top officials were ranked by category and received daily, three-day, one-weekly numerous ratings, receiving free apartments, villas of those who were exiled or killed. And their art. Something happened, and it was through the media machine that you managed to kill in consciousness that this was actually the case. However, that period was not so happy. Five years have not passed since we were an integral part of the winning team in World War II, our citizens have already been the most disrupted country in Europe in World War II. They went to Germany with a belly for bread. This country, which has been on its feet for five years, has also paid for war reparations during this period. We must also have a critical view of this period. There's a lot of evidence of what we got for free, but in fact, it's been paid for bloodyly, not for free. It was free for those who had the benefits; others were making it up in one way or another. I propose that our proposal also be supported because the existing law is one of the few that still has the penalties laid down in the Slovenian Tolars. One of the rare laws that has not yet been amended by these provisions. I have explained the context well enough, because this must also be put in the home and in the European context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Mr Jerko Čehovin is next, then Mag. You're wasting and Mr. Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you. Let me start by saying that today is the first time I've heard that art is inconsistent with the constitution. I haven't been familiar with this in 68 years, but good. Anything is possible in the National Assembly. About the anthem first. On 27 September 1989, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted and proclaimed amendments to the 1974 Slovenian Constitution, thereby pinning on Slovenian independence. The Constitutional Amendment 12 sets out in Article 1, the anthem of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia is Health. On 29 March 1990, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia – position of the section on 6 February 1990, proposal for an anthem – adopted a short Act on the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia which entered into force on 24 April 1990. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted on 23 December 1991, provided in Article 6: "Animal Slovenia is a Medici.".. The Constitution also states in the same article: "The use of coat of arms, flags and anthems is regulated by law." On this basis, on 27 February 1992, the Government laid down a proposal for a law, and in 1994 the National Assembly adopted the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. The law in the fifth article states that the seventh song by Francet Prešerna Zdravica is a song by the choir of the same name song by Stank Premrl. The implementation of the anthem is intended for the entire fourth chapter, Articles 20 to 24. The contents of the hymn are so fully defined and cannot be explained otherwise. In 2011, approximately the same group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jožet Tank tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. The proposal was not adopted in the vote. There were 74 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. At that time, the Society of Writers of the Initiative did not support music problems, but Janša’s Veteran Association supported it. Preshernoslovak Miran Hladnik says that it is much more patriotic if we follow traditions and symbols in national symbols, we do not change according to the daily needs of politics, because it is the constant that gives weight to symbols and the change achieves the opposite effect. "The identity that we are working so hard for then loses its meaning, because we are saying that we are not finished with it, it is counterproductive. Besides, who's looking at the anthems on the table?" Otherwise, the more primitive the company is, the more self-sufficient it is, replaced only by its own interests and preoccupied with the misinterpretation of its own identity. Developed companies are open to the outside, take foreign initiatives and are able to adapt to the environment. If we compare the life of a nation with that of an individual, obsessive concern for our own image is the characteristic of an adolescent. However, the life of a mature entity is filled with concern for another. So much for changing that. As far as the ban on totalitarian symbols is concerned, I think the SDS is essentially a distraction from the star. If we just look here at how many red stars there are world-renowned brands. I'm going to write: Converse, Levi's Star, Macys, Stars, Five Star, already mentioned Heineken, even All-Star Game, is playing under a red star in America, and American Movies, and Spanish Estella, Hong Kong Design Institute, and I could even list it. I just picked a few. It is wrong to think that a symbol defines a totalitarian regime. If I'm going to argue with those who are troublesome with the red star, I have to say that the symbol of communism is well known to all, sickle and hammer, not the red star. Here, on our side, no one has ever thought of giving any other symbol a problem. We also have, say, a six-legged star, we know who has it, we have a crescent, we have a cross, and I don't think anyone thinks that those symbols are the ones that killed. And if we keep going. In 1992, two armies with red stars were found on the opposite side; JLA and our Territorial Defense. And by June 26th, the police, who had replaced this symbol on their hats only after the announcement. Once again, the symbols you're trying to question here are, above all, symbols of resistance, resistance. Therefore, in this context, you should also look at the April 27th celebration, which you are so troubled about. This is a day of rebellion, and at such celebrations songs of resistance and rebellion are sung. You don't sing Ave Maria, no offense. And if someone in this song identifies himself and if we are some for whom the partisan struggle has been fought, which has also taken place under this symbol, go to Primorsko, go to Venice Slovenia, and you will see – on many facades there is still a red star, and unfortunately it remains on the other side of the border. It is important to know that under the red star — at least some parts of the country that are today an integral part of this country — have become independent. If the red stars and those who wore it were not, Slovenia would probably be in another country. I really tell you: If you want to change this legislation, then the path is just to seek consensus, as it happened when the anthem was adopted in the new constitution. At that time, all political parties accepted matters of consensus. The only solution is to continue to look and work for consensus, but not to make some laws without any agreement with other political actors in this country. Of course I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you very much. It's mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Let me first say that I am sorry that Mr Tank is not here because he said that we should ask the President of the European Parliament what he thinks about some things. I would ask myself how someone who spoke today about socialism as a totalitarian regime – Mr Grims, that was you – would be able to deliver a performance by the President of the European Parliament in this Chamber. Since Mr Tanko used the term "socialists" perfectly, he is known to be a member of the social democrats of the German state. But let's just leave it at the right place, and then we'll refer to it. It's a fundamental misunderstanding. It is that we mix the symbols associated with the history of the Slovenian people, the heroic history of the Slovenian people. Then we want to turn these symbols into occupation symbols or ideologies. These are two different things, and I will return to this matter when I return to the second article of the proposed law. I don't deny it to anyone else if he thinks otherwise than I think. But I would expect us to be able to provide enough truthfulness to provide accurate information. With regard to the 2009 resolution, it was said that we had adopted a declaration in the Slovenian Parliament that we were not the only ones to do so. I have in my hand a computer copy and I have data for 16 countries where this resolution was obviously not discussed at all because the European Parliament resolution is a resolution adopted. We have not adopted any European Parliament resolutions so far in the national Parliament. It is interesting to note, however, that the German Bundestag, on a human rights working body, took note of this resolution. And that a debate had been held in the Bulgarian Parliament on this resolution, that a draft resolution had also been prepared, but had never been adopted. So, Mr Horvath or Croat, next time you talk about what we haven't done, please, I think I've said this the fifth time, and nothing's gonna happen. It's like we're in a deaf box. Similarly, my colleague Ramšak would like to share with you some of the information that is below the peres of Dr. Milk Mikola's award-winning artist Dr. Milka Mikola, which is published in a very loving journal, and there is a history of data from World War II. You cited some figures and taught us historical facts that are a little different from what Dr. Mikol wrote here. He says: "As a result of World War II, during the occupation and immediately after the end of the war, for reasons related to war, some 98 000 inhabitants from the state area of today's Republic of Slovenia have lost their lives after the data now collected." This is 6.5% of the population, if we look at it this way, of the entire population, and this is one of the biggest losses in Europe. In the second point, it says, "The greatest casualties have been caused by the invaders", please – the invaders, "but they were also caused by Slovenians in the fight and reckoning, this is in the atmosphere and practice of the civil war that took place during the occupation. During the occupation, the internal dispute in Slovenia claimed about 13,000 500 deaths among members of various Slovenian armed formations and to a large extent also among the civilian population. After the war, the communist authorities blamed the death of more than 15,000 people in Slovenia." That's the information. The data are only explicitly stated for mutual accounts. If you sum this up together, there are 70,000 victims of World War II — the victim of the invader. And who cooperated with the invader and is also known from history. We are pleased to refer to the European Parliament's resolutions, and we are often forgetting the fundamental message of the 2009 resolution – that no political party should afford an explanation of history. And that's exactly what you always do, always do. When I hear that Slovenian history began in 1991, I admit that I am very proud of the establishment of the independent state of Slovenia, but history is much older. And if there were no Trubar, if there were no enlightenment and if there were no reading movement in 1848, Slovenian camps and much more, history would not have led to a place where the idea of freedom was ripe for the independence of the Slovenian people. And the idea of self - conquest was realized by the families of different thinking people. So he can't take his own patent over history, so that's definitely what you need to know. And now the experts. The Herald Society is one of the professional societies, but for questions related to the anthem, the expert opinions of musicians, literary historians are very important. And they told you something quite different than what you, Mr. Croat, attributed to me that I said the seventh kit was chosen because it was the most neutral. It's not true at all. I have a text written down, and I'm going to read it to you again. The selection of the seventh kitules from Prešernová Zdravica for the anthem was based on the majority opinion that the anthem should be as short as possible, that the seventh whale thickens all the essential elements and contains, in the presence of its broad population, also an intimate human and community national component. I will not now quote you any other professional opinions of musicians who believe that the Health Agency has different emotional positions in music and that the chemical mood is far more suited to the seventh kit. For hypnic ferment, however, it does not matter how long it takes, because hypnic fervor cannot last without knowing for how long, but the intensity of hypnic fertilization is important. If the SDS has constant problems with wanting to change the anthem, let it have constant problems with just getting the majority to support it, to gain a majority professional opinion, to gain the majority vote that this anthem received, as we have said, on various occasions, and is now written in our law. Now to the most important fact. You think you're solving the problem and don't solve it – you're creating it. If you insist that Prešeren’s only option is complete, and if you challenge the fact that the seventh kit is too small as an anthem, then this idea of the second kitt and the seventh kitt is equally unacceptable. Because it's also just a piece of an osmotic song, which is a healer. And now to what I am firmly convinced and in my opinion I have also spoken. The toast is Presher's art. In fact, it is an expression of enlightened ideas about brotherhood, equality and freedom, and perhaps the problem is that some do not want to agree to these postulates of a civilised Europe in order to give up this spectrum of values and agree to some other values. And if I'm talking about Dražica as an artist and she's a healer because she's prešeren by the doctrine of the last hand, the last published version of Prešeren's life was the title of Zdravica; the toast of the newspaper 1844 was the first song. And later, Presheren wrote more versions. But now to what we take Prešeren's Doctors as an art, if we want to fully implement it as an anthem. We're taking her own art life because as a whole she's not going to be a healer anymore, but she's going to have to be an hymn. This torment began at the celebration of 2012 when you performed four kitties for the anthem. And then they should not have been flags at the national celebration – it is only an introduction to what you now propose in marriage. Of course Robert Croat doesn't attach. I'll read it again if you don't know what you wrote in the marriage. Consider the second article of the Law. All totalitarian regimes, particularly fascism, Nazism or national socialism and communism, are prohibited. Now the continuation – and the public use of their symbols. Public use of their symbols! And the public glorification of their representatives. Well, we're at Franc Rozman Stannett's, and if you want to see him as a totalitarian, I see him as a national hero, and then we've got the Contingency problem. What's bothering you at that conservatory? He performed in Stožice, the award-winning Pevski chorus of Pinko Tomažič from Trieste and sang partisan songs. Does it bother you that at that event cantators or modern creators also performed a modern protest song? It's censorship, you know, my dears, if that's what you resent. And I don't recognize censorship in art and culture. The second paragraph below states: The use of the Slovenian anthem, coat of arms and or flag in connection with the symbols or representatives referred to in the preceding paragraph is prohibited. Dear Mr. Mag. Grims, it's not true what you said when I asked you what it means now if they're not allowed to use state symbols at partisan celebrations. And you said, "Where does it have to be used?" What are you telling us all the time? Can't you see what the second paragraph tells you that we can't use the flag at the star of the coat of arms, anthems and national flags because it's a prescribed punishment. The prohibition of the use of totalitarian system symbols is not applicable for the purposes of education under the educational programme – this is very interesting, we had a special session of the petition commission at the expense of the use of these symbols – and information, cultural events and museum collections. What, then, will be the national celebration at which the partisan banners will be used? But it's going to be some kind of educational program or maybe an informational program, or it's going to be some kind of museum event. Be serious. You're not solving the problem you were talking about. By the way, I was a member of the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There was also much debate on the use of symbols and they wanted to spread a set of prohibited symbols. It was not accepted. Why? Because the national uses of some symbols are so very different that you cannot with what is commanded. Interestingly, Estonia is one of those countries that is very active in the pursuit of symbols. And perhaps some Estonian might mention the historical role he played in one of the totalitarians. We cannot discuss these things in mind and spit on others and ask others to accept your views. How can I accept views that have no real basis, which are the falsification of historical facts, which are misleading people. I don't expect any of you to accept this, but I know we'll meet again on some occasion and we'll talk again about changing the anthem. Ask young people if they want the hymn to change, if they want the flag to change, if they want the symbols to change. If you do not cultivate the tradition of state symbols, all of them, if at least some of them, who have a historical function, are trampled into dust and mud, then you do not expect young people to have developed patriotic feelings. But I don't even want to think about those people who feel humiliated and offended because you're taking the symbols they've been fighting under. I don't know what you're gonna do. I don't know what you're gonna do. Will you ban the song Shivala is a little girl star, oh, star red like blood. Will you deny illegal printing, art, illegal theatre and similar things? Will you ban the partisan folk songs? At the time of their independence, the volumes of these songs were carried to Vevce, not to Mr Möderndorfer, because there is a mill there. I also remember how in Slovenian libraries, in the style of Cankar's dramatics, they cleaned libraries and threw a lot of things out of libraries. We've seen this before. And all that you're suggesting so well-intentionedly, all that happened in 2012, all that happened in the ZUJF. It can't be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I thought there'd be some problems. Procedurally, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u210	Madam President, I propose that you very seriously remind Mrs Potrato of the terms used, because she used the terms from spitting to other others, which I would rather not mention, because it was not nearly anything provoked, nor anything comparable to what has been said so far. This is something that is certainly embarrassing to her personally and to Parliament as a whole and does not belong in this room, but at least on the subject of discussion of state symbols and the fundamental values on which our country is based. If the lady had at least read the article carefully earlier, she could have eliminated some of the essential elements completely, because what she is so worried about are, of course, cultural events. There, as you can see in the third paragraph, this ban on use does not apply at all, and in fact, this problem, which she has been dealing with all the time and which has caused her to use so many bad words, is not at all. What this involves is public magnification at central public events. When it comes to a cultural event, let's say marking a story from a half-lived history, and there this limit does not apply precisely to that purpose, according to our proposal, to allow the memory to be aroused for those whom this story or these symbols mean something positive to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, mag. Spending. I will not remind Mrs Potrate, but I agree that quite a few strong words have been said, but Mrs Pate herself takes responsibility for her performance. Please proceed with procedure, Mrs. Potrata.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you, Vice President. They should be very precise, which words were such that in the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language are marked vulgarism or a bad term. Glagolitic spitting is a neutral word, but it's really non-civilistic to do it on people or on the ground. And what was said several times at the verbal level, and you were not in the hall at that time, what Mr Grims did in Mrs Jelusic's debate, but it was indeed a disgrace to Parliament. And if you remind me now that I have misused the procedural proposal, Vice-President, you have not mentioned in any way that Mr Grims, who has the opportunity to speak at any time, has done just that. But he's allowed everything. When you lead, all is permitted to the Esdes and you warn others and call for a beautiful language. I use the choral language, I use words that are not vulgar and not quantifiable, and I do nothing that would be embarrassing to the National Assembly. However, it is important to consider whether what took place today in the National Assembly has actually contributed to Slovenian national history and pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you. Very energetic again, Mrs. Potrata. I didn't remind you, I won't remind you, and I'm trying to have the same criteria and criteria for everyone. All I said was that you take responsibility for your performance. The viewers are watching, so they will probably give themselves an opinion on your performance and also about the performance of everyone else. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs Potrata, now may be the time to stop your observations and comments. But I can give you a chance to make a procedural proposal, and you'll say it in the microphone. Can I help you? No, no, no. Here you go, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u215	A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u216	It's a replica. Too bad it's a mag. Spending is no longer an option to answer to me. But no matter what I say, it would be a real contribution to national history if this law were supported today. I believe that we will never have the same criteria or the same opinions on Slovenian history, but the fact is that Slovenian history, the history of the country of Slovenia began in 1991. What you're saying belongs to another time, the state of Slovenia was created in 1991. And I wanted to replicate that when you mentioned that the European Parliament, with the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism adopted in April 2009, condemned all three totalitarianisms and thus their symbols. And when you said that a number of countries have not addressed this resolution, I must tell you that they have addressed this resolution in all the countries in which the totalitarian system was before the independence. Too bad you can't answer me anymore. But I said earlier in my debate, what you have said to me is that we are one of the few countries that has not formally confirmed this; and not that they have done all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Waste, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you. I do not know that what has now been declared a replica in any way would show that I misunderstood Mr Hroat. Or that he was changing. Even that's what I said. It's clear that we're not going, but it can't affect whether I'm going to take it or not. But now, with what I'm stressing again, it's unacceptable that you're contradicting the facts. Bulgaria discussed this and did not accept anything. The Czech Senate did not discuss; there is no data for the lower house. Then I have information here that you're saying that it must be just those countries that have gotten rid of totalitarianism. Lithuania did not discuss this. It is true, however, that it declared August 23rd as the European Day of Remembrance of Victims. Poland, there is no data on the debate, neither in the Senate nor in the lower house has Romania discussed this. Slovakia – there is no data to discuss this. What else am I supposed to say? Now let's be convincing or not. This is from European sources, who has discussed this resolution and who has not. And this is what I am protesting against you deceiving people with incorrect data and allegations – and this takes away your credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you very much. This was an extensive interpretation and a little less procedural proposal. I hope that this debate will, however, lead to the end. Mr. Tomaž Lisec is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you, Madam President. For the last two minutes, I wonder if it's even worth talking about after such a huge performance by my colleague, Potrate, who can be admitted to her verbally and verbally, congregationally correct spelling and stuffing everything else for everyone else. It's hard to talk, uh, really hard. I must say that after hearing some good debates, although they were against the law – Mr Kurnjek, Mr Kunič, very substantive debate, very calm, certain concerns and also reasons why they would be against the law – but they could be listened to because they were on some level. Ms Majda Potrate, however, dissected the hymn or the text of the articles from article to article. It seemed to me that she almost escaped into our brains and wanted to tell us what we wanted to do with the law or to present or convince you that marriage is good material. When we answer about how the anthem is exclusively performed at the national celebrations, she saw some specialities, some of her theories on when and how it will be implemented. I think we all know what state holidays are and what state celebrations are. The event in Stožica was not a state event and is not a state holiday. So many ladies to look into a note. And then we wrote that, on other occasions, it can also be used in short form, which includes the second and seventh bouquet of songs. I have already said in the position of the Group of Members that there may be problems with what we have now that we are not even in conformity with the Constitution. We are not talking about us being unconstitutional, but we are not fully in line with the Constitution. As I said before, we're not talking about the first, second, third, and not the last pixie, but about all the pixie that the Constitution is talking about. And when we talk about it, there may be problems like the problem in Sochi, and again, there are reasons why it's not possible, how it can't be done, and I don't know what. I think that we have also heard good three hours of debate today because of the reasons given by the five veins, something that can't be done, except that it can't be done. In the second article, we make it clear that the public enlargement of all totalitarian regimes is prohibited. And we're hearing about Heineken, and I don't know what. Magnification of all totalitarian regimes. I like to drink Heineken beer myself, and for me, their red star is no totalitarian regime, and I'm not going to stop drinking it because there's a red star. It is true, however, that it is publicly prohibited to magnify all totalitarian regimes, their symbols and the public payment of their representatives. It's perfectly normal. Moreover, we wanted to be somehow consensual to avoid being attacked by this paragraph: banning the use of the symbols of totalitarian systems does not apply for the purposes of education in accordance with the educational programme, information, cultural events and museum collections. And again, there are reasons for what a cultural event is, what is an educational system and what is not. Once again, the Hives were not part of a cultural event that would fit into this concept. And then, the third article – implementation of the provisions of this law is supervised by the police. When we asked the former ministers, as well as the current minister, several times through the questions sent, whether they had any levers where they could punish someone, it was by waving the former Yugoslav totalitarian symbols or swastika or any other symbol; and they said no, we have no copies. Now that we have our first hearing, because we want to settle this, there are different ways that this will not be resolved. We know it's hard to solve something if you're part of the problem and not part of the solution. This has already been disputed for some that we have written Euros instead of Tolars and made fines purely in accordance with all the legislation we are enacting, not only in this mandate, but also in previous governments – and that is already the problem. When we talk about road rules, when we talk about forests, when we talk about what we don't know, we let the penalties go and we don't touch them at all. It would be interesting to see how many punishments the rebels would receive in the past years, but they could not get them, and they were joyfully exploiting and challenging the Slovenian authorities. There was a lot of talk about how we should consult the professional public. When Robi Hrovat mentioned one part of this professional public, of course it was not real again. I think if my colleague Robi Hrvat said that this audience was hidden among the rebels and was present at the event at the Stations, then this consultation would probably be given a green light and would be a real consultation. There was a lot of talk today about the hymn itself. One of them dissected her pretty well, especially this part of how the seventh kittie covers everything. Every Slovenian, every patriot, and I don't know who's gonna be in it. And the more I look at the whole eight kitties, the only thing I have to say is that the only thing in the 7th kitt is, if you have a lot of imagination, it's hard to find something about Slovenia. And once again, when I read the entire cure, I know why the problem is the second feline. We are talking about Slovenia and we are talking about Slovenian mother; in 1844 written about Slovenian mother. Then, the post-festum was wrong for someone and he wrote famous mothers. And even more, it's blasphemous inside, twice written the word God. When you say "communist" in Slovenia, you can clap when you say "God," but you're a right-wing extremist, that's the real state. There's been a lot of talk about the country, and I don't know what about Kranj. What do you know about Kranjska? When we are talking today about Kranjska, a number of Croats, if you could watch or listen to us today, you would not agree with our Kranj country. I know where she belonged south and what her history was like. And again, it doesn't suit anyone. Perhaps if we wrote: Komú first a merry toast, brothers! Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Our God is our Slovenia, God knows not what, but he would again find some reason not to fit in this verbal relationship. [[…]] In short, there's something wrong with every sentence. But what's most funny, some representatives said: we should coordinate, we should look for consensus. In the next sentence, they say: But you will never get our consensus. Such a consensus is really hard to get, especially because some who want to create their own part of history, to put it in their tracks, then always point over this parliamentary hall: No, no, you abuse it and I don't know what. I must say thank you to all those who have contributed to a constructive debate. But to all those who have poured out their bile and ideological thoughts again, and when they say that we cannot reason on our minds, we cannot deceive, we cannot fabricate facts, and they themselves do exactly that — these are really difficult to answer. Once again, all totalitarian regimes. I don't know why social democrats found only a star as a problem. I believe they have it multiple times in front of their eyes, but we're not a star a totalitarian symbol. There are many others, but colleagues from the Positive Slovenia Group were at least so rational and fair that they also mentioned a broader aspect, as did colleagues from the Social Democrats. Yes, red color, as my colleague Vogrin would say, would be blasphemous to think about what it rounds around social networks at least three times a day, but it may not be a question of whether it is true red, blue and white. However, instead of the uniforms of the Slovenian team of various sports, they might replace a certain color in the Slovenian flag. But that would probably be blasphemous, because what was said was done was done. There is no constitution, no law that you could change, because as it was said, until you comply with us — and you will never — you will not be able to do that, even though we can be sure of the role played by the red star in 1941, 1991, when the star had a completely different connotation. In short, obviously nothing can be forbidden, despite the fact that almost every marriage forbids something. Here, when we step a little closer to some values, to values of patriotism, there is a red color in someone's eyes and they say, no, totalitarian symbols, totalitarian regimes, their carriers, and so we can't be banned; so we keep talking about this as little as possible with our story. Apparently, this story will soon continue with some sort of red flag mass of the former system in Colossae. Well, don't worry, Mrs. Potter, you won't see me there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Would you like a word, Mrs. Potter? Of course I will. I would really like to ask you to calm down and not comment from the bench. Mr Möderndorfer is next to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. We have been talking for a long time today about a proposal in which the SDS party has proposed certain changes. And the debate showed that in the National Assembly, which is in fact a reflection and a representative body of the people, that the people are not yet united on this issue. Why it is not uniform, but of course it is a matter of time. I remember the day that the National Assembly — at that time in the Assembly — held a debate, it was in a hurry, and the time was running out for the MPs or delegates to accept the symbols of the new country. One of the discussions was very interesting when the flag was accepted. At that time, the delegate of the congregation, Joseph Školč, pointed to one thing — this is the time. In fact, at the time it was all over, we were all proud, and now I'm going to talk about the MPs of that time. The atmosphere led to one of the things that must happen in every sovereign and independent country to determine its attributes, its apostolic or coat of arms, such as the flag, an anthem. And there was quite a bit of controversy about how she would look, how she wouldn't look, what was right, what was wrong. Today I don't intend to have any valuable judgments, because that doesn't even matter, today is a flag like it is. I am very pleased and happy and proud every time I see it, because I know it speaks of Slovenia. But he pointed out the following: "Let us think, if this is really the right choice, that it is the right choice, as it is, because later, when this is accepted, it will be very difficult to fix or change anything." Of course, the plaza of the ostracists has waned, not to support Slovenia, independence, an independent state, and I don't know what else. In the end, this flag was accepted. Today, I have this honor or dishonor, depending on how we view this topic, that we have been talking for more than 20 years after this about changing or even banning certain symbols. That is why I recall this warning that it is not really true that people or generations who have set symbols, that these same symbols are already changing themselves. Do you know why? Because they are too burdensome, too much mortgage, because every thing and any change can be very sensitive to the individual social groups that this country has. This is very important to me. I think that we have simply not matured in this country, that we can be serious, without accusations, without anything to talk about change, because things are still alive and are too strong. But I must say that I am reminded of such a change about – I don't know how much you remember it, the one who watched Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's film when Mozart staged his play Figaro Franco Joseph – of course not this Figaro. But when he described what he was going to do, he surprised him and came in during the exercise while they were practicing the Figaro show. And what happened? This show was on stage without music, they were just dancing. Then he pointed to the following — what are they doing? And he told him not to use music. And who determined it – Franz Joseph. So, we have to think about it a little bit. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Möderndorfer. Does a representative of the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then, as the last discusser in this part, the proposaler of mags is still on the table. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u224	Thank you. Again and again, it shows how deeply knowledge is present in all of us, but it is kept secret by some in every way. When we discuss symbols, we are really discussing the fundamental values of this country, our community, our values and, above all, the fundamental development issue facing Slovenia today. For if we have the whole state's summit, which carries out a real orgy under some totalitarian symbols; who performs something that is supposed to be a national celebration, without the single state flag itself, which would be visible on the screen, because it is a direct broadcast of television, without the European flag itself, and which is an enthusiastic applause when someone says on the stage that Europe is a gang of thieves – this is the Europe that has now sent 600 aid trucks to them when Slovenia is harmed by the capture, and would earn at least a great apology, but I think a great thank you – then something with such a country is very wrong. And anyone looking for a business partner who wants to invest somewhere when he sees this picture, when he hears what these people are talking about, when he sees what kind of picture they're under, he'll just turn his back and go somewhere else. And what happens then is that such authorities do not remain but they owe themselves more and more and more, and this shows up as some success, but, of course, with its failure, its complete indevelopment, its inability to develop yet on the shoulders of the next generation. That is why this is a fundamental development issue. As long as Slovenia is in the eyes of others who do not respect European values, which is a red totalitarian exot, everyone looking for business partners will run away from our beloved Slovenia. But don't blame the state. Someone from the coalition said this morning that Slovenia as a country was extremely disappointed. No, Slovenia has not failed, Slovenia is a wonderful country and has won the war. She's made her own way, which is a fantastic achievement. But she disappointed the power of the transition left, a long-standing power from bad to worse and led to the current debt, which for poor Slovenia is already comparable to what once applied to the whole of Yugoslavia, which was part of Slovenia. As large, as severe, as rapid a person's head debt as it has been recorded in Slovenia in the last period under the transitional left, it cannot be compared with any country in Europe. Many times it appears, say, to neighbouring Italy, that it is even more indebted – already, but 70% of their debt is internal. Even when they're paying for it, the money's going to be turning inside the country, and we've got a long way to go. The money will go out and our successors will therefore all live significantly worse. Therefore, the issue of symbols and values is also a fundamental development issue for Slovenia. It is important to be aware of what Europe is. Europe is a modern democratic community that has emerged from the ruins of totalitarianism of all kinds of the 19th and 20th centuries. Three were in charge, these were mentioned, and they had their symbols. Modern Europe could only be formed when the last one fell among them, either communism or real socialism, as he was told. But when it comes to persevering, because it was also said today, because you don't know which symbols are. You know, the sickle and hammer and the red star were symbols of socialism or real socialism if you want. The Hooking Cross was a symbol of national socialism; it is both socialism, only internationalism, and it is nationalism. I don't know how much difference there is for everyone who's doing this. But they're all totalitarians. Add to them fascism some forms of military dictatorships that have been characteristic of the 20th century, and all the forms that modern political science recognises as forms of totalitarianism. And so don't say you don't know what these symbols are. What we are proposing is that we respect the consistent value of patriotism and that this should also affect people's upbringing. Education must also be based on values. We all agree in our words when it comes to values. All the presidents of the country, regardless of orientation, spoke of the value of patriotism. It was stressed by all political parties. Interestingly, only some of us have written it as one of our truly fundamental values, which we give it a special weight. But the values of patriotism are not expressed in words, the values of patriotism are expressed in actions not to do stupid things that are objectively harmful to the country. And that bravado, which was under some of the symbols of totalitarianism, where statements were inappropriate for a country which is an integral part of the association of Europe, the euro area, Schengen, are objectively Slovenes and Slovenes, to all citizens, to all citizens, to all the inhabitants here in great harm because they are the reason why those seeking business partners are fleeing. They make us all worse. These are acts that are not consistent with the value of patriotism. That is why this debate on symbols is also a debate on values and, particularly, on fundamental development issues. We do not suggest in any way that you alter the symbols in any way, because some of you have insisted — far from it — on the contrary. We do this in order to respect them consistently, but do not change the texts that have already been adopted, such as in the Constitution. In addition, it was suggested that a very interesting view was that no party should afford an explanation of history. Nobody should have a patent on history, it was said. Good morning. Who's closing the archives today? This is precisely why we insisted that the archives should remain open, that data should be available, who gave orders for the crimes, who carried them out. And that they cannot be made equal in anonymity — for this is the purpose of the current change of law — those who committed crimes, gave orders for them, carried them out; and those who were victims. This is unacceptable and non-European; Article 7 of resolution 1096 explicitly states that the archives of the secret polices of the totalitarian regimes should be kept open. This is also a symbolic question, for you can only understand the symbols in the light of knowing the whole event if this event is partially manipulated or incomplete. Then, of course, you can't really evaluate things, so it's so important that history doesn't repeat itself. What I wanted to stress in this particular regard is that the Constitution makes it very clear that the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia is the entire Medici. And somehow I don't understand why it's such an objection to this being made as a rule, if that's a constitutional rule that you can't deny or destroy in any way, unless you change the constitution. To say that this is a constitutional custom and that is how the law was adopted. The law is clearly inconsistent with the Constitution, that is, I think, clear to everyone you discussed today. And it's a beautiful song. I don't know why we'd be ashamed of these songs, why don't we just afford it ourselves when it's so beautiful. It's a cultural holiday in two days. The song, which is in some ways also a symbol of the poet himself, is one of his most beautiful and most beautiful works, sings about all. I don't understand those women, the girls you were here today against that would apply the principle, which is otherwise enshrined in the Constitution, that the Medication of the hymna of Slovenia is entirely. This would make it part of the Slovenian anthem also that verse: God lives the village of Slovenka, beautiful yellow flowers; there is no bride like our blood girl. Are you embarrassed? You're beautiful. You're smart. And I don't understand those men who were against it. Or because then the song goes on to say, "Let the sons." [[…]] [[Breed new]] You'll be afraid of the enemy. They're afraid of competition, aren't they? These objections to having a constitutional norm spilled into marriage and adopted together, in something that should be a consensus, are truly incomprehensible to me. At any rate, I can only congratulate everyone at this moment on the Slovenian cultural holiday, with the hope that this knowledge will mature – if not today, for the second time. And for the end, just a little while back to a more serious subject. To what should be a common message. Earlier, it was explicitly said that it was offensive or any worse terms were, what I said when one of the Members spoke. And I said nothing but that any symbol can be interpreted one way or another. Even the creaky cross, I said, has had a positive significance for thousands of years because it was considered a symbol of happiness in the eastern sects and is at their shrines. There, young couples take pictures before this symbol. But every human being here, every normal person, gets cold on his back when he sees it because he remembers the indescribable crimes that this symbol symbolized. And the same goes for everyone else, so I've given some examples. Some explain for at least one symbol that they understand it differently, but if they are symbols that can be understood in this way and otherwise, they are symbols that separate. Therefore, we should achieve some fundamental civilisation consensus at one point that crime is a crime regardless of who does it, on behalf of which ideology and under which sign. Every crime is worth a conviction, and every victim is worth all the honor and recognition. If we once accepted this starting point, we would certainly be united in all fundamental European values. Nor is it possible to magnify the symbols of totalitarianism, the bearers of totalitarianism, all that has happened in Slovenia. Slovenia is moving away from Europe, Europe is doing otherwise and has also written this in its declarations. And since Slovenia does otherwise in this case, because it does not respect it, it costs it very much developmentally and therefore [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you very much. That concludes the first part. All the debaters got the word. However, since the time for discussion is still available, I am opening the way for you to apply for a re-examination in the rest of the time. Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u226	Thank you, Vice President. Let me begin by thanking you for the concern that my onset brings and when you knock on my conscience that I have to take responsibility for my performances myself. I've never taken responsibility for anyone else. I'd expect you to follow my performances so closely, and you're bothered by all sorts of things in them, but you might just notice that the word "word" is a bad word. Mr. Lisec used the word "wording" for my reasoned performance. The fact is that this is a poorly prepared law, that there are more holes in it than good solutions, that it is in disharmony with itself because if there is only a seventh whale in conflict with the Constitution, then it will be in conflict with the Constitution, according to your logic, even the second and seventh kitties. In all cases, only the entire Medici can be performed, that is six and a half minutes. Otherwise, it will happen that people will lose weight under the weight of the text they will need to know, even to Mr Grimes, something is lost in memory, but that's another story. Scoring — yes or no, but you need to know what you wrote in your marriage. I cannot find anywhere in this proposal which symbols will be persecuted. The use of which symbols will be punished? What I can understand from the proposaler's point of view is that he is disturbed by the event in the Colossae, the red flag and the red stars. That's all. I really don't know what the symbols of socialism are, because according to Mr Grims, socialism is also a totalitarian regime. And the reference to Europe, the European Parliament and the European Union are also parties that bear the name of the Socialist Party. There are also parties bearing the name of a Communist party. What are you gonna do with these? How will you cooperate with them, or will you simply eliminate them? What's going to happen to those things? I have already read to you twice the second article, the text of the second article, read what you have written in your explanatory memorandum to the second article. The Slovenian anthem, coat of arms or flag shall also not be used in conjunction with the symbols of totalitarian systems or their representatives. And we continued to hear today that the event in the Colossae was under totalitarian symbols. This law of yours does not even allow you to use other state symbols. Because I don't know how you classify this event. The law is completely nonconsistent. It's impossible to accept. And if I can still accept your comments on my speech, I've given up trying to understand what I'm trying to tell you. But there is something that needs to be said. That what Mr Lisec was doing at the end of his last performance with the text of Prešeren's Zdravevica is not appropriate. From an educated average, I would expect more respect for the poet's text. You can do whatever you want with me because I'm so strong, I can defend myself. He's overdressed and he can't defend himself. And what Mr Lisec said, that's disrespectful, he would just move the text left, right, change a little bit, write a little bit, replace a little bit. And he resents that because he probably doesn't know that in the process of artistic creation there is something most normal, that the lyrics have different variants or records. And that should direct us to great responsibility and concern for treating these words with respect, treating them with responsibility, not tearing them to pieces, and banalizing them. That's disrespectful, and I think if there's anything to be said, it's for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u227	Thank you very much, mag. It's a waste. We continue the debate. Mr. Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Madam President. What I didn't finish before, I'm going to say a little differently. Because it seems that my illustrations were not the most understood of what Franz Joseph did with Mozart’s Figar or his exercise when he wanted to bring his art to its end. In fact, he couldn't. Now, a little bit, really. In fact, today's debate has shown that the applicant simply did not choose inappropriate time, inappropriate content, to go ahead with such a change. Mr Tanko wanted to say this in some illustration and used the expression not to suggest anything but a requirement to do as the Constitution requires or requires art on its own. Look, it's not about what you're asking and you're demanding a very simple thing. The point is that you are actually bringing renewed unrest and discord between Slovenians and Slovenians. Your story of how you really want to use words and generalize that we can't even be ashamed, because that's nice, because we're talking about this pride and honor. You're forgetting the point, even though we all know you don't really forget. This is completely planned and systematic. You tried that two years ago, you're trying now and more. You predicted that you would not fail, but that you would continue to do so. So we expect it in some order, although sometimes when you start repeating it, it happens later. Within one year, we are looking forward to discussing again the same topic as how to delete things that you do not actually like. And personally, I have to tell you, I'm looking at at least ten stars here today from my point of view, they're beautiful to me, and I admire them, and I keep wondering why these stars are so unhappy, what they've done wrong in this House, that we keep dealing with them. That's right. These stars make it very difficult for us to remember and honor all those who have died for this country. I'm afraid you call that not the case, even more. You even claim that Slovenians and Slovenes have only existed for more than 20 years. I simply cannot land, and Slovenia and Slovenia – it has been very clear – exist much longer and we have much longer our history. And we have much longer of our roots. But it's clear to me, there's a teflon on this side, and the teflon usually rejects everything. Always and always. But when a teflon gets hurt, it gets stuck, so I have to be and I'm persistent. I hope that one day you too will be caught, don't stir and quarrel between Slovenians and Slovenians. There's no need. Even though you have such a pure thought and a pure purpose, people do not understand it that way. They understand that you're dealing with discord, and that's the wrong thing to do. This is bad for Slovenian society. That is why I also suggest to you, the proposer, that when you say this, and if you speak frankly, then first think about the consequences of your proposals. And that's why I tried to explain it to you earlier, and you can't hear me say we need some time. Generally, symbols never change those who have created them. Always generations later, because they work with some critical distance and are not burdened by what you are burdened with. That's the problem. That's the problem. Admit it yourself. Oh, yeah. Mr Grimes said that we are really talking about fundamental values. No, we're talking about symbols, but there is something. The fundamental values are those that eventually lead us to the symbols. And that's your problem, because you always go into values that you say only from your perspective. Slovenians are different and thank God we'll stay different, because if we're not different, then we'll become unanimous [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] What you're most afraid of. [[…]] But unfortunately, that's what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Master Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u230	Thank you. When it comes to the question now mentioned, it is not just our perspective. It is also our perspective, and above all it is a European perspective, because Europe says that all totalitarianism must be condemned with the same degree, that all are equally worthy of contempt and regret, that all crimes are crimes and that all victims are worthy of all honour. This is a fundamental issue of values. Europe says that archives should be open, that they should not be closed, that it is necessary to know who gave the orders, that it is necessary to know who committed the crimes and that it is necessary to talk about them. This is explicitly stated in one of the declarations because history does not repeat itself. When we talk about values, these are not just our values, they are also European values. And European values are the end of the values of the democratic world. And if you move away from this part here, then look very clearly at your image in the mirror, because then there's something wrong with the democratic world, with Europe, with us; but probably with someone else. What is present today from the beginning is that this is not just a debate about symbols. The symbols are always something that shows values, which symbolizes the state, symbolizes values as what is the foundation of each community, the foundation of each country. And when we talk about it, we touch on the very foundation of our statehood. And the question is whether this is in line with Europe, whether it is in line with democratic principles that the entire democratic world respects or deviates from. And here is our country's problem, that it still has double criteria, that it still has one of totalitarianism and its actions at least tries to cover, if not otherwise, the archives close. On the other hand, he justifies everyone else. But it is necessary to condemn everything, to have the same relationship with everyone, and that is why we have this proposal here too. Because, unfortunately, what happened to this country happens to you that you have an indirect national celebration where there is no visible national symbol. It is happening in a country which is an important, equal member of the European Union, also confirmed by a plebiscite decision – a referendum where there was no symbol of this European community. Then something's really wrong. But there were many symbols that we understood as symbols of totalitarian regimes. Before that, it was pretty much like watching some parties if they were democratic parties. We are not talking about the symbols of democratic parties; we are talking about the symbols of totalitarian regimes, that they should not be publicly magnified and that key institutions should not be publicly magnified. You can also read about the image of one who was in the Colossae, reading the statements of the survivors, that he had a special flash and a smile in his eyes when he was sending a bullet to the head of those who had previously been rescued by his soldiers. In the cleansing that followed the revolution, and that was a particularly strong smile when it came to women. And he was on stage across the flag. But he has, in history, changed some symbol of the revolution, just as everything has already gone wrong when it comes to those regimes. And hardly anyone knows this other side of the medal, which everyone might know; then we would know things in real terms from all angles. And that's why it's important that these things really be evaluated. If we once have such a problem that the entire state leadership participates in an event where there are no national or European symbols, but are symbols of the totalitarian regime, then of course everyone seeking a business partner turns away from such a country. He believes that something with her is wrong, that there is an investment in him, his money will not be respected because they do not respect the same values that he respects. As a result, such a country cannot take advantage of its development potential; that is why we are all living worse in such a country because it is not developing economically. The government that does this has no other way out than to owe and still owe and then try to mediaically convince people that it is a success. What a success it is to bring into disaster all the next generation. Therefore, the issue of symbols and values is a fundamental development issue for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-05-SDZ6-Redna-22.ana.u231	Mr. Grimes, time's up. But Mrs. Potrat can't help but comment. This concludes today's debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Thursday, 6 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 3. 2014, in the context of the vote. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. All continue to have a nice evening!
