ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Ludmila Novak from 17:00 onwards, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Joseph Horvat and Mag. Matthew Tonin between 12:00 and 1:00. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 10 October 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the agenda item or the proposal to extend the agenda, so I suggest to the assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 20. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it that the agenda for the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT AND VOLUNTARY COMMISSION ON THE MANAGEMENT OF THE Member. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All my colleagues have a good day! First, I would like to ask you, or I would like to get an explanation of what the decision in the procedure on 8 August was and which was then read twice by the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission on 9 October. He read it to me in the process and also to Mr Janez Janša in the substantive part of the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. This is a decision: Ambassador John (Ivan) Janša does not terminate his term of office and can perform his duties as a Member of Parliament. Let me point out that this decision was neither out of the procedure nor withdrawn, has not been amended and has not been voted on. Given that, at the beginning of the meeting on 9 October, it was said twice that this decision was in progress and that this is the only decision that exists, I ask you to explain what actually happened in the procedure of the Mandate-Electorial Commission with this cited decision. I believe that it is only possible to eliminate such a decision by withdrawing it — this has not happened — that the decision is being amended and is then substantially amended or that the decision in the vote is rejected. None of this happened on 9 October on the Commission's terms of reference. Mr President, I ask where the proposed decision went, which was no longer in place at the vote below the 1st urgent meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u3	My explanation will be as follows. I convened this meeting on the basis of what the Mandate-Election Commission delivered and which was adopted at the College of the President of the National Assembly. So let me actually read the whole thing, and then, in fact, if you want another procedural one, I'll give you another chance to put the matter in motion. But I think that much of what you're asking is actually contained under this first point that I have to read before I give anyone a word. Please. This is therefore the 1st item of the agenda, which was included on the basis of what was concluded at the College of the President of the National Assembly, which is the consideration of the report of the Commission on the mandate of the Member. On the basis of the third indent of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission shall be empowered to inform the National Assembly of the cases which result in the termination of the mandate of the Member. At its 1st urgent meeting, the Commission found that the reason for the termination of the term of office of Mr Janez (Ivan) Janša was given on the basis of the third indent of Article 9(1) of the Law on Members, taking into account also the provision of the third paragraph of the same Article, which provides that the Member of the Parliament shall not terminate the term of office provided that the Assembly decides that it is in a position to act as a Member. The Commission has drawn up a report on the matter, in which it proposes that, pursuant to the third paragraph of paragraph 3 of Article 9 of the Law on Members and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it vote on the following proposal for a decision: Ambassador John Janša, irrespective of the existence of the reason referred to in the third indent of Article 9(1) of the Law on Members, does not terminate the mandate of a Member and may act as a Member. In the event that the National Assembly of this proposal does not adopt a decision, it is proposed that, on the basis of the third indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision be taken: It shall be established that Mr Janša has been sentenced by a judicial decision to a non-conditional term of imprisonment longer than six months, in accordance with the third indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members, the term of office of a Member shall expire on today. I inform you that the SDS Group has tabled an amendment to the proposal for a decision published on the e-club. Now I've explained that part before I give the word to the commission myself. Do you want to go through the procedure again? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I take it you haven't answered my question. I'm asking you where the decision that was read was lost, and it's in the magnetogram of session 8. 8. This is called the 1st meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, and was read twice by the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, Dr. Horvat, at the meeting on 9 October. Once in the process, and twice in the content part of the agenda, he considers Mr Janša. This decision was as follows: Ambassador Janez (Ivan) Janša does not terminate his term of office and can perform his duties as a Member of Parliament. I have warned that this decision has not been voted on or voted on, has not been amended and has not been withdrawn from the procedure at the meeting of the Commission on Elections. I just want to clarify, Mr President, what happened with the decision in question on the Mandate-Election Commission that none of this has been voted on or done in this regard and the decision has not been put to the vote. Also from the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission I have before me, and the proposal is supposed to be the basis for decision-making and debate at today's meeting, this is not the case. If you cannot determine or explain what happened to this decision, someone else should explain it. But you have a duty to explain to us what happened at these two meetings of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that the proposed decision, which Dr. Horvat read twice, and at the meeting itself on August 8th, disappeared that it did not exist. I believe that you have been Members of the Coalition in the work of the Mandate-Electorial Commission unheeded because you are pursuing only one objective. However, things, as I understand them and as set out in the Rules of Procedure, need to be handled properly. It is said that the decisions proposed must be voted on, these decisions can be amended, decisions can be withdrawn. None of this has happened with this conclusion. Before we proceed with other issues related to this agenda item, including procedural issues, Mr President, I propose that someone explain them accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u5	My explanation will go the next way. What I know and what I am procedurally responsible for are the meetings of this National Assembly, and also this extraordinary meeting. This was called upon on the basis of a report prepared by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. What was happening on the Mandate-Election Commission itself, and I cannot even supervise myself as President, and such conclusions would have been reached if they had not been reached to the end, and what you claim should in fact have been found on the Mandate-Election Commission itself. If there has been any procedural errors in the functioning of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, I would ask you to contact the Rules of Procedure Commission to determine what has actually occurred and how to proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure itself. However, this meeting, which we have convened today, has been convened on the basis of what has already been done and voted, i.e. the material prepared by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. However, as the whole process has been carried out, I will not explain to you at this point and it is possible to request such an explanation on the mandate-voluntary committee itself, where you certainly had this option. But if it was not given to you, then one would expect you to actually complain, as I said, to the one who is supposed to explain the appropriateness of the procedure, and this is the Rules of Procedure Commission. This is what I know and what I stand for. We had and had a fellow Member's discussion at the College of the National Assembly with the interpretation of individual cases. And there was a decision that I did not take alone, because there I do not take my own decisions. The College of the National Assembly has decided that today this is the agenda item, and I think there is nothing more I can explain about this. Procedural. Different from who it is now?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Among the Members present in the National Assembly is also the President of the Mandate-Volution Commission, who convened the 1st urgent meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission and the 1st resumed the 1st urgent meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission. He's also the one who's the one who's painted red here, that's the 8th session. 8, and then read twice below. You've got all of this in the session magnetograms. If you, Mr President, cannot explain this problem that has arisen, then the person who has led this meeting can do so. If you cannot explain, I immediately suggest that you suspend the meeting and prepare an appropriate explanation. The President of the National Assembly is the one who is responsible for the implementation of this Rules of Procedure, and if you are warned that there have been procedural errors in the work of the working body that has prepared the report and is the basis for this only item of the agenda today, you are obliged to verify, identify and respond appropriately. It is unworthy, however, that anyone, even if it is the President of the National Assembly, on the basis of warnings which are relevant and which are verifiable from the magnetograms of the two meetings of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, find out and find that one decision has been given to the procedure and has not been decided on, nor has anything happened to it, has been withdrawn, has not been amended, has not been Nothing. Mr President, I request an explanation of how this could have happened at such an important point in the agenda as the withdrawal or termination of the mandate of Member Janez Janša. Here you have engaged a top-level legal profession, which did not even want to come to the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission or perhaps even was not invited, and despite these warnings, you do not clear this up and find out what happened to this matter. This means that there are no warnings in the National Assembly that we are referring Members of any party to the President of the National Assembly, who is in this case the one who will be taking the meeting. If you are unable to explain the reasons why this has happened or what has actually happened in the course of both meetings of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, then something is very wrong. I believe that either you or anyone else in this National Assembly are obliged to explain why the decision was not put to the vote and was not withdrawn. The President of the Commission of Elections, Dr. Horvat, can probably explain this because he was the one who led the session from the beginning to the end. I demand an explanation, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u7	In view of the fact that the first is in line for the supplementary explanation of the decision itself, precisely this President of the Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat, I propose that, in fact, these two matters be brought together because it would be normal for the first to come to the floor, but I may ask Mr Horvat to explain the matter to his colleague Tank. Dr. Mitja Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u8	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. The proposal for a decision drawn up for the 1st urgent meeting was supplemented at the following 1st urgent meeting, and is contained in the first decision on which we voted on the Mandate-Electorial Commission and we also have it on the table for this meeting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u9	Thank you. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it's an important substantive difference. Mr Horvat proposed a decision to vote on. This is a decision that reads as follows: Mr Janša does not terminate the term of office of the Member and may act as a Member of Parliament. But what Mr Horvath has now said relates to the proposals for conclusions, this is something that does not have the status of the decision, as you will see and are also designed for the meeting of this National Assembly. You have one as a conclusion, and the other as a possible conclusion, a conditional conclusion. And what Dr Horvat said does not answer the question why the decision that was drawn up at the meeting on 8 August and repeated twice at the meeting on 9 October was not put to the vote, has not been withdrawn, has not been amended, has not been amended and has not been voted on. See, this is a matter that is essential for the conduct of the procedure at this point of the agenda. The fact that someone does something about the process and the thing that is the point that is shaped as a conclusion does not vote on it means that he has usurped the decision and everything else connected with this item of the agenda. Mr President, I request an explanation. I request the suspension of the sitting and I also request a written explanation of why this "slamparia" has taken place in the first place. Something like this can't happen in the legislative process. We can't just sail somewhere and do something else. It's a matter of meeting in the National Assembly. If you file something, it's up to you to decide, if you read something, it's up to you. Now, I don't know how you're going to hold this meeting, but the standard of the National Assembly is that the conclusions that are under way are voted on. And in that case, that didn't happen. The explanation given by Dr. Horvath is not appropriate, is not sufficient, is not the right explanation. I want to know why this has actually happened, what is the reason why the formal decision that was given to the procedure has been circumvented without being, in any way, amended, withdrawn or unvoted. I want an answer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u11	The first basic thing is that you were at the MVK meeting, too. And the other thing about this is that we should get this explanation there and not at the session where we are today, for which we have the material prepared and all the material is up there. We added that extra material, so we have 200 pages of material, almost 100 pages of the judgment. The material is more than enough to allow us to make a qualified decision about it. In addition, one more matter needs to be added. Even if such a decision were taken on the MVK, the MVK cannot accept it because it does not decide on these matters. The IGC may, pursuant to Article 36 and paragraph 3, only inform the assembly of cases which result in the termination of the mandate of the Member. This is one of those provisions that actually allows today's meeting to take place, so I certainly do not agree that it was not what you consider to be an appropriate explanation, I think it was more than an appropriate explanation. At the same time, if you are not satisfied with this explanation, I am sending you to the Rules of Procedure Commission to find out what you think you should have found, and I think this is the only way. If you have another procedural question, I hope it will be on another subject and not the same, because I will not allow another procedural question for the same topic. Procedurally. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have a number of procedural questions. But then the question was why such a decision was made if the Mandate-Electorial Commission could not decide on this, designed to decide on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. That's what happened to eight. 8. 2014 and then on 9 October 2014, this was read on two explicit questions. Why was this given to the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a decision if it is not in a position to decide? If that is true of what you have said, then the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission should find that this proposal for a decision is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that the Mandate-Electorial Commission for such a procedure is not competent for such decision-making and should recast the relevant forecasting text. But that didn't happen. Mr President, I think that, on such an important issue as the termination of a Member's term of office, all procedural matters must be perfectly clear, clarified and must not be over the process, over the procedure in the National Assembly. I think that you, as President, are obliged to resolve all of these dilemmas related to this issue before you continue to do so. You've been warned, and I think you have a prior duty to resolve these things. If you continue to meet in such a way that the procedural reasons do not matter, then listen, then it is almost a shame that we have a meeting. It is possible to decide that there is under the lip or in Ferrent's garden, and you will decide who among us is still a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u13	Please use appropriate terms.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u14	Ferent's garden isn't inappropriate or under the lip.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u15	We're in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u16	Of course, I know that. Mr President, I request that, before you proceed with the meeting, you clarify all the procedural reasons that have led to this decision not being voted on or if this decision is wrong for the Mandate-Electorial Commission, then I also ask how it has been there, if the Commissioner-elect is the right-holder. That's someone who has a PhD in law. I believe that these business matters are not so difficult and should be cleared up in accordance with this warning I have given. I suggest that you ensure that this dilemma is cleared up, but I have some others to warn me from below.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u17	Now I'm going to take this right, and I'm going to say that we're not going to clean up these dilemmas like you wanted to clean them up. You had the opportunity to put this matter on the Mandate-Volution Commission itself. You have had the opportunity to bring this matter before the Rules of Procedure Commission, and I still urge you to do so. The fact is that this meeting is convened on the basis of a report from the Commission approved by the College of the National Assembly. The procedure on the Commission itself is not the subject of consideration of this meeting, but the result of this procedure is what we will discuss. In this debate, given that I have also allowed the amendment you have proposed, I do not see in essence any restriction that we could not make all of this clear why you think it is controversial. Otherwise, I thank you for your warning and, in fact, I do not intend to continue this subject because I intend to continue the meeting. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u18	Of course, Mr President, I will follow your instructions, although what you have done is not in accordance with the rules of procedure. And I think the National Assembly has to be very careful that it leads the process properly. Actually, that's the key. The content can also be regulated with the Constitutional Court. But procedural correctness is what is specifically imposed on the President of the National Assembly, and you obviously do not care too much. But I'm gonna point out one more thing. On 9 October 2014, Mr Hanžek proposed the following decision: In the case of Mr Ivan Janez Janša, the condition set out in the third indent of the first paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members is fulfilled. The mandate-election committee proposes to the National Assembly to find out that Janša’s term of office is hereby terminated. This Decision has not been adopted. There was a Member for him and 17 for him. Given that, in fact, this only decent decision, which was in accordance with the third indent of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure, made it possible to draw up a point in the manner you imagined, since the Mandate-voluntary Commission informs the National Assembly only of cases which result in the termination of the mandate, and this was the decision which was rejected, I note that all further work of the Mandate- voluntary Commission is in fact irrelevant and irrelevant, and also what you have included in the meeting of the National Assembly is also irrelevant, because the decision of the Mandate- voluntary Commission is not drafted in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I warned you about at the College, and you've been overhearing. That's what I'm reminding you of today. The national assembly of the item you have on the agenda cannot at all address it, Mr President. That's impossible. Since it is not designed in accordance with the third indent of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure. Only if the Mandate-Election Commission finds out the existence of reasons and decides on this, finds that the mandate is terminated, may such a proposal for a decision be proposed to the National Assembly. If you do not believe this, read the proposal for a decision that was related to the case of the Member of the Happy Friend. There the Mandate-Election Commission decided on this case and processed this proposal for a decision also at the National Assembly. The National Assembly is, however, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] But what we have on our agenda today is not designed that way. This agenda item should in fact not be at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Please. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u19	Now I think you're slowly abusing procedural issues. By the way, you're demanding a withdrawal from the point we've already passed. And you're using procedural questions for what we've been through to get this thing out of hand. I consider that an abuse of the rules of procedure, that's the first word. The second point is that you have already told all these arguments at the College of the President of the National Assembly and have been rejected there and we have convened this extraordinary meeting, the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. However, as regards the procedure itself and what was proposed by Hanžek, which was rejected at the MVK, this was essentially the same as the second decision of the MVK, which was then adopted. In this case, even if there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, there is no such violation as would also constitute a violation of the Constitution. I therefore believe that, in view of the whole case, the Constitutional Court will not annul the decision of the National Assembly if, in fact, it continues on this basis. At the same time, I would like to point out that what happened at the MVK is simply the basis that today – and this is the report that we are deciding today, but it is not possible for the MVK to claim either that certain facts exist or that it is not possible to assert or establish terminations or any other procedural matters concerning a Member or a specific mandate. Why not? Because it's up to the entire National Assembly to decide. And that's what we're doing today. Therefore, I do not intend to continue to argue on these matters with you and to repeat one-hour discussions with the College of the President of the National Assembly, which was also a dialogue. I ask for a different procedural question, if not to the end, and that's all. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I will tell you in advance that I have three sets of procedural questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u21	Then I ask you to list all three first.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u22	I'll go in line. You can't ask me to do that. As for your finding that I've already pointed out this problem somewhere else, that's part of the problem. I have warned everywhere where I participated in the meeting of the working body, both on the Mandate-Volution Commission and on the College of the President of the National Assembly. It's my duty. However, Mr President, this does not interfere with me and does not prevent me from drawing attention to this at the meeting of the National Assembly. There are no limits to what I'm warning you. Preventing this warning from saying anything is not part of the business arrangement. This could be the exercise of the presidency, but it is not regulated in this way. What will happen, Mr President, in the Constitutional Court we leave this to the Constitutional Court. What you've been saying has no basis, because it's not you or me or anyone here in the capacity of a constitutional judge and one who's going to decide on this case. However, I have warned you that the only procedurally correct decision to take place at this meeting of the National Assembly would be the adoption of Mr Hanžk's proposal. The only one. As well as what you say to a substantively similar decision, the Commission did not find a violation, because it also wrote in its proposal that Member Janez Janša should not terminate her term of office. It is said that the basic condition for the Mandate-Electorial Commission to inform the National Assembly of the cases which result in the termination of the mandate of the Member is not fulfilled. Now I do not know how many times I can point out how many times this must be explained to you, how many times it is necessary to explain this to the other Members of the National Assembly, but I point out that, in accordance with the rules of procedure before you, the decision which is the subject of this item on the agenda is not in accordance with the provision. I warn you that this meeting cannot be held, and that you, as chairman, should probably have found out before you have called for a meeting, or now that you have been warned about it. I also actually reminded you of this at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. If others are concerned about whether matters are taking place in the National Assembly at such a sensitive point as the termination of the mandate, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the normative acts and other acts, something in that country is seriously wrong. Procedurally, matters must be properly completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u23	These matters in the National Assembly, i.e. the meetings, shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The fact is that the mandate-holder committee shall draw up a decision for consideration at the plenary session. However, it does not decide on anything because I have already quoted the third indent of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition to the Rules of Procedure, it is also necessary to take into account the legal and constitutional provisions in this regard. But as for the existence of an objective fact, and I have it here before me, this is a judgment that is legally binding. And that's that objective fact that's behind the whole decision-making. Of course, it is one of the issues that arose and is different from what this national assembly had established, that this judgment was not properly established, or that the National Assembly was not properly informed of that judgment. And that is one important difference between the first time anything has been decided and the second time it is decided in plenary. I think that this observation of yours is groundless, and that you can tell the next one, you said you had three. The other one.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. With regard to the constitutional and legal provisions, the Legislative and Legal Service has written two opinions to you. Neither in the first, nor in the second, opinion shall there be any constitutional or legal provisions for the procedure to be followed in the National Assembly against Ambassador Janez Janša. If that were the case, then Dr. Horvat and the Coalition majority of the Commission would not have ordered another opinion. If that were the case, Mr President, what you said would not have to order this second opinion. That's probably what we both agree on. However, since the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has found that there is no constitutional and legal reason, as well as the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights speak of this: "You ordered what you ordered." And I think it is inappropriate for the President of the National Assembly to argue with the existence of constitutional and legal reasons if the service under your auspices finds a completely contrary position, and in writing. What you have just said goes too far, Mr President. You have no argument for what you have said. 13 legal and legal officers are in favour of the opinions sent to the National Assembly on this case. And not a single word, even less, is a sentence to give you the basis for what you said in this case. Mr President, if you want anyone to believe that constitutional and legal provisions are behind this, please read one of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, then I will believe you. These are the documents we all received, we operate with them, we have held a meeting of the National Assembly, indeed that the coalition and the vast majority in this National Assembly were not satisfied with them, but are based on the Constitution and the laws. And no one denied them. What you have in your hands is something else. That cannot be the basis for what is here and you cannot conduct proceedings contrary to constitutional and legal arrangements in the National Assembly. I propose once again that the session, I don't know, be suspended and terminated, because there is no constitutional or other reason for what you are proposing, and also the decision has not been voted on, which would give the basis for [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u25	I now note that you are using procedural questions for a substantive debate. Yes, this is the use of procedural questions for a substantive explanation. This substantive explanation cannot be part of procedural questions, so I ask for your next procedural questions. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The procedure for settling or resolving an important issue such as the termination of a Member's term of office is essential. And the reasons and arguments for such a procedure being carried out are essential. You have not rejected my proposals with anything, so I will give you another chance, Mr President. I suggest that you read for Members who have not read this and, above all, for the Slovenian public, both opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service before Dr Horvat begins to present at all what has been adopted by the Mandate-Election Commission. I think that because of this debate on these procedural obstacles that we are currently dealing with and you are constantly rejecting them that this is actually the only right thing to do. I suggest that you read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was linked to session 8. 8. 2014 as well as the additional opinion delivered to the Committee on Election and Mandate on 9 October 2014. By giving people real insight into whether or not the constitutional and legal reasons for the withdrawal of John Janš’s mandate are fulfilled. I hope that there will be no reservations from you as president or anyone else for this to be done to read both opinions related to this point in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. If you can't do it, Mr President, I can do it, I will sacrifice myself, but you can also ask the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, Mr Strlett, to do it. As usual, it reports at the meetings of the working bodies, it may also be possible to make a presentation of both views on this item of the agenda. If you do not ensure this, then this means that you are hiding for reasons and only follow the objective of executing an execution, namely in the absence of constitutional and legal documents or arguments, as set out in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Mr President, I propose that someone does this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u27	Now here's the deal. First of all, I'm going to give you a first warning, and that's because you're accusing me of executing something. I'm not an executioner, and I'm not gonna let myself say that. Peace in the hall, please. That's the first thing. As far as other things are concerned. These opinions have been public for two months. There is no reason to re-read them for a long and wide period of time, since once these opinions have been started for a long and wide period of time, the decision-making process in the National Assembly would extend to an enormous amount of time. This event, which is already in the National Assembly, is not with the greatest pleasure accepted in the Slovenian public. The extension of such a matter, and the debate on substantive issues, in fact, further discourages or undermines the reputation of this national assembly. For this reason, I will not order anyone to read these opinions because they have been present for so long in addition to all other opinions. However, what is essential in the opinion is written, and this is the only thing that you could really believe could mean that something constitutionally controversial, but it is not explicitly stated that it is constitutionally controversial. If it were written that the constitutional issue was at stake, the matter would be quite different. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I ask for so much patience that when I speak, I say this matter to the end, then report for the word procedurally or otherwise. So far, I've actually explained the matter. Even in response to this your procedurally. And that was your last procedural one, because you announced three procedural ones. No, Comrade Tank, you don't get the next one because you said three. [[advertising from the hall]] Please explain this matter to me on three, three sets of procedural questions. If there's nothing substantive, I'll let them go, or else we'll stop after the first one.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u28	Look, Mr President, first of all, I have a responsibility to respond to what you have said. One opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service has been true since August, since 8. 8 or some day before. The second was referred to the procedure of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission some day before the 9 October meeting. So the Slovenian public is not familiar with both opinions for two months, as you said. And there's something else. While the legislative and legal opinion is a document of the National Assembly, it is available on the website, but the Slovenian public, citizens accompanying this meeting, and you have stated that there are all the constitutional and legal reasons for the matter being processed to the end and that the term of office of Member Janez Janša is not valid. That is why I have proposed to you on the basis of your debate, your explanations, which do not stand to be read both opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, because they explicitly contain something entirely different. And there's one more thing. In its opinion, the legislative and legal service never writes that something is constitutionally disputed because it does not have this mandate. However, it always draws attention to the reasons for constitutional dispute. And so, of course, in this case. That's why he can write. And, Mr President, I propose that, for the Slovenian public, for those thousands, tens of thousands of people accompanying this meeting of the National Assembly, you ensure that both opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service are read. And there are also reasons why this procedure, which you took in the National Assembly, is not possible and is not corrected. See, this is the minimum standard owed by the National Assembly as the only institution in this country that operates in public in Slovenia. It's a minimum standard. These two opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service completely detract from your findings, which you have made in response to my procedural proposal. I therefore suggest, once again, that what the Legislative and Legal Service has written, explain, present to the Slovenian public, either by reading it or by reading it or by presenting it to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. That's what I demand, Mr. President. This proposal for an opinion to be presented by the Legislative and Legal Service at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u29	I can and I refuse it. We continue with the additional explanation. I give the floor to the representative of the panel president, Dr Mitji Horvat. Procedural. But after the next procedure, I hope we're really done with this because it's really about the abuse of this institute. You requested the same thing twice, and I didn't approve it twice. You can probably demand the same thing over and over again, but then I won't allow the procedure if it's the same again. Comrade Tank, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u30	Mr President, just a sentence on this subject. You are obliged to order an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service at the end of the agenda or to ensure that the Legislative and Legal Service comes to clarify its position. This has always been the case in the National Assembly. Never did the president of the National Assembly or the chairman usurp the right not to do so. Never. And I propose that, in accordance with this parliamentary practice, past experience and work under this Rules of Procedure, you also order this. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. I have also addressed to you a letter concerning Mr Masles' statement in one of the localities here in the centre of Ljubljana, and I expect your answer because the State Assembly is the one who appoints judges before the President of the National Assembly, the judges swear, and the National Assembly is the one who appoints such an important part of the Council of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court. This President of the Supreme Court has stated, and there is a notary record for this that Janez Janša should be "fucked". There's a notary record. We can deliver it to you. The President of the Supreme Court thus commented on the open trial and, worse still, after that comment, he was even appointed President of the Senate, who ruled on Janez Janša. Given that the National Assembly is most likely important in the process of appointing and forming a judiciary, both judges, the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice, it is most likely that from the chairman of the institution, this is an explanation from the President of the National Assembly in this particular case. You waved there with some judgment that was made in a court of law, which was incriminated because there were contentious acts both in the course of the prosecution process, because there was a conflict between the prosecutor and the defendant, and then further in the decision at the appeal level at the Supreme Court. I am interested in your position, and in particular that we get a presentation of the position of the Legal and Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u31	The position of the Legislative and Legal Service is not related to this decision, which we are deciding today or is not a position which is essentially addressed to what we are deciding today, so I will not order it to be read or done. At the same time, I find that you have two procedural applications. The second procedural request is entirely outside the subject matter of today's meeting. However, I will only say that, as a representative of the National Assembly, I cannot comment on anything in any particular case on the other branch of power, in particular what has already been done in the proceedings itself and at the same time has already been decided. That is why I do not intend to do so. Another procedural one. Please do not make it substantive, to refer exactly to this point that is at stake today. And this is the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u32	Mr. President! Both you and I, if you look at when this was said, when the President of the Supreme Court said it, you will find that this was before the ruling of the Supreme Court. So this was said at a time when the proceedings against John Janša in the Supreme Court were not closed. This is indisputable because it was pronounced in the time before John Janš went to prison. That's what this notary record says. I believe that the President of the National Assembly, as President of a democratic institution in such a case, in particular because there are legitimate reasons for this, cannot place his head in the sand and not make a statement as to whether, in the case of a statement by the President of the Supreme Court, it was a matter of getting involved in a judicial proceeding or not and of issuing an opinion on the judgment in the Janš case. Even the Senate president was in this case. I would also point out that this was in fact the reason for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of Masleš from the Senate, unfortunately also the general meeting of the judges did not say so. That says a lot about what our judiciary is like. And I'm only going to deny you with another statement. Yesterday your party president, the Prime Minister of the Government, stepped into an open trial against one of the journalists. He's declared what he's going to do. It's a reporter, Anusko Delic. Why can the President of the Government comment on an open trial in a court of law, but you can't finish the trial, which had this previously very harsh disqualification of Janez Janša, and then the same person who said it also made the decision about him. And I guess I don't know, rejected in a complaint. Mr President, the National Assembly is for things to be clarified, matters to be clarified, and for the authorities to be President of the National Assembly to take on its responsibility and to have its own position on a particular case. In my letter, I suggested that you actually answer whether Mr Maslesha is still independent in the case of Janez Janša, arouses the appearance of someone who is neutral in this process, or arouses the appearance of someone who is already so predetermined that he is already speaking through the inn. I suggest that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u33	It's a procedural abuse. In order for me to come to a substantive debate, the debate must begin because I have been announced in the debate. If you stop this procedural obstruction of the National Assembly, then we will be able to continue, and in fact we will come to a substantive debate at all. That's why I now decree that the one I gave him before gets the word. But look, before what you had, it wasn't even a procedural question. If you think the same way again, next time you don't get the word. Last time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All the questions so far have been procedural: on a proposal for a decision, a decision, a process, an opinion or a presentation of an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service. Not one question was substantive, but procedural. You rejected everything without stating one single provision of the Rules of Procedure why you did so. Now I'm only asking you one more question. The mandate-holder commission ordered some so-called expertise, an expert opinion. And now I ask you on what basis this professional opinion was commissioned or carried out. I have already addressed questions to the President of the Mandate-Election Commission in September, September 10th, if I am not mistaken, regarding the determination of the work of this expert committee. Then, on 3 October, I re-examined and asked four questions concerning the procurement of this expert opinion, on the basis of civil law or on the basis of which these persons were engaged, when the basis was concluded or given, what instructions were given to prepare this opinion and what payment these persons received. Unfortunately, I haven't received any answers in over a month. Now I wonder if these people who prepared this opinion were doing some work in black, doing a little work, doing some dirty work, doing some neighborly help or some other form for the National Assembly. It is not possible to obtain either the date on which the contract was issued or the procedure under the Public Procurement Act has been carried out for small amounts. It is not possible to obtain either how the task was defined and what the objectives of the task were to draw up this opinion, who was the supervisor and who controlled the preparation of this and so on and so on and so forth. In short, Mr President, the conditions for working in the National Assembly and the explanations we are setting out on this point are insufficient, are ignorant. They're ignorant. And I really want to know what sanctions you're going to impose on people if there's been a violation of the Public Procurement Act, the Law on the Prevention of Work on Black or Similar Matters. However, it is a matter of great legal experts who have participated in this business and probably on unfair grounds. I suggest you answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u35	Another procedural one, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u36	And an hour and six minutes, President, we're listening to this. And that went all the way across the line. If I had understood at first, but the fact is that it's more than clear that it's a game. The Group intended that today, given that it had declared 90 minutes of its time, maximum time and that all other parliamentary groups would be less, and found that there would be fewer discussions later on for the sharing of time, so it decided on a new way forward. It is interesting that she did not take advantage of the business option, this is to make a request to withdraw the item from the agenda, because then she could not do this other manoeuvre. Therefore, according to 282. The first paragraph of Article, the President, is more than clear that only you and no one else can decide on the Rules of Procedure and Procedure, so I now expect you, on behalf of the Group of Members, to cut off this abuse, which is more than clear, that we are only delaying, because it is actually a substantive debate that is legitimate, which they will spend in their 90 minutes when the time is right. And I ask that this end, because otherwise I understand this as a kind of kidnapping of this national assembly, and also unworthy that even what it requires of you is that it does not really respect the rules of procedure. Of course I'm talking about Mr. Tank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u37	I will now respond to both procedural and thus the end of the procedural process and we will continue the debate. First thing for the first part. This Commission acted on the basis of a decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission at its 1st urgent meeting on 8 July 2016. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You will receive all the other explanations in writing and are not the subject of what we are discussing here today. In fact, that part of my answer that I can give is done right now. And now I am really asking the President of the Election Commission to add, I will not allow any more procedural or procedural at this point, the next, after at least the first part of the debate, to make it clear what this point is actually about. And without an explanation from the proposer, and this is the Mandate-Electorial Commission, it is not possible. Please, the President of the Committee on Elections, to give its opinion. The text is given by the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission to explain, then you will be given the word that at least one point will be put forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On the basis of the third indent of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission shall be empowered to inform the National Assembly of the cases which result in the termination of the mandate of the Member. At the first meeting of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission 1. 8. 2014 raised the question of John's term of office (Ivan Janša), which was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of more than six months. The Law on Members in the third indent of Article 9, first paragraph, provides that a Member shall terminate his term of office if he is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of six months. In accordance with the second paragraph of the same Article, the term of office of the Member shall expire on the date on which the Council of State finds that that reason has arisen. On the basis of Article 9, paragraph 3, of the Law on Members, the term of office of a Member shall not, for the said reason, cease if the Assembly decides that it may act as a Member. The subject matter was initiated by the Mandate-Election Commission at its 1st emergency meeting. 8. 2014, before which the National Assembly obtained it on 5. 8. 2014 also judgments equipped with clauses of jurisdiction and enforceability. Following the debate, the Mandate-Election Commission decided to obtain its additional opinion on the open legislative issues raised in the debate, in view of the opinion already received by the Legal and Legislative Service. At the same meeting, the Mandate-Electorial Commission also decided to obtain the position of the Special Expert Commission on the termination of the Member's term of office on matters which, in light of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service after the debate, remained constitutionally controversial. The work of the Mandate-Election Commission at these urgent meetings was very varied, boisterous and partly exhausting. That is why, of course, we have also modified and have recently received proposals for conclusions on which we have voted. I had a substantive lack of debate on the issue itself. In most cases, we have been turning around as we did at the beginning of this meeting mainly on procedural issues, and with great sadness I must find out, even with a lot of unworthy behaviour during the meeting. Therefore, I sincerely apologize to all those who have been appointed and spoken ill of or ill of in this place. As well as to the general public, because I was unable to hold the meeting in a different way than we do today, we see that it is possible to use the meeting for other purposes. Thus, the answers to the questions raised by the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the opinions of the special section, remained as material for all Members who have been confronted with them and have so far had sufficient time to decide whether the proposals for decisions we have offered to the National Assembly for decision have remained with Members, and of course our notification has remained with Members. I believe that you will be able to make a qualified decision on the basis of extensive material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u39	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Jože Tanko. Please make it really procedural, and I'll decide that myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr President, you will certainly decide for yourself, just as you have every time you hold a meeting. Before I gave these procedural questions, you gave me a reminder. You didn't argue, except that I used one of the wrong words to warn me. However, a reminder may be given to a member or other participant at the meeting if he speaks if the chairman has not given him the floor. I didn't speak because the chairman didn't give me his word. Then the reminder is given, if the speaker is speaking, I did not do so, too, when speaking of a question which is not on the agenda, I only spoke of procedural issues relating to the agenda, or if in any other way it violates the rules of procedure at the meeting and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, in no other way have I violated the order of the sitting and not the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In all my experiences, believe me, none of what you have given me is inconsistent with any of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. And I suggest you withdraw your warning, cancel it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u41	You have the floor as a debater on behalf of the Group of Members. [[advertising from the hall]] I said you have the floor as a debater on behalf of the Group of Members. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm not withdrawing the warning because you could object to it as soon as you get it. Peace in the hall, please! Explanation of the position or presentation of the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! I see that participation in today's meeting is in fact almost the same as it was at that meeting when we confirmed the mandates of Members. There has not been such a high participation in any other meeting so far, indicating that it is an important and sensitive item in the agenda of today's session. Today, before a very sensitive decision taken at this plenary session, the National Assembly has been led by a coalition virtually without discussion and without a reasoned explanation. This point concerns the withdrawal or termination of the term of office of Mr Janez Janša. To win the coalition with Janez Janša, the coalition has already violated the Constitution, the Law on Members, the Law on Elections, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and some other act, and this will obviously be repeated today. There will be almost no debate by the coalition members, not all the meetings of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and of the National Assembly have already been cut short. More or less keep quiet, but there's some unfortunate performance going on, you have a lot of work to do with your PCs or plates, and you're just waiting to press the button. In this mandate, until now, only that key which is against Janez Janša, which is understandable, since Maslesa-Cerar's judicial-political relationship, also shared a presidential seat in the Council of Justice years ago in the 2009-2012 mandate, has clearly been assigned the task of a final judicial and political solution to Janez Janša's problem. That is what we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But before we go any further, a few words about what's the basis for what's going to happen today. This is the story of Patria, who will be politically disentangled today, and in a few days, a court decision on the appeal will probably be made public. Patria started in 2004 when the Slovenian government was led by Drnovšek and Rop. At that time, Rob's government sold the majority state share of the Viator&Vektor System Technology, owned by Robov and Zdenko Pavček, a client of Zdenko Pavček. A few months later, Pavček sold a minority share of the new company to Austria’s Steyer for more than he paid the country. The Robbery Government has signed a letter of intent for eight-wheelers of approximately €300 million using System Technology. Interestingly, no investigative body in this country has detected anything unusual, clientelistic or illegal in this political project of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In 2004, the elections were held. The Slovenian Democratic Party won. Janša has formed a government and this government has decided not to continue this project in accordance with the so-called ‘Rope’ letter of intent, but to carry out an international tender or tender. The implementation of the entire project was entrusted to the Home Ministry of Defence. In a narrower selection came two offers, Patria and Systemic Technology, which then had to prepare prototypes for different tests. The Ministry of Defence and the General Staff have taken the matter seriously. The so-called working groups were set up, with more than ten experts involved, probably more than one hundred experts. In the end, Patria was chosen as a better and cheaper bidder, as well as because the Systemic Technology did not have a prototype at the time, and the Ministry of Defence concluded a contract. The losers did not give up the invitation to tender. They carried out media pressures on the Government, the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff and the Professionals, and in the end the National Assembly also established a so-called Squill's investigative commission, which did not end the work. This week's Defence Minister and former Chief of General Gutman were charged for her work, but eventually she was forgiven. None of the tender's evaluators have been tipped off, even less punished. In August 2008, the Sunday Diary announced a big bang from Finland. This actually happened in September, as Finnish television Ile presented the current Prime Minister as a corrupt one, which made him very involved in the electoral campaign. It is not too important to point out that some well-known people from Slovenia actively participated in this decadent and false political engagement against Janša. State Prosecutor Zreb-Hrastrova prepared the indictment and filed it at the District Court in Ljubljana. It has decided on a reduced procedure, i.e. a simple process, which has already been brought before the District Court into a judicial epepoch with a volume of documentation likely exceeding any in the District Courts. It should be noted, however, that the accused was not charged with suspected corruption and bribery against any person who was directly involved in the operation with Patrio, not against the assessor, not Minister Erjavac, not against General Gutman, but against Janez Janša, whom Minister Erjavec publicly stated that he and Patrio had nothing. In the indictment, not one single single person was brought directly into the indictment, nor was he later presented in both judgments. All the elephants on the charge that John Janša received an unknown payment promise in an unknown place, which they later added — in an unknown communication way. In this way, the accused cannot defend himself, nor can anyone be convicted anywhere. Nowhere but in Slovenia. Many legal experts have said that the charge and the judgment against Janša are legally incorrect. Let me give you some. Dr. Alexander Cheferin: "As far as I am aware of the documents of the statement, there are no indications against the former Prime Minister, let alone evidence of a conviction." And so on: "I can say that we have an interesting situation. One, the Finnish court ruled that the buyer did not give the bribe to the defendant, while the other court, the Slovenian court, ruled that the defendant had accepted a bribe which, according to the judgment of the first court, had not been accepted." Dr. Janez Kranjc, also professor at the Faculty of Law, professor of Roman law: "Sad judgment in the Patria case despite the length and accuracy of the case fails to convince the fundamental point. The possibility of the act being committed does not substantiate it with clear evidence." And also: "It seems that the presumption of innocence has prevailed over the desire to prove that the judiciary hopes to condemn a well-known policy. What should be self-evident that the judge is brave has become a prestigious issue, and some judges cannot distance themselves from their political beliefs in their work." So is a professor of Roman law at Law School. I refer to several other statements made by the former judge of the Constitutional Court of Matevž Krivica. He said: "Even because I am a sharp critic of John Janša, I have decided to publish my sincere and professional criticism of this judgment. The Court has not presented any evidence." Come in. "There is no evidence against Janša. The Supreme Court should immediately maintain the implementation of Janša's judgment in a highly controversial professional manner." Next. "And another thing, this rule of doubt applies even when there is some evidence for the defendant, but not enough to rule out any reasonable doubt. And here it seems that at least there's no evidence against Janša." Come in. "I remain Janša's political opponent. Despite my external appearance, however, I support the separate opinions of the three Constitutional Judges, in particular the Zobac, in this specific issue." And what the Constitutional Judge Zobez wrote: "Indic judgment in a criminal case must not be admissible at all. The principle of legality, which is the first of the constitutional principles of criminal law, requires that the indictment must already contain a distinct and specific statement to the accused. The concreteisation of the act is decisive and irreparably flawed in this case. There is a lack of specificisation of the violent sign of the criminalization for which the complainant has been convicted. This is the acceptance of the promise of a prize. No one can be convicted of an abstract act. It can only be for real. This means that the trial should not come at all, nor should the court take on the role of the prosecution." Similarly, the Constitutional Judge Dr. Petrič and Mag. Deisinger in his separate opinions. Dr. Abelj wrote that the prosecutor in the indictment did not even describe what Janša was supposed to do. Dr. Bele writes that the court was overly entrenched in the idea that Jansho should be eliminated from public life. Also a dual doctor, or lecturer of constitutional law at Harvard, America, Dr. Klemen Jaklič notes: "The process against Janša is in the legal sense a scandal of the first category. There is no indication of how John Janša would accept the promise. The case against John Janša does not exist legally and never existed." And also: "The prosecution's proposal has drawn up and put a prosecutor into the procedure who knew that it was constitutionally in an unacceptable conflict of interest." It's the prosecutor of Zob-Hrasarova. He could also quote statements from former constitutional judges, Dr. Sturm, Dr. Tonet Jerovška, Dr. Chebul or other lawyers, Dr. Toplac, Dr. Zagorec, Dr. Terška, Dr. Mark Bosnjak, lawyers, such as Stupice and others. All of these are extremely receptive to Janša's case and, consequently, if I proceed, even until Janša's term of office has been revoked, because if we take these opinions of judges or legal experts into account, we should not object at all. Even the nicest of all who came forward was the former supreme judge, a participant in many partisan celebrations of Vasili Polič, who said that this was something unstable for one of the radio stations. There are no experts to establish judgment and proceedings against John Janša. No one was defending her, except for one judge, Vesna Bergant Rakočević, who congratulated her fellow judge for her courage, even though the proceedings were not legally completed. Such a unified response from the legal profession is rarely found. Like all the trials against John Jash, this one would end up like all the previous ones, without a conviction, because neither the prosecution nor the court were able to gather evidence. Of course, if it were not for the decision that Janez Janša should be "fucked" if I took the notary record of Marvin's spouses on the statement made by Branko Masleša, President of the Supreme Court at the Ambient. "Fuck" court and "fuck" political. That's how we can understand it. Regrettably, this notary record and this statement by the President of the Supreme Court were not responded to by any chairman of the institution of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with the judiciary: neither by the President of the Republic, nor by the President of the National Assembly, nor by the President of the Government, nor by the Minister of Justice, nor by the Ombudsman, nor by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, nor by the President of the Council of Justice. It's like this is an O.K. statement and it's none of anybody's business. The statement by the President of the Supreme Court of Masleš was made for an open trial, in which Maslesha was also appointed the Senate President, who decides on Janez Janša, namely the one to be "fucked". Judges appointed as judges in the National Assembly, this is what happens in this beautiful atmosphere of the courtyard of the great hall, and they swear there. But the oath reads, "I swear that I will act in accordance with the Constitution and the laws and judge by my conscience and impartially." Now we can ask ourselves what is going to happen or how it is possible to seal it in another environment, somewhere on the Chufareva, the same person, judge, supreme judge Branko Maslesha does not understand it as it is written in the oath he reads, but so that the ultimate goal is to destroy someone on the Indian court. Clearly, this is also where the transition between the constitutional objectives, understanding and the actual functioning of the official failed. This unconstitutional fatwa of Maslesche, we know what it means, but it wasn't enough to expel him from the Senate. To come to the Senate that decides about Janez Janša, you must be against Janez Janša. Justice and objectivity are not desirable, but you must be against it at first sight. It is interesting, however, that the second part of the legal profession, the one that follows this objective, which was made by the President of the High Court of Masles, namely the destruction of Janša, appears with comments only after or after the jurisdiction of the judgment. The latter groups have no interest in any fact or circumstance before the jurisdiction, no lack of evidence, no injustice, no breach of procedures, no violation of human rights of the accused – nothing. For them, it is only and only legal authority, because only legal power enables them to achieve a political goal: the elimination of Janez Janša from political space. Well, not just that. This also corrupts the self - conquest and political companions or thinkers of John Janša. As Kučan said 20 years ago at Borut Pahor's parliamentary evening in Novi Gorica, "first the discreditation, then the liquidation, if necessary, also physical". And on this move, you are, in fact, a respected colleague, who will decide on the mandate of Janez Janša. You are just before the political liquidation of Janez Janša, and the trial has already taken place temporarily. The predominant part of this minority part of the legal profession is those who have roots anchored deep in the previous regime, which have never taken independence as their own, are the jugonostalgics. Those who build on totalitarian criminal law are among other careerists, and of course those who build their further political or professional path on Janša’s elimination. Also, Dr. Cerar, Dr. Horvat, Dr. Petrovec, here in the National Assembly, the coalition's lawyers refer only to jurisdiction, for this gives you the basis for the political elimination of Janez Janša, which he warned Dr. Bela, as well as other legal experts, months ago. But the ambition in the National Assembly is not a suitable place to carry out such executions, any but at least one based on violations of the prescribed legal procedures, in violation of the Constitution, laws and human rights. The National Assembly is an ambience in which they are created and where laws and laws change, and it is an ambience in which the Constitution, laws and other applicable rules should be systematically followed. In particular, if we are warned in advance by the legal opinions of the Legal and Legal Service that what is intended to be done is not in accordance with the constitutional order of the State and the practice and the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the Convention on Human Rights. There must be clear legal basis for the decision of the National Assembly and procedures must also be fully carried out on legal grounds, i.e. procedurally correctly. I'm afraid that's not the case many times. At the time of Alenka Bratušek's term of office, the political network has consciously taken decisions on several occasions that were totally contrary to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and which have caused deliberate harm to the State, individuals and groups. Four such decisions were also suspended by the Constitutional Court, i.e. annulled, annulled or rejected. The current political majority of Mir Cerar, who is still well placed in the mandate, comes with the first project, with the withdrawal or termination of Janez Janša's mandate, which is only the continuation of this revenge policy to ad persons. Janez Janša was not to participate in the Commission for Security Intelligence. The commission was set up twice at a meeting of the National Assembly. Without any constitutional or legal basis for this, you asked the coalition not to propose Janez Janša to this commission. The first major project following the establishment of the government is, therefore, today's meeting, where the political definition of one key policy over the last 25 years – Janez Janša – will take place without having to make one credible constitutional or legal argument. The law enforcement department of this house, the National Assembly, didn't find it. From two opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, both demanded a coalition majority gathered around Mir Cerar's party, it is clear that there is no constitutional or legal basis for what we will witness today. There are no grounds for carrying out the termination procedure for Janez Janša with any single dictatorship in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Even more. In its opinion, the legal and legal service even explicitly writes this, referring to domestic constitutional and European human rights practice, and also mentions cases in which it argues and proves that this is not possible. It's not possible because passive electoral rights are indivisible. The right to run, to be elected and to carry out a mandate is indivisible. And you can probably see why the President of the National Assembly did not allow the legislative and legal opinions of our service to be presented here before this point was discussed. This is how the Law-Legal Service wrote down, and so many constitutional and other lawyers claim to have made oral or even written statements and opinions on this court-political farce, which was artificially launched against a person who was not directly involved in the implementation of the Patria project, not directly, as he said before, even the former Minister of Defence Erjavec. Erjavec is also a minister in this government, Cerara's government, so that the examination of his claims is probably not problematic and the force is simple. It is interesting that no legal expert has initiated any procedure on the State Election Commission, not in the validation phase of the nominations, but in the stage of publication of the results. Not Dr. Cerar, not Dr. Horvat, not the candidates, not the parties, not the voters. No one at all. It was only after the elections that this second group of lawyers, who felt that the judiciary was only beginning with a judicial verdict or conviction, began to look for ways to get rid of Janša. Since the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service did not give precisely the political majority in the National Assembly, it is said that this extended coalition, no possibility to build on it or achieve the termination of the term of office of Ambassador Janez Janša, has been used in the coalition by the mercenaries you named the Group of Independent Legal Experts. It's Dr. Ribičič, Dr. Grad, Dr. Pirnat, and former Minister Zalar and Dean Bauk. The President of the National Assembly, Brglez, the President of the Committee on Elections, Horvat, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Urša Zora Tavčar, was unable to communicate within more than one month on what basis these legal experts carried out and carried out their work, either with a contract or under the Law on Public Procurement for Small Value. No one shall say whether the work started before the formalities relating to the contract were regulated. There is no known price, there is no known definition of the task, we do not know the instructions for drawing up an opinion, it is not known whether it was work on black, small work, inter-neighbourly assistance, poker work, volunteer work and so on. Only Dr. Horvat said three weeks ago at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that he was happy to report that the opinion of the group was likely to be united, without separate opinions. And this opinion, without separate opinions, we actually got it days ago. But none of the legal experts who were in the group came to the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission to even present it, let alone to defend it there, which is a disgrace to the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and also to those mercenaries who have done this business. However, they were not missing for no reason at the meeting of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, because in order to present this crimson, this structure, we need to have something more. At least you have to have a face to tell the MPs that one face. But experts may have questioned their own product, based on what the legal profession says is not possible, on the fragmentation of passive electoral rights. You can run, you can be elected, only you can't carry out the parliamentary mandate, which is quite contrary to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in all cases of previous judgments relating to similar situations. Unfortunately, the enlarged coalition adopted this aboriginal opinion completely, and both opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service were cut short. At the same time, the statements made by some of the mercenaries included in this so-called independent expert group are interesting. On 8 August this year, Dr. Cyril Ribičič, president of the successor to the Union of Communists and the predecessor of the Social Democrats, stated to the officer of the evening that it was a specific Member – it was Janez Janša – he did not want to be defined because it was not objective. How, I ask you now, could he have even agreed to participate in this expert group if he already knew on 8 August that he was unobjective? Just because he agreed to participate in the group, did he suddenly become objective? An important question. Only the old communists can perform such a balance. On 25 August, Dr Pirnat argued that we should wait for the Supreme Court's decision; otherwise, it should be understood that the Law on Members applies also to cases before the approval of the mandate, which means the withdrawal of the mandate; I say so in full. But the court's decision at Dr. Pirnat was suddenly no longer important. All of a sudden, the moment he came to the expert group, the Supreme Court's decision was no longer important. Politician Aleš Zalar, former Minister of Liberal Democracy, political opponent of Janez Janša, is also an example of objectivity and political impartiality. Dr. Castle was responsible for the immediate removal of Janez Janša's mandate, which means that you're independent, by definition, if you're against Janša. Dino Bauk, former chief of staff of the cabinet of the late Liberal Democracy Dr. Slavko Gabra, is also an informal writer in Mladina, and does not belong to the circle of fans of Janez Janša. In short, the chosen ones could not prepare anything other than a single opinion that you grabbed for this structure on the Mandate-Electorial Commission and to process the termination of Janša's mandate. It is only a pity that Milan Kučan refused to participate in this unit. After all, we may be surprised by Dr Terška's statement, which in a short sentence on the Patria matter, said: "What is happening is no longer true, but injustice and politics. The law here has been completely voided." If the Mandate-Election Commission really wanted to obtain quality and differing opinions, the Coalition would call for a public presentation of opinions where any legal experts, as well as other interested parties, could comment on the matter in question on their views, their opinions. This is a common practice in the National Assembly, that the working body wants to obtain as many different opinions as possible before the decision. However, the coalition prevented this, in our opinion, for only one reason – because it was her view that John Janša's mandate should be withdrawn in the way you suggested that her legal experts be in a distinct minority. Perhaps even Ribičič and these other legal experts would not be able to present their opinions in this public opinion. There's so few of them. The current Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, drew attention to the cumbersome legislation that is the product of the ten- and multi-year rule of Liberal Democracy and also of the left. However, it is more than odd that Dr Cerar, who has been an external member of the National Council for Legal Affairs for many years, received the last remit this year when the President of the Government, did not notice until then that our legislation and constitutional arrangements in the field of elections were flawed. And he didn't propose any solutions. For more than ten years, he had been an external expert in the National Council for Legal Affairs, but he did not notice this and he did not propose any solutions — all the way to the case of John Janša. Now it is probably a problem because there have been quite a number of comments, particularly comments based on supposed high ethics and not on the legal basis he overlooked. None of his statements were based on the provisions of the Constitution or the laws in question. Dear colleagues! By this method, when the power of arguments is not important, but the argument of power will also be decided by the majority in the National Assembly. However, before I conclude, I would like to read to you the legal opinion of Dr. Yuri Toplak, which reads as follows: "When such situations occur before the approval of the mandate, the Constitution is governed by Articles 43 and 82 in three provisions. First time. The Constitution determines who has the right to be loved. This right is conferred under Article 43 of the Constitution on every citizen who has reached the age of 18. Another time. In Article 82 of the Constitution, the legislator is given the opportunity to determine who is not to be elected as a Member. And the third time. Article 82 of the Constitution also provides for the procedure for the confirmation of the terms of office of the Member States, which provides for the approval of the Council of State and for an appeal to the Constitutional Court against its decision. If a person has the right to be loved and there is no circumstance in which he should not have been elected, and if his mandate has been confirmed, the only remedy under the Constitution is that, in view of the circumstances which were present during the period prior to the approval of the mandate, he challenges the mandate, a complaint against the decisions of the National Assembly to confirm the mandates of the Constitutional Court. The Constitution does not provide for any other legal remedy against the mandate. When circumstances change after the mandate has been approved, however, the law governs the situation. For some of these situations, when circumstances change after the mandate has been approved, the law provides for its withdrawal. Such circumstances, as listed in Article 9 of the Law on Members, are death, loss of electoral rights, continuation of incompatible activities for three months. In all the circumstances mentioned above, it is clear that there are situations which can only take place after the election or after the approval of the mandate, as if they had taken place earlier, a person could not even run or his mandate could not be confirmed. For example, if a person had died before the mandate was approved, the mandate would not have been confirmed." This is summarized in the opinion of Dr. Yuri Toplak, professor of constitutional law at the Faculty of Maribor. Let me recall, however, that the terms of office of all Members, including the mandate of Janez Janša at the Mandate-Election Commission, were already unanimously confirmed on 1 August both at the Mandate-Election Commission and at the general meeting of the National Assembly. The National Assembly voted in favour of the approval of the mandates of 88 Members, but only two were absent. Dr Cerar, Dr. Horvat, Dr. Brglez and everyone else who attended the meeting at the time also voted in favour of the mandate. Today’s elimination of Janša introduces dangerous practice, dangerous political practice. On the basis of the hair drawn from the legal opinion of independent experts, the Coalition will be able to call upon the responsibility of any member of the opposition who will be loud or will not like it and terminate its mandate. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to such a way of working based on natural law, as understood and interpreted by the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, strongly opposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u43	Two things. Comrade Duck, please procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, procedurally. First of all, I must admit that I highly appreciate Mr Tank as an experienced politician and, of course, I am learning from him how good I am, I do not know yet, although of course I do not agree with the whole range of his implementations. At the first extraordinary session, when we confirmed our mandates, we said that we would raise the level of discourse in this house, because then the multiplications, the multipliers of our rudeness, are also in some other premises. So we said, let's say we don't use the word "egg" in metaphors, I'm sorry. Mr Tanko has used the word "fucked" several times now, when it was not clear, but paraphrasing, but quoting or citing, which is not surprising to me as a professor, because there were quite a few people in the previous references who had problems with it. It offends a religious community when, in the context of the market, some concept of the classical culture of Islam grieves, on the one hand exalts, on the other hand offends a certain part of constitutional lawyers, by the fact that the mercenaries who wrote are scribbled and so on. And he insults all of us, Mr. Tanko. I'm not on any movement of physical elimination. After all, I take the bugs home and throw them out the window to be eaten by the birds. But I must admit, I also receive e-mails and classic mail, where your client's sympathizers promise me physical elimination. I ask the President to sanction such practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u45	I usually never interfere with this sort of thing, at least not when it comes to general views, although this time I wanted to expose the word "payers" as something that's somehow unacceptable. And on behalf of the National Assembly, I would apologize to those who were assigned to them for knowing that Comrade Tanko would not. Now, Mr Franz Jurša, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, whether we discuss a Member, the United Left, the Social Democrats, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners, the parties of Mir Cerar, the Slovenian Democratic Party or New Slovenia, our position will be the same. We are not thinking about the name and surname, we are thinking about what we are discussing here today. You know, my wish and our great wish would be that in this Chamber the Vice-President, please allow me to read the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners so that my colleagues on the right do not disturb me. [[…]] I'll start again. It would be my great wish today to discuss in this Chamber how we will create conditions for economic growth, to reduce the number of unemployed, especially young people, the decent survival of the third life period, in order to provide pensioners with decent pensions for the normal survival of their age and other important topics for our Slovenia. And we're dealing with something completely different. This is something that our citizens and citizens do not agree with. Believe me, this is a public opinion. To begin with, a simple sentence contained in the Law on Members should be quoted as saying: "The Member shall cease his term of office if, by a judicial judgment, he is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of more than 6 months' imprisonment." And this sentence has divided both citizens and citizens and the professional public, and in general the entire policy in our country. Each of us reads the same sentence. Yes, we read it exactly the same, when it is necessary to use it on a specific Member's case and it is interpreted in its own way. Well, not exactly my own. It's two conflicting explanations. One of the political members of the party whose speaker spoke before me have their own view. Others who belong to other political currents have their own view again. We all agree with the following facts in the Chamber: that in this case it is a matter of deciding on a Member's term of office, that the latter has been sentenced by a judgment of the Court, and that this is a sentence longer than six months in prison. Me and us, our Group of Members, are not going to rule in court here on this site or in the benches. The Court is an independent branch of the Authority. The conclusion is simple. Every word of the sentence that I quoted at the outset can be formulated as complete, given that it lists the facts to which, I stress, no one objects. We are in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and will always advocate absolute respect for the rule of law and human rights of these freedoms, of course. Indeed, our Law-Legal Service, in its opinion, stated that the removal of the Member's term of office could be constitutionally disputed. Emphasis is on the word "may". And because, in this view, the matter has remained misplaced, we have asked constitutional experts for an additional opinion, which we are all aware of. Of course, we have our views on who these experts were again. On the basis of all the material we have at our disposal, including the material covering 142 pages, and we have received yesterday's Members and Members of the Democratic Party of the Retired People's Party from the SDS Group. The time element in which the Court’s judgment became final is not relevant in its decision on the question of the Member State’s mandate. It is crucial that a Member be charged with a judicial judgment and be sentenced to imprisonment for more than six months. Therefore, given the consequences of our decision, we will vote unitedly in our parliamentary group against the proposed decision that the person with such a penalty should continue to carry out the parliamentary function without delay. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that today's decision, the story will not end, as this issue will soon be on the table of Constitutional Judges. And it is right that all of these shared legal opinions should give us an official definition of the constitutional interpreter as soon as possible. However, in this place, I owe it to all citizens and citizens on behalf of the party Desus and her parliamentary group to point out that in this case it is indeed a matter of political hygiene, political culture, ethics and morality. It is sad that the level of ethics and morality is at such a low level that we are deciding on it today. Let us leave aside why our legislation allows the convicted to run. In the final stage, one of the writers of the Constitution and the law then even thought that such a situation would ever occur. I believe and probably most of you believe no one. In short, the party Desus and all members of our party's parliamentary group have high ethical standards, especially for those entrusted with the most visible and most responsible national functions. This is demonstrated by the resignation of our party President, Karl Viktor Erjavac, from the post of Minister for Environment and Space. Let me remind you, our President has stepped down on the appeal of the Court of Auditors and on an illegal basis for irregularities and not corruption. This irregularity was based primarily on the work of his predecessor. Members and Members of Desus are aware that the criteria of political hygiene, political culture, ethics and morals do not allow us to make a different decision than to vote against the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u47	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Matjaž Han, for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the introduction, I would like to point out that I will not, as some, go into the analysis and reasons of the situation in which we have all come together, so I will not give any valuable judgment on the reasons. We've heard a lot of this, and we're going to hear a lot more. In my performance, I will therefore try to limit myself to the specific issue ahead of us, which I am aware is a very important political issue, but I will not, and I do not want to, define myself on the basis of my political conviction and even less at the personal level of ad persons. I think it would be right, respectable if everyone in this Chamber, which we are discussing today, tried to do the same, because this would make it easier to maintain a decent level of law and if you wanted political debates. In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not join those who defend the position, but either to the politicians, lawyers or any public, so that the person who ends the prison sentence can, at the same time, fully act as a Member. We believe exactly the opposite, and we are convinced that this is also the basic purpose of the legislator's regulation long ago, which in the Law on Members provided for a solution to terminate the term of office if he is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for a period of more than 6 months. Why do we think that? Not only because it is a matter of defending the position that those who are going through a prison sentence may at the same time act as a Member for an extremely ethically unacceptable position. I wonder what kind of message we give to people if we allow or even defend such a situation. But I also want to say that in this case there is a marked inequality and, if you want, there is a double inequality. I'll tell you. For the first time, this inequality shows that a Member who is going through a prison sentence is in a very unequal position as a Member who does not cease imprisonment. Unfortunately, both represent the people and represent a public interest, which, of course, is crucial for a Member or a Member. However, a Member who is going through a prison sentence cannot perform a full-blown function, as it of course foresees, and also requires the Law on Members. He can't do that, and we can't keep our eyes closed, respectable. Secondly, this marked inequality is also reflected in the fact that a Member who is going through a prison sentence ceases to do so, as he is still carrying out certain duties of a Member compared to another person who has been sentenced to a prison sentence for the same type of crime and who has not been elected and elected in the elections. So, my dears, this inequality is also reflected in the way or regime of the prison sentence, which can't be accepted, and we can't keep our eyes closed. On the basis stated in the Group of Social Democrats, we assess that the current legal regime requires us to resolve this situation in a way that will dissociate the suspension of the prison sentence and the exercise of the parliamentary function. We believe that not only ethics, but also the legal regime of the National Assembly requires it to find that a Member ceases his term of office by law for the remainder of the term of imprisonment of more than 6 months. However, in my view, Members and Members also have a duty to resolve this issue with the necessary amendments to the various laws in a way that in future such or similar cases there will be no longer such meetings in the country, whether at national level or if you wish, in the light of local elections also at local level, and it is not important from which political parties comes such or another candidate or Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u49	The text is by the United Left Group, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u50	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, dear comrades and dear comrades! Members of the United Left said at the first meeting of the National Assembly that the first step towards resolving the crisis in which Slovenia and it came to a large part of the world is a return to confidence. First, it is necessary to restore confidence in a policy that decides on people's everyday lives. Most of us, the elected representatives of the people, promised, at a pre-election time, a change in our actions, in particular a determined fight against corruption, nepotism, the rule of law and a just state. And this is not for the rule of law, where we will use various legal manoeuvres to defend conscious or accidental loopholes in laws that allow them to be played. The majority of the disaster that Slovenia is in is precisely due to the inadequacy of legislation that has allowed businesses to be chained and destroyed, people being robbed and wealth being built in tax havens, the immeasurable wealth of some and a kind before charities of the majority. In order to restore the reputation of politicians, we must begin with ourselves and restore to the National Assembly the reputation and trust that he had long since, unfortunately, lost. Since we need to show people, above all, that there is no room for corruption in the highest legislative body, we have firmly held that there is no room in this assembly for a Member who is sentenced to unconditional punishment for more than 6 months. But it's not just a certain Member, it's for everyone, no matter how it's written. In the United Left, we are convinced that there is sufficient legal diction for this finding to end the term of office at the time of the expiry of the two terms of marriage, the first time that the Member has a mandate, i.e. that he has been elected and his mandate approved, and the second time that he has been sentenced to an unconditional term of imprisonment of more than 6 months. There's nothing more to this law. However, it does not explicitly stipulate that a second condition, i.e. a judicial judgment, should occur before the date of the term of office. For the United Left, the legislation is clear, although the legal profession is divided in the interpretation. It is therefore necessary to rely on other arguments that are not only legal in nature when deciding. First of all, we can ask ourselves what the legislator's aim was when he wrote that a Member cannot be someone who is legally sentenced to more than six months in prison. The only conclusion that follows is that he did not want in his own kind someone who was known for breaking the law. And if we follow the spirit and do not miss the letter of the law, we see no difference between the criminal act of someone who was convicted before or after the act of his post. And that is how the Members of the United Left will vote. The third paragraph of Article 2 of the Law on Members gives the Assembly the possibility that, despite the conditions set out in the third indent of Article 9, the Member may not take the mandate. However, Article 50 of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions states that a convicted person who misuses his profession, activity or duty by committing a crime cannot be assigned to such work in or outside the institution. And in that case, that's exactly what this is about. The Member's post allows for similar treatment and conviction of the President of the Government, Janez Janša. In the United Left, we believe that the corrupt act that condemned John Janša is of such a nature that the National Assembly must not allow itself to postpone and postpone a decision by asking whether he is allowed to carry out his mandate. However, our decision will certainly be a political decision. We are the highest political institution in the country and it is up to us to send a message to the citizens of Slovenia. This message will also be a model for themselves to follow in the future. This communication is not just a legal dimension that lawyers cannot agree on. The decision of Members must, however, be based on laws, but their decision also lays down other dimensions. First of all, it is ethical whether we are Members of the same citizens a little bit more alike and we can also afford to commit crimes. Will the judgments of the courts apply only to chicken thieves or will they apply equally to the highest policies? Are we legalising corruption by protecting an MP? And above all, how will we demonstrate our attitude towards the rule of law by today's decision? Do we respect the judicial branch of power and thereby respect its legal convictions? However, today we do not decide on legal bravaurs how to bypass the spirit of marriage, but on our integrity. But we're capable of saying no! corruption and thus at least a little return to the lost reputation of the National Assembly and politics in general, or we will hide in the holes in the laws. For us Members of the United Left, there is no doubt. The National Assembly must make a self-evident decision, which we proposed more than two months ago. The condition set out in the Law on Members has been fulfilled, as Janez Janša has been sentenced to more than six months of unconditional punishment and therefore his term of office is terminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u51	Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratusek, Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u52	Nicely greeted! You all know that the opinion of the Alliance was more than clear from the outset at the constitutional meeting of the National Assembly, because we demanded and expected to solve this issue in fact at the Mandate-Electorial Commission. And in fact, this dilemma, which has been present all the time, yes or no, whether or not to grant the mandate of John Janša, who has been legally condemned, was more or less clear. The majority decision was that there was a need to open a debate on this issue, to in-depth share opinions on the various legal corners and finally to make a certain decision. A hand to the heart, in fact, was always supposed to happen in the Supreme Court. This decision, and more or less the situation and the loss of two months' time, has shown for more than two months that if we cut this agony down already on the day of the constitutional session, we would in fact be able to discuss some other important laws for the country today. But it's really a problem that it's right to shed light on it from all angles. We will never be united in this hall. The fact is, more or less, it has proved to be that each one is protecting his own, regardless of his or her ethical, moral position, which in fact should be held. And what is a kind of paradox that has taken place in this mandate is that voters have given a good part or the largest part of the parliamentary group or party to the mandates, and this is a large number of mandates, with one reason: new faces, upright, moral, ethical posture. On the other hand, we cannot deny that more than 6,000 votes were cast by the electorate to John Janša's term of office, even though they knew that it was a lawfully convicted candidate. However, the legislation that some today want to present from the left and right angle, if it is flawed, lax and needs to be corrected, is really just a matter of decision by this National Assembly. We have heard several times in the last two months that something is actually unconstitutional. This may be an opinion, but it is known who, when, and how he can decide what is constitutional and what is not constitutional. And if necessary, this question is likely to come to that decision sooner or later. It is also the only way to make clear once and for all what is possible and what is not possible in this country. The second is, of course, the political message given by the National Assembly or a new mandate in this composition, which has finally committed itself to working with some different standards, as expected by all the inhabitants of this country. Ten, 20 years ago, no one really expected such a situation to occur. Nobody. He had no idea that we would ever talk about having someone in our ranks who is legally convicted and will be elected and may be able to perform this function from prison. It is more than clear, and we all know, that John Janša is not, in fact, equally divided, than all other Members, and in this respect he cannot, in fact, carry out this profession. However, in view of Article 14 of the Constitution, which states that we are all equal before the law, especially when we speak of Members and Members who are supposed to be examples, we all fall here on the exam. What lawyers will decide in the Constitutional Court or before other proceedings are needed is, of course, their decision, after all, a judicial branch of power, and it is only right that we do not comment on this until such decisions are made. What is important to us is that we today have a decision that is not what we expected in the Alliance, and that is why we did not support it on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, because we were already at the constitutional session of the opinion that the law is clear and that we can really understand the facts and, once the mandate has been confirmed, we would also really have all the conditions for the mandate to be extinguished. However, since there was so much dust and so much dilemma, we have come to take one step further. We will first find that, whatever the reasons for Article 9 of the third indent are not fulfilled, it is said that it can be a Member, and, of course, if this decision is not adopted, what we expected will actually happen on August 1st. I have to say for myself that there is an urgent need to find out something here. This matter has already shown more than clearly that the government, which today has all the levers of power, must, after this meeting, resolve systematically at all three levels, both executive and judicial, who can, in fact, perform and when and under what conditions, perform this function. Whether it was in the past or today or it will happen. And I believe that after this day we will be able to discuss this much more without burden, and more importantly, this must happen immediately. We will, of course, be against the proposed decision in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u53	The text is by the Parliamentary Group of Mir Cerar Party, Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u54	Dear Madam Vice President, the esteemed choir! At today's 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are discussing and deciding on one of the basic content of parliamentary action – the status of the parliamentary mandate. In democratic systems, a Member is the first and central subject of politics, a man of politics who must live for politics and not from politics. It is subject to normative and, in particular, ethical principles. In this function, it protects and represents the interests of people and their country at home and abroad through their opinions, attitudes, behaviours and actions. In order to demonstrate the high social value of the mandate, while fully protecting both Members and Members as well as the people and the country they serve, legal regulation in democratic systems has defined specific benefits for centuries, while also imposing a series of specific restrictions on the functioning of the mission. Members and Members shall, when acting in their function as Members, be legally protected by the institution of parliamentary immunity in order to protect and to protect their activities. According to Article 83 of the Slovenian Constitution, this means, I quote: "that they are not criminally responsible for the opinion or vote expressed at meetings of the National Assembly and its working bodies. The Member shall also not be imprisoned nor shall criminal proceedings be instituted against him without the permission of the National Assembly if he invokes immunity and has not been found guilty of a criminal offence for which a prison sentence of more than five years has been prescribed." As they are further protected, however, Members and Members must be adequately limited in order to ensure the highest legal security of the citizens and nationals of that country serving them. In cases where there are reasons why Members are no longer legally recognized as being able to represent their people and countries without burden, for specific, individual, health, professional, criminal or personal reasons, the legal norm provides that they shall be formally terminated for the same reasons. These legally defined aspects of parliamentary action dictate the legal democratic development of each system, which is previously initially recognized and decisively enhanced by the ethical standards of society and the personal values of Members and Members. These standards should be particularly self-evident in terms of the nature of the function and nature of the work, so that they are not only inappropriate, but also inappropriately defined only with a firm legal norm. Nevertheless, they need to be identified more or less directly in conceptual ideas and forms of basic system-wide national legislation. Personal independence and non-burden must be highlighted in the first place between those standards and the standards of the Member's mandate, which prevents Members and Members from taking advantage of their own needs at the expense of the State's public good and service, with their past, current and future actions. Furthermore, the openness standard allows them to seek comprehensive information and opinions in their operations and to have free and unrestricted access to anyone at any time, as this is necessary for their decision-making for the public interest and well-being. Finally, we are talking about the standard of responsibility that Members and Members take for the decisions taken and so that they can control the functioning of the country smoothly and without burden. Only when, together with legally defined standards, moral pre-conditions are also met can it be expected that the State, by its Members and Members, can be represented and guided without burden of its own interests and with the highest possible authority and integrity to serve the public good of its people. In the SMC Group, we believe that it is crucial today that the further democratic, legal and moral development of our country be conducted without burden, responsibility, respect and honour in and for the common well-being of all of us. Allow me to conclude by reading only the following words of Hannah Arendt, spoken centuries ago. He says: "Life is the process in which we are held by necessity. But politics is the opposite of a miracle, an event that I can jump out of. It is realistic to expect miracles in politics, because they are the most possible here, so I can count on them." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u55	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get Urosh Prikl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Today, there were extremely beautiful, resounding words about ethics, morality and personal integrity, as new qualities by the entire ruling coalition and its extensions to the opposition. I am very pleased, because I rightly expect, and I express this on behalf of all the voters and voters in Slovenia, that after your conduct and conduct today in general regarding the mandate of Janez Janša in recent months will prove to be what it is – a grave violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and as a conscious, grave violation of human rights and freedoms – all of you have collectively resigned and left politics where you are judging by your socialist reflection of correcting electoral results. It's a history dump. Indeed, the dilemma that we have been hearing about for three months now, and this is your only measure to revive the Slovenian economy, is the removal of Janez Janša's mandate, this dilemma is false. And this is no longer a matter of ignorance when you discuss it, but it is a conscious lie and deception on your part, which also has elements of corruption. Because you hired a group of experts to make you an opinion that is completely worthless. And you knew that at the time, for you were warned by the Legal Service of the National Assembly. And today you had an awful lot to say about the fight against corruption. Great. Start with yourself. Stand down because you're corrupt. And that's not indictive, ladies and gentlemen, really, because you've proven it by your actions. Now, why does it really matter that we start talking about legal facts for once? The legal fact is that this dilemma could have existed if the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights had not already judged it. This is said, according to Article 3 of the Slovenian Constitution, the authority of the people, executes directly at the referendum and indirectly with the elections. That is the Slovenian constitution. And no one else has power, no one has power. And if anything is to be limited or prevented in a constitutional, corrective way, it should be limited in the law before the elections. Fixing the results back is a socialist reflex, and then some avant-garde corrects the wrong decision of the people. That's exactly what you're doing, and you're doing it consciously. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is a grave violation of human rights and freedoms, because passive and active electoral rights are fundamental human rights protected by the Slovenian Constitution. And you know that very well. And now you are not only violating electoral rights, the right to be loved by Janez Janša or a specific MP, but much worse, you are today violating the human rights of 6 000 116 voters and voters who have given their vote to this person. This is no longer about one violation, but it is about a massive grave violation of human rights by voters and voters. And that's why you have to step down if you keep doing this because you're doing this consciously. In fact, when the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ruled in similar cases concerning the question of the mandate, it was very clear that there was a passive right to vote, the right to be loved, three elements. The first is to let someone go to the polls. The second is to receive a mandate on the basis of election votes. Both of these rights have already been realized here, because Janez Janša's mandate was approved unanimously in the National Assembly, based on the votes of the voters and voters he received most, more than anyone in Slovenia in these elections. And now there remains the third, inseparable part of the electoral right for which the Constitutional Court is the Constitutional Court in decision UI-317/11 of 15. 12. In 2011, three years ago, it clearly stated: "The third aspect of passive electoral law means the right to exercise in the elections of the obtained term." Ladies and gentlemen, implementation in full, without any substantive restrictions, without shifting and not allowing anyone to be a member of any commission, and even less so as to be able to limit it in time and to be given a term of office in the middle of the term. What you are doing is a deliberate counter-constitutional act, which has already been decided by the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen. The Constitutional Court never goes against itself, and you know it well. So, by chance, there's a second round of elections on Sunday, and that's what's happening today. Just as the Patria affair happened to get messy in front of every election, that's all by chance. Isn't it? About the abuse of institutions some other time. Well, what's essential is that people understand what this is all about. Constitutional Judge Dr. Sovdat wrote: "A passive electoral right with the approval of the candidacy means that the right as a candidate to take part in the political struggle for power and, on the basis of the electoral outcome of the vote, has grown to a new quality, into a obtained mandate. Therefore, in such a case, its passive electoral right, the right to be loved, which is also a human right guaranteed by the second paragraph of Article 43 of the Constitution, also includes the right to exercise the mandate thus obtained." Until enforcement, ladies and gentlemen, fully and without restrictions. Whatever the reason, all you're saying today is moralizing, it can hold, it can't hold. But this does not exist in the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, it should be thought of earlier. Moreover, in Decision UI-317/11, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia merely drew attention to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and used it as one of the grounds for its decision. It stated, therefore, that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia had pointed out the following: "As regards parliamentary elections, the position of the European Court of Human Rights is also that Article 3 of Protocol No 1 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which regulates the right to free elections, also contains the right to exercise the mandate obtained." Ladies and gentlemen, you are consciously violating the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and the fundamental democratic principles protected by the European Court of Human Rights as enshrined in the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This is all the truth about today's session, and everything else is a diversion. And more, look, what I have before me is the judgments of the European Court of Justice on this matter, another one that I will quote right now, because it is extremely interesting. In several such cases, the European Court of Justice has already ruled, from its seat in the Parliament of one of the countries, the European Court of Human Rights has written down that such an act is in grave breach of the sovereign power of the people to elect someone for a mandate, and of course it violates the right of that person to exercise his mandate. This is all written down, ladies and gentlemen, there is no legal dilemma here. And, of course, everything I said about the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is recorded in these judgments. I'm not surprised that you've reported so little time today because you know that all legal arguments on this side, but you have nothing, you're just politicizing and relying on the favor of the media, that they'll shut up what doesn't suit you, but those are legal facts, legal facts that say that you are a grave and conscious violation of human rights and that people will not know about it. So today the meeting is public and the truth cannot be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many words before about what is happening here today. Today, on your part, it is obvious that more than 6,000 Slovenian citizens and citizens want to be gravely violated by human rights. And it's a shame that this is happening! Also, the person who led the National Assembly, who had had a lot to say about ethics before, belongs to that parliamentary group led by Dr Cerar, who has always stressed ethics, cannot defend legal ignorance, nor can Dr Cerar plead against it, because they have adequate legal knowledge, as does the head of the commission who last conducted the procedure, which is also a professor of law. This is what it means to be aware of illegal conduct, and it should be taken care of. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer something that would touch one person, let's go over it once. It's a matter of principles, exactly what you've turned on your own. It is questions of safeguarding the fundamental principles of democracy by which the people have authority and no one else and no one has any right to re-establish some of the people's decisions, whatever it has been. Not because one is yellow, green or convicted or anything else. If anything had to be limited, we should limit it to the elections before. But when someone received the votes of the electorate and the electorate, the power of the people, which is the highest value, was realized. That is why I would like to conclude by reminding you that there was even one case, given that you have a constitutional majority, that was Lykourezos v Greece, who ended up in the European Court of Human Rights when they wanted to throw someone out of Parliament by amending the Constitution, and they did. Do you know what the European Court of Human Rights has done? He said that even with the change of constitution, it is not permissible to change the rules of the game backwards when it interferes with the will of the people. And he returned the mandate, received compensation, Greece received the legal slap of the European Court of Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, given the shame you have experienced with Mrs Bratuškov in Brussels the last time, I wonder how much more shame we will have to experience before the European institutions to see who is who. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if you continue to do so on behalf of those principles that you have advocated for yourselves, in the name of ethics, morality and personal integrity, when you experience a collapse in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia or in the European Court of Human Rights, I expect and demand that you all resign.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u57	Uroš Prikl has the word to prepare Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u58	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! I must start by saying that I expected different types of discussions with my election to the National Assembly. I expected substantive discussions, I expected discussions that would result in a solution for the economy, solutions for businesses and solutions for people to help them to do better tomorrow. Again, I did not expect such discussions, I did not expect such an event, such a tone in some previous debaters. I have to find that, of course, the matter is quite complicated. Unfortunately, there is no uniform legal opinion that would then arise. Believe me, personally and also in the parliamentary group or in the party Desus, we have, and will always and always advocate absolute respect for legal rules, laws and, above all, human rights and freedoms. Indeed, it is true that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion, stated that the withdrawal or termination of the term of office may also be constitutionally controversial. Of course, emphasis is on the word "may". Therefore, there was no uniform opinion, so the National Assembly decided to seek a second reference opinion. As you know, a group of experts, constitutional lawyers, doctors of legal science have been formed, which some do not recognize. She wrote it down like she wrote. I have to say, of course, that wasn't enough for me either. I am not a lawyer, so I have been given further training from some experts, some experts in law, constitutional law, and I am finally ahead of a decision or a dilemma on how to vote today. And I think I was convinced by the lawyers I consulted, by the legal opinions placed on my desk, and I was able to examine them that there was a reason for the termination of my mandate. But to tell you the truth, everyone here in this room, all the voters and all the electorates, I would have made the same decision if it were any other person. And I do not believe that my decisions are necessary and should not be personalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u59	The word is Violeta Tomić, to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u60	Honourable Vice President, Honorable National Assembly! Today's address will be devoted to fellow Members of the SDS. I've met some of you on committees as reasonable people, so today I find this increasingly unreasonable, although unfortunately unexpected. In the witty Allo Allo! coat, which makes the fascists laugh, they tend to say, "Listen very carefully I will say it only once." I will say what I have to say just once, because too many words have been used up and too much time in this National Assembly. We're all the same before the law. Prisoners go to jail, and by no means, my dears, to the road, to the house or to work. No matter what their name, position, power, or money is. I'm sure that you're your president and your client can afford the best lawyers, and they can solve how much he's guilty and how much he's not guilty, but as long as he's legally convicted, there's nothing to do in the National Assembly. The search for holes in the law means that everything that is not explicitly forbidden in our country is permitted. And there's something else we need to clear up, Your Honor. Janez Janša is not a political prisoner, as you wrote there, but he is a political prisoner. Just like my friend Brelusconi and Sanader. Pika. For two months in the National Assembly, we only deal with him. For 20 years, the whole of Slovenia has dealt only with it. And even voters vote only for him or against him, while the state is sinking. For God's sake, hungry people pay us. Shouldn't we go do something smarter? For 20 years you have been sitting in this House, and you have no idea what battle means for everyday bread and survival outside these safe walls. It's actually a joke from all of us. And 80% of the voters who didn't vote your party. However, to sit in the National Assembly of Legally Condemned Politics, forgive me, the comparison is the same as sending a legally convicted pedophile to work in a kindergarten. Of course it's not all John Janša's fault. It's not. It is also our fault that we have allowed ourselves to be entangled in our selfish games. And not all of us who don't fall for the fact that it's normal for someone to not be able to explain why 200 000 euros are in the bag, while people are starving to death, we're not all puppy commies right now. The world is not black and white, my dear. The world has thousands of colors and nuances. We just don't buy that stuff that's allowed. You've earned your independence, your country, your anthem, but you know, Slovenia is also ours. Remember – The country is one, assigned to all of us. The same people you once cried out: Tito Tito, now you are squawking before the court: Janša Janša. But Tito didn't need a payment for the people who yelled his name. You know, it's all demodé, you're lost in time, it's not the year 2000, it's 2014! And by no means 1945 or 1990. Hello, fellow laughing. I know that because of those words, as always, I will be in all your media the next day. And if you don't find anything, you'll make it up. As my colleague Trček has already said, we are being threatened online by Members who will vote for Janez Janša's term to end, even with death. I wonder if this is how you see democracy, that it threatens people, that independent Members are intimidated, and whether you even support it. That is why I declare here, before the National Assembly and in front of the entire Slovenian public, that Janez Janša will personally be guilty if anything happens to me or to any of us, because I will vote on my conscience. I will vote that his term of office ends. Not because I had anything personal against him, but if it were anyone else. And in the end, just one thing, let's clear up who we're talking about today. We have three people on the wallpaper, one John Janša, and one John John Janša is John John John Janša. So there won't be another procedural complication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u61	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u62	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For a third month now, since we are dealing with the question of whether someone who is legally convicted of a criminal offence can sit in Parliament for a period of more than six months and serve as an MP. I believe myself – and I have relied on the opinion of the lawyers who gave an opinion – that Article 9 of the Law on Members is clear. Above all, it is necessary to take into account the purpose of the law and the very provisions of Article 9 of the Law on Members. This stipulates that a Member shall cease his term of office — and please do not jump into the floor — if he is legally sentenced to imprisonment for more than six months. It does not mention whether this happened before or after the term of office. The purpose of the law is to prevent any person who is legally convicted of a crime from acting as an MP. Everything else is looking for a legal hole in where it's not. This is to ensure that someone who is politically important is given a different, more favourable treatment than someone else, i.e. an ordinary citizen. There is no reason, in my opinion, that a Member who has been convicted of a criminal offence before the confirmation of the mandate and a Member who has been convicted after the mandate has been confirmed, while a criminal sanction is still being carried out, should be treated differently. For both of them have lost the trust required to perform their duties by virtue of the jurisdiction of the conviction. Moreover, due to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, both Member States cannot perform their functions as they should. Public confidence, not one Member or another, cannot be gained on the basis of the will of the people. The will of the people cannot destroy the judicial judgment of the court, by which it is found that a person who could otherwise have run as an MP has committed a criminal offence for which he must go to a six-month prison. The authorities, indeed, have a people in the country, but as in every democratic country, power is divided into three branches in Slovenia. One of these is the judiciary. If, as proposed, we could bypass a judicial judgment, this would mean that matters that are otherwise decided by the judiciary will be decided by the people. Then let the people annul a judicial judgment at a public assembly. Please, therefore, the Vice-President must be prevented from violating the principle of equality before the law laid down by the 14th Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and it must be established that there is a legal consequence that this principle was created under the law itself. [[…]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are talking, here today the National Assembly intends to find that there is a legal consequence, namely the legal consequence of the crime. This legal consequence would not be discussed if it were not for us to be clear. But the court found that there had been a legal conviction and that there had been a crime. And we decide the consequences, I repeat, of a crime. Therefore, the National Assembly must, on the basis of a notice from the Mandate-Electorial Commission, take a decision which is in accordance with the Law on Members and thereby get the prison out of Parliament where it belongs. The conviction for a criminal offence is a legally established fact and has already been tried before a court. Therefore, the debate on the legal proceedings concluded in Parliament constitutes an unacceptable attempt to discredit the judiciary, trying to prove that the judiciary is to blame for the situation. No, fellow Members, we cannot discuss the judgment in Parliament, we cannot. We cannot discuss what has been found legally in Parliament. This should be prevented by both legislative and executive authorities. Today we decide whether the same rules apply to everyone in the Republic of Slovenia. If they do, it is only on the basis of this opinion of lawyers that there can be no doubt as to the interpretation of Article 9 of the Law on Members. And the text of this Article is clear: you cannot be a Member if you are legally sentenced to prison for more than six months. This is a matter of unprecedented decision. And this is where we decide the consequences of a criminal offence legally established. What we decide today will also be decisive for the future. I will therefore take the legal opinion into account myself. Opinions are different, we have found, but I am sure that there is a legal opinion that you cannot be an MP if you are legally sentenced to a prison sentence that is longer than six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u63	I ask for mutual respect. Joze Tanko wanted procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, I don't know why we shouldn't discuss the verdict. Earlier, at the beginning of the meeting, the President of the National Assembly had raised a package, showing that he had the judgment from which the National Assembly was informed. And that judgment of the Court is also the basis for what is now taking place in the National Assembly. I propose, Madam Vice-President, that you suspend the session and divide the judgment that only the President of the National Assembly and none of us have had. And none of us were sent through the official post office of the National Assembly. I think it's right that we stop pretending what the National Assembly can discuss. If you have received a judgment, the President of the National Assembly shall have it, then distribute it to all Members, so that we can then discuss in a sufficiently qualitative and reasoned manner further the discussion and debate at this point of the agenda. Until then, I suggest you stop the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u65	Thanks for the suggestion. I don't intend to interrupt the session. Any judgment can be obtained. The word is Eva Irgle, to prepare Jean Mahnič. Mr. Tanko procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u66	Madam President, I don't think this is appropriate for what you're doing. You systematically prevent both the President and you from getting to know the documents that exist in this National Assembly. And we Members didn't get that. You can check that out, you can check on the assistant secretary, and you'll see she's holding it. Share that judgment that we will all know the same as our first among us. The second thing I would suggest again, Madam President, is that because of all the manipulations that are taking place in the National Assembly, the President proposed that both opinions be read by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Neither of these two opinions gives a few arguments for the debates, such as Mrs Murgel, who spoke vehemently about the legal opinion. Not a little bit, not a straw to hang my debate on. And I propose, given that we are an institution, probably in the public interest, too, the National Assembly, but also that we are acting in the public interest and that we are the only public institution to read this to people, so that they will not be victims of manipulations here by members of the ruling party. I offered you two legal and legal ones to read it myself, if that's difficult for any of you. [[…]] But it is unworthy that no one cites the only official document in the National Assembly, the only official document, the only authentic document, and it was written by the Legislative and Legal Service, operating under the pyramid of the President of the National Assembly, not under our opposition, but under the pyramid of the President of the National Assembly. Both, these two proposals, please take into account, set time or interrupt, distribute material, so much that Members will know, we too will know what it says in the judgment, and that we will then be able to reliably base our position on the judgment which is the basis of the political process and, of course, that people will know what it actually says in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. That's what needs to be done. Whether someone likes it or not is another question, but depending on how the meeting is going, it is essential. That is why I propose that you achieve both points.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u67	Thank you. As I said before, with regard to the judgment, I do not intend to interrupt the session, so that this judgment may be reproduced, divided. We have received material for the meeting, including from your parliamentary group. As far as the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is concerned, however, we have already discussed this at the time of consideration of the agenda, so that Eva Irgle has the Word. [[…]] Procedural. But I'm asking you to really refer to the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u68	The President-in-Office shall refer explicitly to the procedure and manner in which the meeting is held. I propose that legislative and legal opinions be read for the public. The public is not familiar with these two opinions. Not with the first, not with the second opinion, but both of them are moving not to the Forum 571 mobile perpetuum, but to the legal basis in force in this country. I do not know why it is such a problem to familiarise the Slovenian public with the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. If the National Assembly is to act in the public interest, it is said that the known facts that we do not have at our disposal cannot be presented, you hide them to the Slovenian public, then it is more than clear in advance that this procedure does not proceed according to the rules, it does not proceed transparently, it does not follow the business regulations. And the Slovenian public has reasons to hide. Worse still, these two legal opinions, which you do not want to read, are abused by the reasoning that Mrs Murgel, a former judge, used to have. They're being abused for quoting an opinion, not telling whose opinion it is. It explains things that are completely contrary to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Constitution and the laws do not allow the procedure for the termination of the term of office to be carried out as set out in the coalition. That's not possible. I have told you this in my delegation's position, I have already explained this to you several times with procedural suggestions, but you have consistently used the argument of power, you are using the right given to you by the presidency, and you are preventing people from being informed of what is only relevant to this process that you will decide is only relevant. The legislative and legal opinions, once again, do not give any basis for the procedural implementation of the decision adopted by the majority in the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There's absolutely no basis. There's absolutely no basis. And that's what you're covering up to the Slovenian public. We know what the interest is, but it's unfair for people to do it. If you don't have enough, if you don't have enough knowledge to be able to argue otherwise and use cover-up, then with this coalition, with this majority in the National Assembly something is seriously wrong. [[sign for the end of the debate]] What is said in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, I therefore propose that you do so. [[…]] The public is probably expecting this after all these procedural matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u69	This issue has already been decided today. The opinion is also published on the portal, so please have the following word Eva Irgle. Get Jean-Mahnič ready. Mr Tanko, I will not give you any more words, Members of Parliament, in this regard. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please. Marjana Kotnik Popot, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much. With regard to Mr Tank's procedural proposal, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service by all Members, we have read, we have read and we are informed and we are deciding Members, not by the Slovenian public, who should now read to it, which is why we think this is irrelevant. You've already found out that this has already been decided. And that the court's judgment should be handed down. We do not decide today or have nothing to do with this judgment. We have on the agenda the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission on the mandate of the Member. It's over. So I ask that this be taken into account and that we stop with some proposals that are not the subject of this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u71	I propose that if there is anything new and that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is no longer referred to. Procedural. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u72	Madam President, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has not been read to the Slovenian public. The National Assembly did not vote on this. Unfortunately, the President, as you are now, has rejected the proposal to read it without explanation. The debates here have said that the Slovenian public expects this. There is a public opinion, the Slovenian public, but a key document, which is important for this Slovenian public, and this is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and you do not want to present that someone would read it here or take it away or whatever. You're preventing this. On the one hand, you refer to the Slovenian public and their wishes or expectations, which are based on manipulation and biased information that you have given to the public and, on the other hand, you prevent the Slovenian public from familiarising itself with all the circumstances of the proceedings that we are witnessing to him today. I propose that you make my procedural proposal to read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service for the purposes of the Slovenian public, to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u73	The opinion of the Legal and Legal Service is published on the portal and can be read by everyone and has never been used here to read all laws. Anyway, I suggest we move on now. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Jean Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I have repeatedly pointed out at the meeting of the Commission on Elections to the effect that the question of the withdrawal of the mandate of a member of the National Assembly should never, at any time, be and cannot be a political issue, since this is a first-class legal issue. Which means that today's decision must be based solely on the constitution and on the laws adopted by this very national assembly, and by no means on the political preferences of an individual, to a Member, in this particular case, to John Janša. Most prominent lawyers have made it clear in their views that the withdrawal of the mandate of Janez Janša means unconstitutional conduct. That it also entails the withdrawal of a mandate in violation of the Declaration on Human Rights. And that the final withdrawal of Janez Janša's mandate means, in some way, the destruction of the rule of law in this country. But that doesn't mean anything to you in the coalition. The legal and legal service is in its opinion, which you do not wish to elaborate here before the public today. Probably because it is too burdensome for you, because it is clear and because it is clearly stated that the termination of Janša's term of office could be constitutionally disputed, since it applies under the law on Members only to Members who, at the time of the sentence, are already in office, but not to those who have obtained a post-judgment. Also one of the lawyers, Dr. Andraž Teršek, recently, I think it was for Studio City, said that in some way to sort things out backwards it doesn't in the way that you want it to, and that it's unacceptable. And that any intervention in the mandate obtained at this time constitutes an act of non-constitutional nature. John Janša's mandate has been confirmed by all of you, who today, on the basis of political preferences and not by law and constitution, will be taken away from him. You confirmed his mandate on the Mandate-Election Commission and also in this National Assembly. Neither one of you came forward to make this questionable. Nor is the President of the Commission on Elections, not to mention the President of the National Assembly, who is the first to watch over the constitution, the laws, what we accept here in the National Assembly. He didn't say anything would be controversial because there was no dispute. But today you have decided to withdraw this mandate. Moreover, since you did not like the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, you have set up such an ad hoc group of lawyers who have then prepared a liked opinion. Perhaps we could read this legal opinion here at this session if anyone wanted to. These lawyers on this committee were exactly five. And all of these five lawyers, you've also got a lot of money for that. On the other hand, we have 24 lawyers, those who have made themselves known and have nothing to do with the Slovenian Democratic Party or with the right option, but these are young, unburdened lawyers, 13 of whom come from the Legal and Legislative Service, the other 11 are unburdened lawyers, even more, one of them is Mr Matvež Krivic, and the one who repeatedly opposes Janez Janša is clear here – the withdrawal of the mandate could be constitutionally controversial. And today this National Assembly is not supposed to do that. But one more thing, these 24 lawyers didn't get a special payment for saying that. The 5 lawyers that you hired solely to write your like opinion got paid. But what's that amount, we don't get an answer. I do not know how many times Jože Tanko, the leader of the Group of Members, asked what was the payment for these five lawyers. We don't get any answers. So today, ladies and gentlemen, you will decide politically. You will be taking away the mandate of a member of the National Assembly, who has made democracy for this country and for the development of democracy, but I can say as much in this country as possible. And that's just because you're cultivating some big antipathy to sit in the National Assembly, a person who's won over 6,000 votes. And once again, this is not a political issue, what you will do, you will make a political decision, but it is a legal question. And here we should respect the Constitution and the laws. When the Constitutional Court says you've acted against the Constitution, I expect you to know what moves you'll have to take. At the very least, what I expect is that the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission will resign from his position and that the President of the National Assembly will withdraw immediately from his position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u75	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Colleague Irgle deceives the Slovenian public. Each of the parties plus our coalition had the right to propose a single lawyer. You proposed to Mr Kučan, I can say in a joke, maybe the money was too small and he didn't want to accept it. New Slovenia has renounced its proposal. In short, we had six proposals and five lawyers, more than seven could not sit here. And we can't compare it to 24 or 30 or 50. It's like they say, there's so many playing hockey, and there's so many playing athletics playing with the baton. Let's stop deceiving the Slovenian public! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u77	I suggest that you follow the procedure when it comes to procedural matters to announce what is going on and then explain. That wasn't procedural. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, thank you for warning the Member who spoke before me that he could replicate, but not having a procedural proposal like this. Mrs. Irgle said only known facts. He can count anyone and he doesn't need a college and he doesn't need anything to count those legal opinions that are available. I now have one other procedural question, Madam President. At the end of this point, Dr Mitja Horvat's proposal was written. It is written to say and respond to the debates of Members, to the statements made at this point in the agenda. Unfortunately, I note that the proposer has not taken advantage of this opportunity so far, but many questions have been raised both in the views of the parliamentary groups and in the debates of Members, and has not yet made a single statement to explain to us whether we are right or wrong – Is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly relevant and legal? We have been talking about this all the time, in the substantive work and procedural work. I propose, ma'am, or I demand that Mr Mitja Horvat, Mr Horvat, explain and explain these dilemmas, which are obviously unclear to us in these finesse. For we have, as it seems, the only wrong opinion and misread the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. All the others who discuss it, I see, understand it differently. And I would really ask that the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, Dr. Horvath, teach us whether we are right in our positions or wrong. In fact, an important part or a key part of this meeting takes place directly on the issue of whether there are constitutional and legal reasons for the procedure being carried out, for the termination of the mandate or for these reasons. Nor does the ad hoc group of those experts suggest that this is possible. They gave an option which is not in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Other solutions are written in such a way that they are not in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. And I would really like you, Dr. Horvat, to clear this dilemma for the SDS Members, but you have the time announced and please do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u79	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that you are not using procedural questions to discuss. We have a general debate on this between Members and Members. Dr Horvat will come as a member after you have been notified to Members and Members of Parliament. Otherwise, he'll respond the way he wants. You want a procedure? Here you go. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. It may not be clear to all, but the applicant may be able to get involved in the debate at any time during the debate and things. I find that, after two or three hours, Dr Mitja Horvat, President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, has not done so. A number of questions, a number of dilemmas, more or less all of them on the legal opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service and on legal opinions or on the personal legal opinions of many legal experts have been raised in the opinions of the expert group. And I think that the applicant is the one who has processed this item on the agenda with all these materials, to also answer and explain this point, which is 95% of the legal profession does not understand as you explain it in the coalition. In addition to the five lawyers appointed by you in the expert group, all others give written and oral views and statements which are completely contrary to what is stated in the expert group's opinion. Quite the opposite. And if anyone does, then the proposer of the point is obliged to clear us up, so that we can see where these differences are. Otherwise, Madam President, you are only working to spend time, take a point and move the dead cold to the vote without clearing up any views or dilemmas in the debate. The essence of the plenary session is precisely to clarify the open issues related to the agenda item. This is what we require all the time, and we also suggest that the Slovenian public be informed with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, because you speak only of the expert group's opinion, but you also reject it all the time. You don't even put it to the vote. I have previously requested and put forward a procedural proposal for a vote on this as well. You're rejecting that. I think that now, in this case, the proposaler is obliged to explain these things, and I demand that this explains that we do not go to the end of the meeting, that we all go forward in this doubt and then just press on the keys, as was the custom in this mandate. Those who have a position are silent, voting, the others are talking, no one is responding, and then they vote what is being voted on. I demand an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u81	Thank you. The fourth paragraph of Article 66 states that the applicant may also be given the floor during the debate of Members. I've never seen Mr. Mitja Horvat raise his hand before. He'll probably be when he wants. I propose that we proceed with the debate. The word has been given by Jan Mahnič, to prepare Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I myself will not speak of the opinion of five legal experts, because this opinion is irrelevant to me, because at least four of these political opponents are John Janša. But I will read three opinions from lawyers who responded by themselves, who wrote an opinion because they felt that they had to respond in the event of such violations. With regard to the judgment itself, which is why we are talking about this today. Ddr. Klemen Jaklič, double doctor of legal science and lecturer of law and ethics at Harvard University: "In this particular matter, neither the time nor the place are known. My understanding of the case is that there is no evidence of who the person who was offered the prize was. Most importantly, there is no indication of how this person, John Janša, would accept this promise. But the promise must be accepted, and it is not enough to be offered. Both sides have to agree and agree. We also need a witness to confirm that someone has agreed, either the recording or some other evidence. None of this can be found on this matter." And now two opinions from two young lawyers, which are based on article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says: "In Slovenia, the people have authority. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections." And I also think that citizens and citizens are the ones who decided to elect Janez Janša to the National Assembly. The first is Dr. Matthew Avbla's opinion: "It is obvious that the legislator of the case, as we now have before us, did not foresee and regulate it legally. He did not legally exclude convicted persons from the parliamentary elections, which he could have done to take into account for this purpose the strict requirements of the principle of proportionality. Which is not prohibited, of course. The application of the third paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members is thus excluded." And also Dr. Toplak: "In the opinion of the lawyers who attach to the interpretation of which Article 9 of the Law on Members would also apply to situations that existed prior to the elections, the purpose of the legislator or other method of interpretation of Article 9 of the Law on Members should be taken into account, but the purpose of the legislator is not at all relevant, since the law is unconstitutional if we are to interpret it in such a way as to extend it also to cases where the changed situation occurred before the mandate was confirmed. The Constitution shall not allow the withdrawal of a mandate on the basis of the circumstances which existed prior to the approval of the mandate." I hope that, or I believe, after Janša's appeal, the Constitutional Court will also find you standing above Article 3 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Today you will take away Mr Janša's mandate, but you will not change certain facts. You will not change the fact that Janez Janša is one of the most deserving of independent Slovenia, which probably bothers you a lot here. You will not change the fact that one of Slovenia's Members has done a great deal of shame in Brussels. You will not change the fact that the Mir Cerar Party — as reads and heard in the halls — will soon fall apart in two parts. And you will not change the fact that within one year neither Mira Cerar nor the ministers will be in the government anymore. And one more thing. After the next election, Janez Janša will still be a Member, but the vast majority of you will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u83	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare for Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. First of all, I apologize for the violation of the procedural officer who was violated by my colleague Tanko today, no doubt more than I did. I thank my colleague Mahnič for looking at the ball and telling us where we'll be in a year. I went online yesterday to see how long it took to save Ryan's soldier. I spent 169 minutes on a couple of pages. The last meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission lasted 3.4 lengths of Ryan's soldier's rescue. Ambassador Grimes said that all those who would vote against us were a collaboration. And I'd like to talk a little bit about this collaboration quickly. I wonder how many jobs we lost in saving John’s soldiers. I'm sorry my friend Tonin isn't here. I'm sure he'd know that answer. Yesterday I was at the top of the Slovenian economy. One word was not about workers, but much about the rule of law. Here you and you are very similar, but of course in a way, I will quote: 'debirocratisation, the public sector does not work, the social cap, down with a minimum wage, deregulation', but nothing, for example, Mrs Ljudmila, self-criticism 'the economists have told us that there is not such a small part of the economic, so-called elites unable to meet the economic challenges of the 21st century'. Third point. Employees at the Centre for Social Work in Maribor are unconscious, experiencing nervous breakdowns from overload. The beneficiaries of emergency aid have already exercised this right twice in the first half of the year. What should the Mariborians and the Mariborians now live on from the luft. Fourth story. TES 6, a monument to Slovenian corruption. We've exceeded the projected price by 2,14 times, and they're in the luft from Patrick's, if we buy them all. Will you now sign the SDS for your country, the rule of law, ethics, SMC and SD, which have cooked this together? Not to mention future problems with a business permit on another matter. Point five. We have recapitalised the banks on the basis of wrong assumptions, based on a methodology that has not yet been disclosed to us. We were European experimental sheep. The banks are sitting on money, the credit crunch is still here. In short, it's some sort of collaboration of old politics that brought us into the present state, and I could talk about it like Urosh could. Constitutional lawyers — I read these opinions for three weeks, and after three weeks, I felt as if I were eating crazy mushrooms at the same time and getting salmonella. This is mostly a gerontocratic patriarchal structure, and this debate reminded me more of the debate of some gentlemen, 70 years of age, whose brandy belongs to which cigars, rather than the serious resolution of constitutional issues. The law is clear enough, but it's a little awkward. Let's stop fooling around because it's been going on for 70 days. For the majority of people and people of Slovenia, I will quote my colleague from the SDS, this is a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u85	The word has Franz Breznik, to prepare Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. If you are holding a meeting, you should be so correct as to alert the Member or to inform him that I have not violated the Rules of Procedure at any point. Not a single point. Contrary to anyone else who is not capable of doing so, he discusses everything possible in such matters and even in the debate. So much so that I expect this from you in the future that you are leading the right way and that those Members who warn others unjustifiably, please also note this. See, ma'am, in the position of the Group of Members, I have read the opinion of Prof. Dr. Yuri Toplak concerning the period before the mandate and the period after the mandate. And it is clear in this opinion that a Member's mandate is being decided and that a complaint to the Constitutional Court is possible and that what we are doing now has no basis in law. That's what the constitutional lawyer wrote. And now I ask again Dr. Mitja Horvat, who is the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and has processed this point of the agenda for the National Assembly to clarify these dilemmas. Is it what Dr. Toplak wrote in his opinion that I read, hold, or hold? Does what is in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service stand or not? Is what is stated in the opinion of paid legal professionals who have not come to the meeting of the Commission of Mandate-Voluntary, as it is written, standing or not? We do not expect the proposaler to clarify all the circumstances relating to this item of the agenda to explain all the dilemmas involved. The fact that the President of the Mandate-Election Commission is using the academic approach and then the last ten minutes ex cathedra will say his position is irrelevant, we don't need it. There is a debate on the agenda item, questions are raised, legal opinions and opinions are cited. And those who have processed this point at the meeting of the National Assembly are obliged to answer that question. He's bound to answer that. The fact that no one comments that no one tells what it is that no one explains anything is simply unworthy of the National Assembly. I demand, I demand that the proposer clear up this dilemma, has time to do so before the matter ends.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u87	Thank you. I see that today no warnings about procedural proposals will remain. We have already talked about this, Mr Horvat has not yet raised his hand to want to discuss. He wants to discuss it? Here you go, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. When I read Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, the grey book, it says, "A Member who wants to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure." Don't invite anyone to do anything. In view of the content, I would like to point out that I agree with Mr Trčko that it is most likely that there are similar attempts, what you, of course, read to me when conducting meetings when I run them. It is, however, the fact that I am only the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and not the judge, and I am not the one who has to explain what is in the documents, because Members have enough of their own knowledge, not saying that I am very glad that most of you have become excellent and distinguished lawyers in these two and a half months and that all Members also have the right to professional assistance, so that I believe that you will be able to get answers on these questions on the basis of the material collected without my explanations, as President of the Mandate-Volution Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u89	Mr. Tanko wants procedural. In a word, please, what are you going to discuss so we don't talk about what we've already talked about? Please. Procedurally short, but something new.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u90	Madam President, all I talk about is procedural matters, not content, the procedure. Now, the drafter of the point is written in the introduction and in conclusion, that means that it is a person, whether it is a government or a Member or a representative of a member group or a working body, who is obliged to explain to Members the open questions when dealing with the item on the agenda. He is therefore obliged to propose the agenda item. The proposer of the agenda item shall have a specific right in this Rules of Procedure to be able to make a public, not when it is written at the end, but whenever he considers that the matter must be clarified. I have said, not for the first time, but now several times, that there is no basis among these legal opinions available to us on one side of the position that the basis for the procedure proposed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission is not and some narrow group that did not want to appear on a working body with any other position. The President of the Mandate-Volution Commission shall, on behalf of the Coalition, the wider coalition, proposer of the agenda item. According to my knowledge of the work of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure, as well as the Order, the Hygiene, it is incumbent on me to clarify all the questions addressed to the proposer. Who else is going to do it? Then we would appoint me or one of my colleagues to propose a agenda item. The proposer shall reply and explain any dilemmas related to the subject matter. You cannot avoid this and, especially, the problem, travel us to our professional services. Our professional services have done their job. That is why I can ask you these things too, so I rightly ask you the answers. The candidate of the point cannot hide behind, I don't know, one pile and wait for this discussion to end in the National Assembly. He is obliged to explain and answer questions. And I can see that there is no will for something like this in this coalition. So you put something in your eyes that you can't see, something on your ears that you can't hear and wait for the time to run out, and then you press the button against Janez Janša at the end of the table. That's the only thing you're still doing. I request, Madam President, that you provide answers to the dilemmas raised in the debate and in the positions of the groups. This is your responsibility to ensure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u91	Thank you. One more time. The proposer may receive a word at any time during the discussion. Initially, the rules of procedure provided for, we had an explanation, we could have requested further explanation and we did not. Now I will no longer give you the floor procedurally in this regard. It's Franc Breznik's turn to prepare Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u92	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. I'm going to continue somehow as I once said, even at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Today's debate here in the National Assembly with arguments for and against all the reality of Slovenian modern society, but above all it is the reality of Slovenian legal profession. So, on one side we have an opinion; for the first time, ddr. Klemna Jaklič, a man who doctored at Oxford and Harvard on the subject of European constitutionality. On the other hand, we have the opinion of Dr. Janez Kranjec, a world-renowned professor and European renowned professor of Roman law, including my professor once. The third lawyer who confirmed the things we're talking about today is the one they quoted today, Dr. Yuri Toplak, who prepared his doctorate at the University of California under the guidance of Professor Lowenstein, who is a world-renowned constitutional lawyer. He then gave his opinion to Dr. Vlad Peru, a constitutional professor of constitutional law at Boston College. Then you know Dr. Terška, Dr. Ondul, Dr. Sturm, Mag. Guilty, Dr Jerovska, Sovdatov and Dr. Matey Avblja. So if you look at their scientific excellence at the COBISS base and on the other hand look at politicians and lawyers, for the first time, Dr. Cyril Ribič, the last head of the Central Committee of a party to the undemocratic regime, who, because we did not have lustration, succeeded in being also a constitutional lawyer, Aleš Zalar, a great politician, a great opponent of Janez Janša, then Dr. Pirnat, Dina Bauk and Franz Grad. So, it's about two legal doctrines being collided. On the one hand, the doctrine of global and European recognised lawyers is, on the other hand, the products of the revolutionary law of the former totalitarian state. It's about people who just studied and were professors, including assistants, sometimes held a stand and so-called law theory at Law School. And you see these two knocks today. It's about understanding the Republic, it's about understanding and it's about the core of democracy. Respectable. I will once again, to be very understandable, read the last legal opinion that Jože Tanko quoted today, in the last paragraph of Dr. Yuri Toplak, because I think he is saying the essence of today's decision. But it's the following opinion. In the last paragraph. "In the opinion of lawyers who attach to the interpretation that Article 9 of the Law on Members should also apply to circumstances that existed prior to the elections, account should be taken of the purpose of the legislator or of the other method of interpretation of Article 9 of the Law on Members. However, the purpose of the legislator is not relevant at all, since the law is unconstitutional if it is interpreted in such a way as to extend even when the changed circumstances occurred before the approval of the mandate. The Constitution does not allow the withdrawal of a mandate on the basis of the circumstances which existed prior to the approval of the mandate." For these situations, the Constitution provides for a second solution, that is to say, the determination of a condition that must not be chosen and provides for a legal remedy in the event of a confirmation of the mandate of a person who should not have a mandate – a complaint to the Constitutional Court. The search for new solutions, in addition to the solution already envisaged by the Constitution, for seeking the so-called system solution or the solution of the purpose of the conviction as some claim, does not allow the constitution. And that is the essence of today's session and the essence of today's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u93	Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the word to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! A few words about today's problem I see. In particular, this is how I see it in terms of the SDS party's President's term of office. That is why we have so many problems, so many procedural proposals and so on. If it were the mandate of any of the other 89 Members, I believe that the problem would have been solved long ago. The next thing I would like to say is that Article 9 of the Law on Members provides that a Member shall terminate his term of office, i.e. the third indent of this Article, if he is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of six months. The term of office shall expire on the date on which the National Assembly finds that such reasons have arisen. The next thing I would like to say or point out is that we are referring to the Slovenian public, who is entitled to hear this and that and that and that it is, above all, that this has been said several times, underlined and once again stressed that the Member has been elected by more than 6,000 votes of voters and voters, but I suggest that we look at the matter from another salary. 82nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution states: "The Members are representatives of all the people." What does that mean? The representative of this people, all Slovenians, is therefore also a Member, whose mandate we are discussing today. Therefore, those other citizens and citizens have the right to have their opinions and their demands as to whether they are the person who may represent them in this national assembly, who may decide on their behalf who may adopt laws on their behalf. It is therefore undeniable that the Member we are talking about today is problematic for all those voters and non-elects. And these electors are demanding that a Member who is legally convicted of a judgment of a court of law, who is serving a term of imprisonment, be held for more than six months in prison at the Dob to prevent such a Member from serving as a Member of the National Assembly. And the termination or termination of the term of office. I believe that the National Assembly must reject the proposed decision which is before us today and which has been proposed by the Commission on Elections in view of the fact that this decision is: the Member shall, irrespective of the reason set out in the third indent of Article 9(1) of the Law on Members, not cease the mandate of the Member and may act as a Member of Parliament. I believe we must vote against such a decision if you have listened to what I have been saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u95	The word has Dr. Vinko Gorenak, we are being prepared. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u96	Thank you very much. At my former job, when it came to heavy security, we said that it wasn't enough to have a regular staff to call in a backup. So let me put it this way. Respectable members of the coalition and reservists, let's put some things on the table. My friend Breznik spoke a little earlier about recognized lawyers. I'm going to be very brief, because I'm time-limited, and I'm going to say something like this: what do we have on this side? On this page we have the opinion of five people, of which there are two policies, two professors for payment – about like pizzas, you order one or the other pizzas, so they do – and the third is probably their clone. And they wrote you a legal opinion for money saying, "Janez Janša can take the mandate." They didn't say you had to, but they said you could take him away. It's in my right. What's on my left? In my left hand, those people who were not ordered by anyone we didn't order in the opposition, but who, by their own conscience, responded according to their own knowledge. Who are they? These are not strange people — Dr. Chebul, Constitutional Judge, Dr. Abel, Dr. Teršek. Then we have a number of other lawyers. Let me mention only Matevža Krivica, who is absolutely your political blood and not your right, we also need to know, Constitutional Judge Jerovšek, Constitutional Judge Sturm, Dr. Novak, and we could list it. Let us not forget the 13 people from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and the doctors of science are among them, and let us put on this list those who have publicly said what they think, these are: Dr. Zob, Dr. Petrič and Dr. Deisinger, all constitutional judges. In fact, they said in a separate opinion that Janša was violating human rights in the process that is why he is today where he is. So we have almost 30 people here who say, "Janez Janša can't take the mandate." They said that voluntarily, they didn't get any pay for it, even your political options are, but they probably respect the profession. On this side we have 5 mercenaries, I will say – because this is not a bad word, they will get the payment because lawyers, at least the ones I see here, do nothing without pay, I don't think the keys open yet, how else to do anything – so on the other hand we have 5 people who say, "Janez Janša can take the mandate." My dears, what can we say? On the one hand are we, who believe that you must not take away his mandate, but on the other hand are you, who will take away his mandate. But your conscience will burn you – you know when, I said that the last time on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u97	The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich. Mr. Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. In previous procedural proposals, I have asked that certain questions, certain dilemmas, which are being addressed and opened when this item is being considered, be clarified by the drafter of the item. Obviously, that's not what he's going to do. I now propose that, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, you assess that these legal dilemmas which I have opened should be resolved at the meeting and that you should therefore call on the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service to give an oral opinion. However, I request an explanation of the Legislative and Legal Service relating to both positions of the Legislative and Legal Service, of the views and statements put forward by the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party as additional material in this legislative procedure, and of the solutions proposed by the expert group. This dilemma in one way or another, Madam President, must be resolved, or these dilemmas must be resolved. If the proposer does not wish to do so, I suggest you use the rules of procedure to follow this proposal, because things are actually open. On the one hand, there is a large majority of Slovenian lawyers, including our Legislative and Legal Service, who considers that there is no constitutional basis for the withdrawal or termination of the mandate, and on the other hand, there is no political machinery that conducts the procedure entirely on a different legal basis, on an unconstitutional legal basis and in disregard of the legislation applicable to the termination or withdrawal of the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. I therefore demand that the Legislative and Legal Service explain its opinion and the dilemmas related to the item on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u99	Thank you. I do not think that it is necessary for the Rule of Law Service to deliver an opinion in particular, and I propose that we proceed with the debate. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, prepare Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Today we are discussing a specific Member and a specific legislative judgment, and I believe that the conditions for us to be able to decide on the basis of the Law on Members are met. Since we also have the right to vote all the time, let me also speak a few words about it and express my opinion. I agree that electoral rights are as indivisible as they are, but we are always talking about two sides of the same coin, one right within the electoral law, and most of us are talking about the self-restraint and commitment of Members, as enshrined in the Law on Members, that if we are sentenced to a prison sentence of more than 6 months, our mandate will be terminated and that we will be deprived of the right to vote, part of the right to vote, and its enforcement. This is because an act for which such a severe sanction is prescribed is indeed a socially repudiated act. Indeed, we have enshrined the right to vote in the Constitution and it has become a fundamental human right, but it is no more human right than any other. Every right is a human right and any right can have judicial protection as well as constitutional protection. Dr. Marko Ilešič, judge of the European Court of Justice, said to the day before yesterday at the Conference on Human Rights in Rome: "There is no absolute right, nor is there an absolute judgment. Each is only a result of weighing and a compromise accepted within the conflict." Why is that? In legal theory and legal practice, no right exists without duty, nor does the right to vote. It establishes the duty of fair enforcement and use. These duties have not been written by the founders of the Constitution, but this does not mean that it is less important than the right. The founders of the Constitution did not do so because it is a commitment to the social civilisation standards and the behaviour of Members to respect the rule of law. [[…]] So today, we are not talking about Mr Janš's right, nor are we judging the guilt in the crime being reported, but rather about his duty and his dignity to prove his innocence under the institutions responsible for it. Only such conduct means fair application of the right. If the Constitutional Court judges our action today, it will not have an easy task. Even though weighing will decide that the right of a Member is over his duty, and annuls the decision, it will not be possible for the majority of us Members, thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of voters, people, as Mrs Popot has already said, to reverse the belief that those who are legally convicted must respect the legal order of the institution until proven otherwise. Your Honor! Colleague Janša doesn't know many of us personally. We're only indirectly involved in the situation. Nevertheless, we have received numerous verbal attacks. Today, you are pushing for us to vote. If we do not make an exception, the Member of Parliament will cease his mandate. There's no third option. Believe me, there will be no winner today and even later in this case. We will all be losers, including colleagues from the SDS, unless Comrade Janša offers his resignation and thus saves his reputation and the reputation of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u101	The word has Jelka Godec, prepare for Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u102	President, thank you very much for your word. If someone did not enjoy and benefit from the fact that the matter has been going on for two months now, they could have decided on August 1, and if it were not just one person, this is for John Janša, we would be discussing something else today. We would discuss amending the legislation in order not to do so at all. Today we would also discuss the situation in Slovenia, and I believe that all our Members would like to discuss this, that is, the situation in Slovenia, rather than the mandate of Janez Janša. You say that the opinions are shared, and already my colleague Gorenak has shown you two pages, namely the opinion of five lawyers, and this is the opinion of all the other fourteen, the Legislative and Legal Service and so on. And these five lawyers, who were hired by the Mandate-Electorial Commission to form a position on the termination of the Member's term of office – that is to say, in the title itself, they said that this was a termination and they were not just talking about the state or mandate. I'm asking you which side you're on. On this one or this one? And if you're on the side of these five lawyers, are you on the right side? Are you absolutely sure about this? That's a tough question to ask. You'll have an answer in a while when the matter is likely to go to the Constitutional Court. And if you're on the side of five lawyers, then I would quote Dr. Terška from Studio City, who said: "On such an important constitutional issue, to give more than one possibility, and that all constitutionally acceptable, such works are constitutionally unknown. The answer must be uniform." And these five lawyers didn't give a single answer, and all of them on this page are. The question is, if his term of office is terminated, it is constitutionally disputed. Or if I quote Domna Gorenska, a lawyer who says, "I have given my vote to the said MP or his party in the early elections to the National Assembly, but I have not dedicated my voice to him, but he has been given more than enough voters who have thus given him the term of office. In my opinion, given the fact that circumstances have not changed in any way since the term of office of Mr Janez Janš, no one has the right to lawfully encroach on his term of office and consequently the will of the people, at least his political opponents." And he continues to quote the articles of the Constitution, which some of you have quoted joyfully today. At the same time, there's only one thing I'd like to do. You keep saying, you compare with public sector employment, that no one, that is to say, who applies for public sector calls, can be employed in the public sector if he has been convicted. Yeah, it's true. Calls shall also require that the criminal record be issued, and that is not the case in the elections. You know all the laws very well, and if you compare them, then you could also compare that worker to a statement that he was convicted of being legally convicted, and the employer said, "Ah, nothing, we will hire him to find out that we can forgive him because he was legally convicted." I think you're all legally qualified to know that such comparisons are purely a deception of the people. I want to know how much ashes you're going to need to get laid with him when the Constitutional Court decides you've acted unconstitutionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u104	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! I fully agree with the discussions that have been held so far in the sense that the prisoner cannot continue to be given a mandate. I would also like to draw attention to the Labour Relations Act. We are all also employees, we are somehow in a working relationship in the National Assembly, we have a salary, we have an annual vacation, we have a regression and all other rights, like other workers in the labour relationship. However, the Labour Relations Act also provides for an exceptional termination of the employment relationship if the worker is a worker on the prison term of more than 6 months, and in our case this is the case. Our Member, Janez Janša, has been serving a prison sentence of more than six months. From this point of view, I also believe that the justification you have already given that a Member cannot continue to be a Member is justified. In particular, in view of the fact that, as often as we point out, all workers must be subject to the same legal order as all workers, that we are equal before the law. So, from this point of view, I also propose that we vote against the proposed decision to terminate the mandate of Mr Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u106	Thank you, Chairman. We've heard evidence of why we've been talking about this for two months, while we could be dealing with more important things. Today, former Judge Murgel has enlightened us with the words, quote: "We are talking here, the National Assembly today intends to find that there is a legal consequence, namely the legal consequence of the crime." Earlier, in the introduction, the President of the National Assembly had highlighted another aspect, namely that the National Assembly had not been properly informed so far and that it was only now that a judgment had come to bear witness to the fact that it was legally binding. But that's not the reason. This reason does not hold true for a simple reason, since look at the magnetogram of the first session 1. 8. In 2014, in which you will find that at least two Members discussed the legal judgment, Mr Hanžek, Mr Möderndorfer, and was already aware of this issue, not today, after two months. And if you did then take the decision you intend to make today, you could talk, as you say, about anti-crisis measures, although one decision in parliamentaryism does not usually interfere with one another. Now if I go back to Mrs. Murgel. In fact, she said why she would vote today to withdraw her term of office, and I quote again: "If applicable," the same rules," then on the basis of this opinion of lawyers, "that is, five lawyers can be found that there can be no doubt as to the interpretation of Article 9 of the Law on Members." I repeat, "there can be no doubt as to the interpretation of Article 9 of the Law on Members." Now, you take this proposal from five lawyers, by which there can be no doubt as to the interpretation of Article 9, and in conclusion of this opinion, I quote: "The interpretation described is not the only possible interpretation of the third paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members." See if former judges, when paid lawyers tell them that there is no possible interpretation of the third paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members, claim this before the public at the National Assembly, then it is not surprising that when they are tried in a court of law, they accept indicative judgments without concrete evidence of events which do not have any concrete event. Today we are witnessing some obsession, now the Mir Cerar Party, about the mandate of the leader of the opposition. Only if I warn or recall, the obsession with one and the same Member has been expressed by members of the Liberal Democracy Party, members of the Party of Positive Slovenia, members of the Party of Virant and members of a small group on the verge of leaving Parliament. But all these parties are or will disappear, but the Slovenian Democratic Party is still here, the second most powerful party in this National Assembly. And I doubt that it is the interest of the Mir Cerar Party to follow those who have taken opposition from the leader of the opposition as their sole and saving goal. Earlier, one of the Members said that, following this decision today, the Government and Parliament must adopt a systemic solution on who can run and who cannot run. In other words, there is no system solution today. And you accept something based on your name and surname, not something based on system regulation. In two months, we could have arranged this system system, but unfortunately you didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The text is by Maria Antoni Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I will be very brief, because today I am only on the 16th day of my term and I must decide on such a complex issue, which I believe should have been resolved systematically long ago. Who am I supposed to believe? To the law or to the people who explain their own laws or articles? I am also obliged to bear the position of my constituents, who are not only older; they include young people and students. And we are all of the same opinion: a person who is a convicted person cannot be a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My view is that today's issue needs to be addressed in a slightly more comprehensive manner. We have read a series of legal opinions, which are more or less focused on active and passive electoral rights, which, in my legal sense, is a little too narrow. We must be aware that today we would not even consider this issue if the Member we are dealing with did not run for office in these elections. We would not have this in the National Assembly today, but we would be dealing with other matters. But he ran and was elected. And I'm wondering here what is the motive of a candidate, anyone who is legally sentenced to prison for going to the polls. What's the message he's carrying? What is his attitude towards the institutions of the rule of law, his attitude towards judicial decisions, his attitude towards the court? Look, I think he's very negative. Let me substantiate my words. According to the judgment of the Court of First Instance, Mr Janez Janša said in many media that he would fight his judgment with all political means. Is that then the purpose of this candidacy? To fight politically against his judgment? If I return to the Law on Members, Article 9. See, this article essentially lays down some legal consequences of a legal judgment where someone is sentenced to imprisonment for more than 6 months, and let us ask ourselves what the purpose of this provision is. I think that the purpose of this provision is to prevent such persons from committing any other crime, in order to prevent them from influencing this judgment by which they have been convicted. And if I come back, I'll do it again. Mr Janša said that he would fight the judgment with all political means. And these are the reasons why I think and firmly believe that the provisions of the Law on Members apply also to those who were convicted before they were elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Mr. Tanko, please proceed procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u112	Dear President! In this debate, Member Zorčič said that according to his taste, the problem of Janez Janša was too narrow. I think you were somehow obliged to warn him, because the rule of law, these are the constitutions and laws, allow anyone without restriction, except to meet those procedural conditions, to run for election, to be elected and to execute a mandate. If you are one Member who speaks of a candidate as a bad attitude towards the rule of law, then you are abusing the understanding of the law and also insultingly accusing someone who has run for office as an MP. What he spoke differently from that was that he interpreted who could run beyond the limitations prescribed by the Constitution and who could not perform a function beyond the laws, past the Law on Members who regulated it. So, I think that those who are sitting must also take care of this, I hope that you master this, that the debates of Members take place also by relying on the constitutional and legal order of this country. Mr Zorčič's debate was a major deviation from the legal regulation and from the rule of law, a significant deviation from that. Mr President, I propose that all such debates, which are malicious, try to discredit a candidate Member in advance, be elected and I would like to carry out a mandate, be prevented. If anyone in this country suspected that anything was wrong with Mr Janša's candidacy, he could have initiated an appropriate procedure on the State Election Commission. You're a lawyer, you've been a political competitor, you've been a stranger, and you haven't even heard from this point in the National Assembly. Do you respect the rule of law and the constitutional order of this country if you speak and prevent someone from performing their functions in contravention of the constitutional and legal order, which is undoubtedly stated in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service? Nor did any body judge this and have been called upon to do so or to decide that John Janša should not perform or run.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. All I have to say is that Mr. Zorčič said what he said. It's his right. He didn't hurt anyone. Many things have been said in this Chamber today, since the failure to comply with the second instance court. It is said that if we weighed these values, then it would be difficult to tell Mr Zorčič that he misinterpreted. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr President, what you have just stated that John Janša does not comply with the second instance judgment is not true. He's not holding anything. Not one who deals with John Janša or his guardian in prison has said so. John Janša fully takes into account what has been judged and carries out the sentence, even though she disagrees with it and also challenges it in the procedures envisaged for this purpose, and therefore such claims are completely inappropriate. He is invited to the meetings of the National Assembly because the legislation and the constitution stipulate that he cannot be prevented from exercising his mandate. And if, as presidents, you manage the session and not just the session, you also decide on the basis of such diversions in the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, then it is difficult to expect that from this country and from this policy, which now controls the National Assembly, anything at all will come about. The claims you've made don't stand. They have no basis, not in the constitution, not in the law, nor in the actual state of affairs related to the case of John Janša. Nothing. Because if any of this were true, then those in charge of executing John Janša’s sentence should act in some other way. They've just decided what to do. And these are the institutions of the rule of law, not the opinion of someone who holds a meeting of the National Assembly, or of us Members, but of someone who is an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and carries out certain tasks in this context. And, Madam President, the President and the President, with each statement, you are further in trouble against what you would like to say – that you respect constitutional and legal order. With each statement you simply crush and trample it, and with each statement more. I suggest you don't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, of course I did not say that Janez Janša did not respect, but I told the debaters in this Chamber, and I think I was perfectly clear at this point. The word has been given to you, sir. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Is this going to be forever? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u116	Mr President, you holding the meeting are obliged to conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You can't just condemn the debaters of the National Assembly to talk. Each time you have only one person in front of you who gives him the word, and each person you give him the word, you can assess whether he speaks according to or does not speak according to it, and remind him. These general convictions, which mainly go to the Slovenian Democratic Party, I understand that they do not. The President shall draw the attention of anyone who does not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. For this you also have one chapter, which is called the maintenance of the order of the sitting. And this provision of the Rules of Procedure is implemented in cases where this happens. All I did was point out what else was the Chairman's job. The President is not supposed to comment on each Member, and the Chairman's task is not to further undermine the principles of the rule of law every time he makes his statement, the division of power and in some way to incriminate those who carry out certain tasks in that State, even if it is the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions or anyone else who does not do something in accordance with the rule of law. It is in accordance with all the rules that this takes place. No one must have realized that anything was wrong, no one else would have called in a lot about it. Perhaps such a model prisoner, who is unjustly convicted, is a political prisoner, for a long time you have not had in this country to be able to perform a task in the National Assembly and have nothing to report to him. It goes when it's specified, and when it's specified, it comes back. And I suggest that in these statements and comments you, above all, are very careful to keep what you say standing. You have to warn someone if you don't talk like that, and you can't do it yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Of course, I have to say, at some point, you're even a little bit right. However, my assessment of Mr Zorčič's debate was not like that and I wanted to relativise the matter, but good. Mr Trček asked for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u118	The interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is among those 70% of the new Members here. Although I have, of course, followed this rule of procedure, somehow I do not see under which article he has an experienced political cat, I will not say old, more and different rights than everyone else. It seems to me that this meeting is chaired by Mr Tanko, not the President. I do not request a written opinion, but please explain orally to me how you give him other and different rights under the Rule of the Rules of Procedure. He's been abusing a lot of procedural issues for a few hours now, spreading the subject until I don't know where. Please, whether they're the same cottons or I'm gonna leave this meeting and I'm gonna go get ready to work on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I cannot go into how an individual, a Member, estimates that he should act procedurally, but the Rules of Procedure obliges me to give him my word if possible. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u120	I'm sorry, the rules of procedure also allow you to take it away from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u121	Good. Thank you very much for the suggestion. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman. Look, when Mr Tanko here is using procedural maneuvers to buy time because he knows that he will end up with nothing, the SDS is doing something that I, the chairman, would now ask you – at the same time, I would suggest that you and the Vice-Presidents agree a little bit on what we are doing here in the National Assembly. Actually, my friend Tanko is putting in something that we shouldn't even be getting on the bench anymore. For it is that an investment is complemented by some knowledge of something that we do not really have to discuss today. Until the debate, when it began, the investment was over, and we have nothing to fix here now, nor is it a topic that has not been brought to the National Assembly at all. That's why I'm asking you, and now it's entirely out of the actual procedure, if someone answers me, who accepts it at work and shares something on the bench here that's not even in the rules of procedure! Please, if we're dealing with this rather than with the nebulosis we're listening to here! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much. So, I'm informed that you've received an amendment that will not be discussed today because [[...]] Here you go, Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u124	Make it clear what I'm talking about. See, the amendment on the proposal for a second decision to the report on the mandate of the Member. Then we have a second decision: the proposed decision changes by saying that the finding is – wait a minute, we will not vote on the conclusion at all! This can't even come out of the procedure at a meeting of the National Assembly! That's what I'm talking about! By the way, the President initially said that he had allowed something to Mr Tank that he had accepted, which we all know could not go any further through the procedure at all, and that in the meantime some additional and additional proposals were flying to the table, so that we should all get to know and conclude and discuss. It just doesn't work! That's what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u125	Now, if you'll excuse me, the services have informed me that this amendment has not been split. So no one's informed. I inform you that the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to the second decision. The amendment is submitted to a decision that is only made known and unvoted by the National Assembly. This means that it is not possible to vote on the amendment proposing an amendment to this Decision. Furthermore, the content of the amendment is not in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members, which expressly allows the Assembly to either determine the termination of the mandate under Article 9, paragraph 1, and Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Law on Members or decide not to terminate the term of office of a Member under Article 9, paragraph 3, of the Law on Members. In addition, a different decision by the National Assembly is not in line with the Law on Members. Thank you very much. Now, please, Mr Bojan Podkoršek, for the third time, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u126	Now it's gonna work, yeah. Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! I don't want to talk about the past, because I've only been a good Member for two months. When was the first session of the 1st? 8. The 88 Members present, confirmed by 90 mandates, I was firmly convinced that we would work together for the good of Slovenia, of course, so that we would not deal with each other. But I was wrong. Two months and a half every time I enter the National Assembly, I listen to John Janša. Of course, this certainly does not go for the good of Slovenia. All those who were in Brdo yesterday – all the economists in Slovenia were gathered, the president of the Slovenian government also said. I even liked one part of the speech because I like football. He compared us politicians and economists with the football team. That must have occurred to him because we played two games well, our football players. Of course, the President of the Government said how we must be united, work for each other, and even if someone is injured, all players stop and wait for his problem to be resolved. That was yesterday. And today we're talking about a player who already got a red card installed before the game, and of course today we all, his teammates, are pushing him out of the field during the game. I liked listening to Member Desus, who felt that we should talk about the financial problems of Slovenia today. I agree with that. But unfortunately we're talking about things that aren't good for Slovenia. And at the end of the day, let me quote the statement of lawyer Alexander Cheferin, when Patrio's judgment was definitively drafted, that this is in conflict with reasonable logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Comrades and comrades! Today we are cleaning the stain on the integrity of bourgeois parliamentaryism, the stain that this has produced through its own dynamics and its own dynamics. And as has already been seen several times in history, we are also socialists this time, just us who are its greatest critics, the first to put this parliamentary system at risk at the time of its threat. Not because we would honor him as the culmination of democracy and as the end of history. We well know that until true democracy, at least as far as the time was concerned, there was a difference between the regime of the absolute monarchy and the Republic. We only defend the integrity of the National Assembly because it is the only touch of democracy that the working people are still overcoming right now. Comrades and comrades! Janez Janša is the name of one Member, but at the same time this is the name of the politicians who beat after the acquisition of the two-hundred-year history of the labour struggle, by the social state, by the rights of work and by democratic freedoms. It is the face of a farce of bourgeois parliamentaryism sold by urban parties to working people as a democracy. Janez Janša is not an excess, a miracle, an anomaly. We may not like it, but Janez Janša is the truth of our democracy. Two months after we set out for this in the United Left, today, I hope, we will finally decide that one Member will end his term of office. Some will therefore find it easier to lie down for evening rest, since justice has been served, yet others will abuse the influence of their uncles in the background. But the policies that John Janša specialises are those that really shape the lives of the working people. These policies are still here. Who else would want to destroy sweat and the blood of working classes, make richer and poorer? The policy behind the naked name of Janez Janša is essential, is the same as hiding behind the names of Borut Pahor, Alenka Bratušek, Mir Cerar and others. It is a policy that produces misery for the working people. Comrades and comrades! We're leaving Janez Janša in the cold today. It's time to put his policies on ice. These judgments are not handed down by the courts of the city, but by the street, and by the courts of the people are not like the city. They vomit fire and sulphur, and they don't know mercy. This will be felt by all John Janša of this Parliament and by these governments, just as John Janša himself felt. In the United Left, we will vote for the spirit of the law, for the termination of the mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u130	Dear President! At this temple of democracy, I was elected as a Member of Parliament. That's the title I got, and that's the decision I got. And I won't, and I'm asking you to stop this next time, so that anyone in this room can address me as a companion. That's not me. I've never been, and I won't. And I'm asking you to respect what I'm here for, or the function that I've been elected to. I'm a Member of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u132	Thank you very much. You've got me all wrong. With this title, I've pointed out to all the working people who are watching our session in front of the screens today, at the end of my mind, I don't feel like calling you a companion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we will vote on the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I can say right now that I will vote against this decision. Why? John Janša was able to run for office in the National Assembly because he had this right. He was elected. The National Assembly confirmed his mandate because it could not have been otherwise, but also confirmed all the mandates of the other Members and Members. However, since the bill on Members of Parliament and the third indent of Article 9 of Article 9 of the Law on Members states that a Member may not be sentenced to imprisonment for more than 6 months, he shall immediately terminate his term of office. That's how I'm gonna vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Margareta Guček Zakošek has the floor. Mr. Tanko, procedurally. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Now that one hour has passed since I asked for an explanation by the proposer of the point of Dr Mitjo Horvat, President of the Mandate-Volution Commission, I would like to reiterate to you the proposal that the President of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission should remain silent and not explain the dilemma that is opening up in this debate, to clarify these reasons, these legal fines between the opinions of lawyers, among the views of our parliamentary group, which are very similar to those of many opinions, the opinion of the Legal Service and the opinion of this so-called expert group. Mr President, I refer this to you with all responsibility, because we want to explain before the conclusion of the debate, when some Members have been declared, these dilemmas to open their eyes to people, to explain which legal basis is the right one – the one written by the Legal Service and which prevents these procedures from going to the coalition and these satellite parties, or anything else. I am not in favour of the motioner spending all the time then ex cathedra, and finally clarifying this, this has its own debate as a kind of conclusion of the agenda item. It is his duty to answer the questions of Members to the dilemmas. He has a special time to do that, and I suggest you give him that opportunity. Since he doesn't want to take advantage of it, I suggest you ask him to explain. In particular, in order to clarify the fact that you are presidents, all in the order that you held the meeting have prevented the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service for the Slovenian public from being read in the National Assembly, including those that do not know the websites, even those who do not have computers, from listening to this debate in the National Assembly. I believe that there is no valid reason for the President to do so and to prevent the Slovenian public from becoming familiar with a very clear, very specific opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, in no single word, gives a single sentence the basis for the procedure undertaken by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, in any single point, with not a single word. And I understand that that is probably why the President of the Mandate-Election Commission, for the first time, does not want to explain all the dilemmas and, secondly, for these reasons, he did not invite an expert group to the meeting of the Mandate-Election Commission. I suggest that you call on the President of the Commission of Mandate-Voluntary to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm not changing the rhythm of the session now. However, I must say that the public has been extremely well informed about the position of the Legislative and Legal Service. I regularly read newspapers, and I must say that these opinions have been published everywhere, including in the yellow press, on a smaller or broader scale. So I don't think that's the real reason we're supposed to interrupt this meeting today and read this position. As far as the Members are concerned, I believe we know him well and know him. Here you go, Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. Then I propose that you send us copies of these publications in the media, these extensive copies of press releases, as regards the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, to the Members of the National Assembly. For I am among the Members who read a great deal of official material, unofficial, even a yellow matter, but I have not seen, Mr President, a single sentence concerning the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, not a single sentence. It has been widely reported on the opinion of that paid expert group of the National Assembly and not a word of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. I suggest you cancel the session in 10, 15 minutes and share with us, both ignorant and ignorant, the material from the media publications related to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. If this claim of yours has a basis in fact, then it's a joke little to do it. Because it is not, but you will do as your predecessors did when they said, "No, we will not do this." I suggest you use the option, interrupt the session, you can do that, and give us evidence of your claim.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dr. Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u140	Now I'm going to make a procedural proposal. I think that in this previous procedural proposal it was once again a misuse of the procedural proposal, to discuss with the President instead of respecting the Rules of Procedure. Procedural proposals are intended and, in particular, to continue to submit one and the same procedural proposals, and to receive such a reply back where it is absolutely clear that this is the position taken or taken by the President, which is an abuse. I think that such a procedural proposal should be answered with no and not one more procedural proposal for actually just a discussion with the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I don't think I'm crazy smart, but I don't let Mr. Tanko say I'm ignorant and ignorant. In the last two months, I have been reading these things for a month, including those sheets with which Mr Grims waved and which, somehow, give them little weight because they were different and different decisions. Please, if we can't address someone with a companion, you won't be calling me ignorant or ignorant.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u143	Mrs. Eva Irgle, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President-in-Office. I must say that I am also asking you to deliver to us, and immediately, all the articles you mentioned earlier, and tell you which magazines and where the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service has been published. This is not true, at least we do not know it, and I am sure, given that you have made such a vehement, sovereign claim that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service has been practically published in all the newspapers and all the media, including the yellow press, you have said so yourself, then I ask you to share with us through the services that you have at your disposal where this has been published, that we have time to look at it, to check it out. That is why I also require you to order a break, and I expect that during this break we can get all these articles on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u145	Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u146	Mr President, I propose that you give your colleague a warning and yet set up a level of debate. On what I have been saying – these are judgments, not some of them, ladies and gentlemen, but the judgements of the European Court of Human Rights and the judgements of the Slovenian Constitutional Court, which was pointed out by the Slovenian Constitutional Court alone. This is specifically the case of Lykourezos v Greece. This is what I said, that even with the change of constitution, you can't go backward in the opinion of the European Court – not only of the opinion, but of the decision – to change things so that you can throw someone out of Parliament, regardless of what it is. For something known before the elections, it is not possible and is not acceptable and represents, according to the European Court of Justice, a grave violation of human rights – exactly what you are all doing together today – if it is to deprive someone of their mandate. This not only violates the human rights of that person, the right to be loved, which also means the right to exercise the full mandate, but, worse still, the human right to vote, the active right to vote by all those who have given their vote to that person. Then it's about, if you let go, Sadak's judgments against Turkey, this is specifically this one that I showed earlier, then Kavakçi against Turkey, and then Yumak against Turkey. We've found ourselves in a very interesting society, haven't we, in Slovenia because of your work, ladies and gentlemen? However, when it comes to the Slovenian Constitutional Court, it concerns judgments relating to 117/11 of 2011 and then from 2013 the decision of the Constitutional Court Mp-1/12-13 and then 16/1. By the way, if you call it 'pails', ladies and gentlemen – all of these, and some of the others, I can bring the others here, they are mentioned in the position of legal service, which you totally deny. And this is the first time in history since independence, that the opinion of the legal service is completely denied, that it is consciously unwilling even to present it, for the first time in history in such a way, and that it is directly against this opinion, even once again, that it prepares and adopts individual decisions. There's never been a case like this before. And because of this, all those who are still making a fool of themselves when you say that they are "paints" – ladies and gentlemen, these are the judgments of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and of the European Court of Human Rights, which are part of the Slovenian constitutional order. The constitutional order is the Constitution itself and the case law of the Constitutional Court. And those whom you throw under the table in this way prove, in other cases, that, of course, you refer again to the Constitutional Court’s judgment that you have double criteria. By doing this, you prove to yourself what kind of people you are that talking about personal integrity, ethics, and moral speech is empty. What you're really doing, say [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u147	This was of course a controversy, it was not procedural, here Mr Jani Möderndorfer is right. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u148	I'm sorry, I may be stupid, but that really wasn't procedural. I apologize to my colleague Grimes. If he misunderstood me, I'll say A3 formats. I've read most of this, and I'm still saying it's a matter of legal suction. Secondly, this is not the first time in Slovenia, Mr Grims, I'm sorry, you're lying here. In the Constitutional Court, we always have a dozen issues that should be settled by this National Assembly, and I will not list them now. You seem to have forgotten about the deleted ones. I don't teach and I don't talk about ethics and morality and so on. Please round with your eyes to those who do this. And also, you know, I didn't make up that formula for biomass and was there when Patricia was shopping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, you have made a statement in your comment; that the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Services have been published in many media. All I'm asking is that you give us copies of these many publications, because we have no proof that what you've said is actually true. Most of the materials we collected were added to the agenda. I see that none of the coalition MPs have looked at it or looked at it. We demand, however, that the point run properly, that what you have said about extensive publications in such, different and yellow print be delivered to us on the table. So I suggest you stop the session, make sure this material is collected and we get it and look at it. Because I don't think that your claim is true at all. Alenka Bratusek would say, "Absolutely, absolutely not." Therefore, I propose that you get out of this mess, stop the meeting and provide us with evidence of these extensive publications of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm not going to interrupt. Mr Tanko, Mrs Eva Irgle, we will continue the meeting. Then I'll ask the office if they'll collect it later. If they find that there really was nothing here, of course the audience will be affected, and certainly not the Members we are talking about here today, and we are deciding on a problem. And you know matter very well. The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u152	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In my debate on the mandate of a Member, which I will appoint for the first time and for the last time at this time, Janez Janša, I will be able to ask myself and today to ask you a little more questions than the authoritarian answers. Why? Because sometimes the right questions may be a better way to answer each other. And certainly my debate will be well-intentioned, for the benefit of the citizens and citizens of whom I am a Member. The delegation's mandate consists of three steps, we have already identified, the candidacy, the acquisition of the mandate and the execution of the mandate. And at this third step, we stopped, and unfortunately for me, maybe a little too long. And today we're here to finish it. And if, as a Member, I now ask myself what the legislator really wanted to say with Article 9 and with a third paragraph, which we all know very well – it is said that if a Member is sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence of more than 6 months, his term ends. We are not talking about the withdrawal of the mandate. So, did he really want to say that he would stop only if there was a legal conviction before his mandate was approved? Is it true that the time view when someone is convicted is important for all of us here today? Many lawyers speak of the language, systematic, teleological and all other interpretations of this Article. Believe me, I've read a lot of literature, everything that's been delivered to me, lawyers, constitutional judges, and listened to a lot of opinions. Finally, as a citizen, is the logical interpretation of this article only in answer to the question whether a Member who is legally convicted may sit here in the National Assembly? Can we even make decisions about laws that we adopt? As a country, do we want to have such a situation, and what do we tell ourselves, citizens, and the world? Therefore, the mandate of a convicted Member shall not terminate only in the case of a third indent, provided that the Assembly decides otherwise. I believe that it is the right way for the National Assembly to exercise this discretion and decide this, because here we are elected from the people, we are Members of the people, of the people, of the people. And that's why we can decide. We can decide by our conscience, without being criminally responsible for how we vote. We can't forget that. In fact, I wonder whether it is really the only way for the country that we are constantly changing laws and constitutions just to ensure that they are not broken and that we are always looking for ways to get past them. My answer is no, for such a path is disastrous, and please, let's get out of this way. And if we are really talking about equality before the law and human rights, then as a Member, I ask myself one fundamental question: if we confirm this decision today, can we change the law and the constitution? Why? Because then every convicted citizen and prisoner as a prisoner will be able to run, and if the electorate elects him, given that they will know his fact of punishment, then, in fact, everyone has the same right and can run. We don't need to change laws and constitutions. And when I think about these months of this issue, as a naturalist, I think of one example in nature, namely, the situation in question reminds me of a world of nature where scientists say that we will be destroyed by bacteria and viruses as spiritual beings and the most thoughtful of all. Why? Because it's the easiest and fastest to adapt to the environment, and in fact we can't invent any antibiotics and vaccines to prevent it. And really, is this antibiotic a constant change in laws and constitution, I wonder. My answer is no. The solution is only in our civic and collective consciousness and the promise of all citizens and citizens who really want to be, what we want to be, how we want to think and how we want to act. So, personally, I still believe in Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the Constitution that we are a democratic, legal state and that all three branches of power work because if I do not believe it, then I cannot believe in my country. And that is why I believe that each of us, not least as a representative of all the people, and all of us here will vote in our own conscience. I will vote against the decision, of course, and I would vote in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I personally believe that what is happening today in the National Assembly is an extremely grave attack on democracy, a grave attack on the Slovenian Constitution, that it is primarily because part of the legislative branch of government knowingly violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. All of us sitting in this House must be aware, and it would be good to know that the Constitution is above all the laws adopted by this National Assembly. And if we understood that, today this debate would not be because the Constitution is very clear on this issue. This was supported by some constitutional lawyers, constitutional judges, and so on. Among them, Tone Jerovšek wrote: "I warn of article 3 of the Constitution, which states that in Slovenia has authority over the people, which he executes directly and by elections. The National Assembly cannot, by any decision, put an overruled vote in the elections." Also former constitutional lawyer, Dr. Matevž Krivic, wrote, quote: "With us the constitution of the right to be elected does not limit. Janša was legally elected as a Member, and all human electorates must be able to fulfil this constitutional function without interference." Also, the former Constitutional Judge, Dr. Janez Čebulj, wrote, quote: "Because the National Assembly has already confirmed Janša's mandate, in my opinion there is no legal basis for the withdrawal of the approved mandate." Also, Dr. Saša Zagorc, a constitutional lawyer, wrote: "I am sure that no one can prevent the elected Member from performing the function." The case law of the European Court of Human Rights also testifies to this, he says. And here we have the legal opinion of Dr. Šturma: "The withdrawal of the post-election post and the confirmation of the mandate under Article 9 of the Law on Members would constitute a grave abuse of the law and the constitution, which does not provide for such withdrawal. 82. Article 82 of the Constitution states that the law specifies who cannot be elected as a Member and no law condemns any offence and no penalty shall be considered as grounds for the impossibility of an election." The honourable Members and Members, from all these statements by constitutional lawyers, the Constitutional Judges and so on, it is clear that there is no basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for Janez Janša to withdraw his mandate. Therefore, I personally assess that this is a premeditated act of those who want to bring down Slovenian democracy in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On August 1, 2014, at the 1st meeting of the National Assembly, we also received the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia during the material, and I must say that I was extremely happy when I held it in my hands. Then it occurred to me that it might be appropriate for any newborn to have it at birth. Why? Because this is our highest legal act, which should receive one special, exceptional respect. And what's going on today? The topic we are talking about today, however, has an unacceptable impact on this constitution and on the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. It is more than obvious that your goal today is only one, and this is to eliminate the political opponent, and at all costs. There is no other legal reason for the removal of John Janša’s mandate. Article 3 of the Constitution states that in Slovenia, people, citizens and citizens exercise their authority directly and through elections. The people, the electorates, who were familiar with the circumstances of John Janša before the elections and, nevertheless, elected in an extremely large number. So John Janša had the right to run, he was elected, and it is right that he also has the right to exercise this mandate. And, however, politics, we do not have the right of Members in a democratic country to restrict this right of voters, both the right of the electorate, and the right of the MP who has been elected. This is also confirmed by the many statements made by lawyers that we have heard so much today. And I will read from one of Dr Terska: "As long as the legal regime is such that passive electoral law is not legally restricted due to a criminal conviction or the sentence of imprisonment, it is also not permissible to restrict a person who was allowed to run for election and successfully run for office and actually exercise the status of a democratic human elector. It would violate not only his passive electoral rights but also the active electoral rights of his constituents." It is true that you have a constitutional right in this National Assembly today, but remember that 51% of all voters were elected in July, and that all who have voting rights today may not agree with you here today. However, we decide today on behalf of citizens, of all citizens, so however, before you decide how you vote, be aware that the will of the majority you have in the National Assembly is not necessarily the same as that of most citizens, and that Members do not have the right to restrict the electoral rights of citizens. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! There has been a lot of talk today about the legal basis, a lot has been said, of course, about the different opinions, and the fact is that opinions are different, legal opinions from legal experts. And if, in fact, the legal basis for John Janša’s withdrawal of the mandate were to apply, then I think that the President of the National Assembly, Dr Brglez, would simply write a finding or finding decision and do so. Because it is not, you create a show, you create a theater and you create a voting ground for it, a quasi-legal basis on which the President of the National Assembly will then sign a finding on this. Although two and a half months ago, we actually voted that Janez Janša had a mandate. But now you've changed your mind, and now you've come to the point that maybe that wouldn't be good. As a result, the Commission has been set up, and this has been the case several times on a committee that examines mandate issues and, of course, this has actually been the case. There is no legal basis, and many lawyers who have already been listed today, Zagorec, Onion, Storm and so on, says: do so on the basis of law, on the basis of law. But you don't have this legal basis, so now you're creating it with all your responsibility. With all responsibility, including those who will only sign the conclusions. I believe that you will be able to do this very easily, with a calm hand, just as some master's works are signed, but of course you will also have a slightly more shaking hand. However, you know, this is two-faced, and I think that the National Assembly should decide solely on the basis of the law and the law on the mandate of a Member. I believe that actions must be moral, that they must be ethical and, above all, must be legally based and must be based on the law, the law which is in accordance with international standards, the law which is in accordance with the Constitution, and the law which is in conformity with the judgments of the courts which speak of violations of human rights, and it is not. And that's why you don't know what happens next. Because, unfortunately, we live in a country where 25 years ago, and even more than 60 and 70 years ago, it worked on the basis of revolutionary law, and I am afraid and I hope that you do not now introduce such a right into the National Assembly when something seems to someone and when there is no legal basis. Act on the basis of the law. You do not have this today, so today we have this meeting and this vote, which is of course wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask you to get someone of the coalition types or a candidate of the agenda item to explain to us, after all these discussions, whether it is ethical to process an act in the National Assembly which, according to all lawyers, including those of the expert group, does not have a basis in the constitution and law. This is what I propose to ensure, because, after the elections on 13 July, there have been many debates on the new culture, ethics in politics and everything possible, respect for the principles of the rule of law and respect for the institutions of the rule of law. Today we have a decision before us, which is exclusively written in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, in both opinions, in the opinions of a number of lawyers, including in the opinion of the expert group, that there are no constitutional grounds for deciding and there are no legal bases. So, I propose that, Mr President, you provide someone in this National Assembly from the coalition and advocates of this execution to explain whether it is ethical or unethical, whether it is part of a new political culture or whether it is the continuation of an old political culture before 1990. I think you have a responsibility to ensure that. We have already called on the proposer of the point by Dr Mitjo Horvat, President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, to explain or explain to Members the dilemmas we are facing today at least five times today. The President of the National Assembly, as well as the other presidents, have made the proposals that we have referred to you to provide the right conditions for us and for the Slovenian public, also to present this to them, as the agenda item, has clearly rejected. Now, in essence, there remains the last possibility, Mr President, that someone among this elite belonging to her would explain whether it is ethical for the National Assembly to process a decision, which everyone has found, that there is no basis in the constitution, that there is no basis in any law and that the procedure — and I have warned you about it — runs contrary to the business arrangements we have in the National Assembly. Please call someone who feels called to answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I will go forward with the debate, of course, but I think that in the end, Dr Mitja Horvat, as the fifth debater, will answer. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Given that I really don't have any time for a serious discussion, I would still take advantage of these few more seconds and say only that in the explanation of the Group of Members, I have also expressed my position and I have been clear and clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Chairman. We have been here for several hours listening to a debate that was not really a debate, but more obvious and in fact a kind of sadness over injustice and all that is happening. However, I cannot go beyond the fact that I started when I discussed the presentation of positions, and I have said the following, what is most important to me. You know, here the leader of the largest opposition group is referring the question to the chairman – whoever he is, he would probably address the same question – asking him whether it is ethical and moral and so on. Look, buddy Tanko, now I'm going to ask you: Is it ethical and moral that the SDS party has nominated a candidate who has been convicted? Is this ethical, moral, healthy and normal for this Slovenian society?Oh, my God! No, it's the answer, because I won't wait for your answer. And just because it's not normal, we came into a trap that can't be unrolled. We look at it legally, we look at it, I'll say, in a way human, and of course we get involved where we don't have to. But if you ask 90% of the Slovenians, that is essentially more than 6,000 Slovenians or voters to be more precise, they think that those who are legally convicted and in prison cannot be a representative of the people in the National Assembly. I don't see any particular story here. Of course, another is how to make this happen now, so that this thing will be done as it should be. The fact is, after today's session, the Government will have to do everything necessary to bring at least three laws into this national assembly, including the electoral law that your young colleague spoke about when she discusses it and shows and waves with the constitution. The election law needs to be changed. I agree with you completely. But be so honest and say out loud to the Slovenian public who listens to you, whether someone 20 years ago thought the prisoner would go to the polls and be elected! Nobody, nobody, and that's what we're talking about! [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Beznik, when you get to your turn, otherwise you've already had your time, so just give it a rest. And what's even more important than that, of course, is that we all have to have one face together when we get out of this national assembly. Look, that's where you put the board and write "political prisoner." Dearly beloved, your colleague Janez Janša will need a few miles and miles to become a political prisoner. He was legally convicted, not politically. We live in a democratic country for which he has also fought, and he has also participated in the conquest. Did he want the prisoners to be in the National Assembly? I don't believe I would have discussed this 20 years ago. Many feel ashamed that today he must explain this propagandism that took place in the National Assembly. But it did. And what's gonna happen? Today we will again have a manifestation before the National Assembly as to how injustice is done. But someone organized this politically, because we all know that. We don't have to fool around. And that's why it's time to go all the way, and stop this exercise you've been doing for hours. Look at how long we've been down, out of plan. I don't know when we were last in the National Assembly like this. It's 38 minutes. This is once again a new attempt at maneuver, Comrade Tanka, which you have enjoyed in the National Assembly. That is why, of course, I cannot support such exercises here, and I believe that most Slovenians and Slovenes will understand that. Another is what the Constitutional Court will decide or any other courts in our country, depending on where and where they will come from. Surely we all know now that legislation will have to be amended, because it seems that we have become truly original in the Slovenian space, to find and seek every hole in order to remain in power or at least in political presence. And you know who I'm thinking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I suggest that you look at the files of the National Assembly and tell Mr Möderndorfer that the last such debate was in which the opposition proved that it was right, the real estate law proposed by the government of Alenka Bratušek. By morning, we were fighting to turn this thing down, but it couldn't be done. We are also fighting today on the same grounds, with the same legal bases, Mr President. You can tell that to Mr. Möderndorfer. You have a coworker with you, and you can check that out, and that stands. But when he talks about who is fighting so unknowingly for what, let him look only a little to the right, at a colleague who abused the government procedure, ignoring all warnings from the current coalition, former coalition partners, the opposition to infiltrate [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, it's a process, because I'm saying it. That's an important question. And even the KPK tripped on it. And, ma'am, since she knew what she was writing there, she also abused the fact that she didn't pick up the mail. I propose, Mr President, if you are asking any questions about asking the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and allowing it to present its two legal opinions, which it has written exclusively, specifically for this case. I don't understand why all the presidents, all the coalition partners and all the satellites you support are defending themselves so much that the Legislative and Legal Service can read or at least present its two opinions related to this item on the agenda. Perhaps it is clear to all the Slovenian public, Mr President, that something is seriously wrong with the procedure you are conducting in the National Assembly. I guess we're all clear. Because if it were different from what I'm saying, the coalition and the satellites that support it would be happy to take the process proposal and allow the Legal and Legislative Service to present this position. By preventing these readings from happening to us Members of Parliament. Otherwise, it is also necessary to tell my colleague Möderndorfer that a procedural question is addressed to the President. You can't address a procedural question to anyone else, you can only refer to the chairman who holds the meeting, and the chairman decides either as you have decided to prevent the Slovenian public from being informed or otherwise. I think it would be more arbitrary for the opposition and the public to take these procedural proposals into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u168	Thank you. These were not procedural questions. Now there's a lot of demands here. I would demand that the Rules of Procedure Commission, based on today's magnetogram, go over all the so-called procedural issues and views that have been really procedural, that are not, that we get it in the shortest possible time, and that we stop, I will now be non-academic, that way screw up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u169	Good. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u170	President-in-Office, see, colleague Tanko has already asked you several times to the opinion of the ZPS to present it publicly here in some way or to the ZPS or to someone reading it and so on. You may have conspired and pleaded when you said that it was in the I don't know which newspapers, but the fact is, it's in Udis and everyone can see it and read it on the website. The website of the National Assembly is public and accessible to all citizens and citizens. But if Mr Tanko wants anyone else to read it extra from his colleagues, he can print it, and he will read it. However, the fact is that public publications have reported on this, the electronic media has reported a great deal on these opinions, so I propose that this discussion and misleading be discontinued as chairman. However, as far as the archives are concerned, all I have to say is that there is also a meeting in the archives of the National Assembly, which was extremely long, as far as the ZUJF is concerned, and the Constitutional Court has made a very clear decision. And the respect of the ZPS on your part was null at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. I'm going to be brief because I have less time left and I'm going to put my points in a few points. First of all, with regard to moderation. This meeting was re-emerged because you again allowed the Slovenian Democratic Party, the President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, to take advantage of all the rules in force in this house, and I am here to join the call of Comrade Trčko, and I expect that in the future the moderation will be significantly tougher, sharper and principled than it was today. Second, Janez Janša is not a political prisoner, as it says. He's a prison politician. John Janša was not convicted of political delinquency. John Janša was convicted of corruption. For corruption. Just like Berlusconi and Sanader, and there's nothing better about it than they are, there's a simple policy in prison. And please stop manipulating this family of political prisoners. Thirdly, every day, every hour, every minute and every second that we spend talking about a political prisoner who is not, is a lost opportunity to talk about the real problems that have led us to be elected to this national assembly. About why we still have 15% or 137 thousand apartments in Slovenia empty, but at the same time for generations in the "hotel mom" and on the road. Why it is still virtually impossible to get a job in Slovenia when you graduate from college, why we still have 120 000 applicants at the employment agency, why 40% of pensioners still live below the poverty line. We miss it all while we talk about the family of a political prisoner who isn't. In addition to the fact that the law is clear, that is to say that the Member ceases his mandate when he has a mandate and is sentenced to imprisonment for more than 6 months, that is to say, his term ends. That is why, in the United Left today, we will clearly vote in favour of the end of this mandate and, above all, to end this agony, which we have been accompanying for two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think you are also obliged to warn which debater, because he cites incorrect statements. In the Public Finance Balance Act, so-called ZUJF, two indents of the whole law relating to privileged pensioners have been repealed, I think. All the other aides and marriages could easily, if so bad, have been abolished by the government of Alenka Bratušek, who took over the government after John Janša. We could have done anything, and nothing was done of this. We would love to, Mr. Chairman. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u175	Of course, that wasn't procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u176	Of course it is. That's what I've addressed to you. Mr President, I propose that you put on the agenda of tomorrow's emergency meeting a budget rebalance for this year to include a proposal for laws or economic measures, a proposal to meet empty dwellings, a proposal to verify incentives for economic development, economic growth and businesses and so on. I suggest that we do not now discuss minor matters in the National Assembly. I suggest you pass this on to Prime Minister Mir Cerar and we come back tomorrow, come back and discuss these urgent matters in the National Assembly. And that you, as chairman, also refer to the coalition's proposal to stop doing business with things that do not have a constitutional or legal basis. This item is such and has been placed on the agenda by the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, a member of the lead party in the coalition. Not now to tell us we're talking about something. We would be happy to suggest other things, including what amendments we have made, and what other things we have done, but there is no such thing! For three months you only deal with the mandate of Janez Janša, coalition and satellites. And, Mr President, I think this very seriously, I propose that you draw up a letter to the Government immediately after the conclusion of this meeting, proposing all the necessary measures necessary to ensure that the economic crisis is halted to trigger the process of new development, jobs, jobs and so on. That's what I suggest you do. So you will please all those in and around the coalition to start discussing the content points, not something that has neither tail nor head and is not based on any legal basis. Once again, I propose that the President of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission respond to the dilemmas raised at this point in order to invite him to respond. For a while there are some parliamentary groups, and I propose that answers to the dilemmas raised first, but not to discuss here from the left, from the right, leave the debate somewhere, I don't know where, and then ask us, opposition parties, everything else, such as the agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u177	Mr. Tanko, I left you a little longer because the clock didn't work, but well, I don't think there will be such a tragedy. I think the Members of the Miroslav Cerar Party are here and will convey these wishes to their President, so that this will be realized. I now give the floor to Dr. Milan Brglez, who will probably respond to any of these dilemmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. The importance of this point is that I leave what I am normally, and I do not comment on what I do not need to comment on, but this time it is necessary to clearly define myself. I will start at that point in this National Assembly, in the speech by John John Janša on August 25, 2014 at the 1st item of the agenda, this is when we consider the Proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the beginning. More or less, I will take the whole first part, or first paragraph, that he then purposed, even to show how to quote in full, in no way but in part and in the way that it seems to anyone and to whom it fits. What he originally set up said, "If we had a favorable time, which is normal for elections in the countries of parliamentary democracy," and at the same time found that we do not live in such a time – "... and that I am speaking to you today is one of the proofs of this." He went on to say, "I don't think it's ever happened that in Parliament on the day that the Prime Minister is elected, on behalf of the opposition, a prisoner would speak." Those are his words. Subsequent [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's not a problem. He went on to the part that pointed to the unjust judgment that weighs him down, and he pointed out that we must read the judgment, is legal, has its consequences. And finally, as he essentially concludes the whole thing, more or less, because there are two parts, you come to say, "In short, we're at some extreme point of injustice, and I, who stands here today for a pay phone, am living proof of it." What I would like to point out is that I absolutely agree with the first part of what has been said. What has been said leads to the result that the prisoner may be a Member at the same time. It's not acceptable, it's not normal, it has nothing to do with the rule of law. Any result where the prisoner is not a Member at the same time is, in fact, acceptable for the work of this National Assembly. The question is, of course, which of these results is one that the National Assembly can in one way or another help to achieve, when it can take political responsibility for the matter, what it does. Of course, Members, by their decision-making, always take political responsibility. Why is he unacceptable? It is unacceptable because it is absolutely politically unsustainable. The second thing is that positive law is the worst of possible results. Speaking of the nature of things, these two things don't go together. It cannot be taken into account that we are talking about the rule of law so that the prisoner could be a Member at the same time. At the same time, it is the situation that allowed abuse or exaggeration to take place in this direction. We are speaking on one side, as has been said, of a political prisoner. In fact, it is a Member in prison or a Prison Policy, however we want to define this matter, which not only goes to this Parliament, but has also participated in demonstrations against the third branch of power. That's something okay, that's part of it. [[...]] It's a symbolic thing that goes even further. The symbol is so far away that the same Member applies for a diplomatic passport. That is all we need to make this Parliament represent in fact in some international delegation. But I'm talking about a symbolic matter. However, it is also important, of course, that the matter, which is important for the constitution of this National Assembly, is that the KNOVS, which is the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, cannot be constituted because it is always appointed, because it does not have the 46 votes it actually needs. However I look at this matter, it does not seem appropriate, and there is a situation which is politically and also legally insufferable for us to talk about the true existence of the rule of law. Therefore, there are actually three solutions that could lead us out of this, in that it is necessary to realize that there is no one who would be absolutely legally indisputable. Anyone can also be legally challenged, so we must take responsibility. The first is that which is proposed, which comes with the rejection of this proposal, these exceptions, which we allow. Other makes it possible [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Finally, Dr. Mitja Horvat, the proposer. Procedurally, Mr. Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u180	Thank you very much. As Vice-President of this House, I think you are obliged to defend the reputation of this assembly. In fact, if the President of Parliament in this place is teaching Members how to correctly quote the words spoken in this National Assembly, then he has consciously silenced the key sentence when he explained the words he himself wanted for his purpose, as Machiavelli – The goal is to devote the means to which he likes to rely many times, but there is a violation of a democratic standard of normal quoting – even worse if it comes from the mouth of someone who is playing with an academic title and who comes from college and has excused, among other things, another master who would not, of course, be a normal professor. Look, behind the phrase that Mr. Brglez referred to as an explanation, when we all wonder that it is unusual and contrary to some general standards, if the prisoner speaks here in the National Assembly, the president of the SDS and the leader of the opposition gave another sentence that is essential for understanding these words, and that is, "But it is not a problem as a result, but a problem as a result." And that, Mr President, is why you have been silent in this way to justify the purpose you wanted to make with those words, and it is not correct, especially by the President of Parliament, the first of the same, to abuse the words of the Member for his own political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u181	It wasn't an abuse. First of all, it wasn't an abuse. I said that the two parts were composed and that the other part was the part that related to this, to the judgment itself, I took this part. I agree that I could have picked him up better. I agree here. But I mentioned the whole thing, and I didn't start on the first part or the second part. Since it is simply impossible to quote purely everything, only those matters are cited, but I agree that this part further clarifies that complaint about the unjust judgment, but this unjust judgment in this national assembly, as I have already explained, cannot be discussed because it is the functioning of the third branch or that branch of authority that we do not have such control over. So this explanation is only an answer to what I consider to be procedural. Comrade Tanko, did you want procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Earlier in the debate, you mentioned that it was not appropriate for anyone to protest against the third branch of government. Where is this forbidden? You are the President of the National Assembly, you are teaching us about the proper use of the Rules of Procedure, and I now ask you as President of the National Assembly where it is forbidden that, for example, a Member protest against the third branch of the Authority. By what provision of the Constitution, any law or other act is this prohibited or prohibited? It's not like that. Secondly, Mr President, in your debate, you pointed out that the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission was not set up because we proposed it to Janez Janša. That's not why. Because Janez Janša, like all of us, has until now a full mandate, like all members of the National Assembly. And I have repeatedly asked you to write down the restrictions that are written in the constitution or in the laws so that no one can be proposed to the Security Intelligence Supervisory Committee. Not once, not in any of your calls. And now you can report to Janez Janša and the Slovenian Democratic Party, who is proposing this proposal so that we do not have a committee to oversee security intelligence services. You are the problem – the President, the President of the National Assembly and the coalition majority, which is on an unknown basis, without the application of constitutional or legal provisions, decided not to support this proposal of the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission. That's your decision. And I think that this is cynicism, cynicism, Mr President, that you have accused Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party of not being set up. I propose to you as President and as President of the National Assembly that you are precise in your performances and explanations. You may even have to be more than we are here. And I've warned you both about both things. As regards the protests, there are no restrictions on the fact that you rejected the composition of the Security Intelligence Commission, but the full burden is on the one who collected the proposals because he did not write any restriction despite the call, and on those who decided and decided to do so without taking any basis or decision into account on any basis of the Constitution or laws. So follow the advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u183	Procedural issues are not for anyone to impose on him what he has to do or to be able to engage in substantive discussions. You have used this to debate, even though your time for discussion has actually run out. I find that this was not a procedural question and I do not take it as a procedural question and that is why I will not answer it. Now, my friend Jurša has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. In view of today's experience and the launch of the mandate, I will propose a procedural question, namely: Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by introducing a red card. In fact, what is said today under the cover of procedural procedure goes beyond all limits. I think that the rules of procedure should specify that each individual should initially make a proposal for a procedural matter. Of course, the following explanation is given. In the pit, most of them, both on the one hand and on the other, even forget to say what a procedural question is. To explain the introduction of the red card. In view of the fact that we have also heard about football games today, there are yellow and red charts and I would suggest that the President has a red card and that someone who has not done something in accordance with the Rules of Procedure should be excluded from this game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u185	I will certainly answer this procedurally first before I give anyone another word. Please. What will have to be done in this regard will have to be brought before the Rules of Procedure Commission in order to properly address the issue of procedural issues and, in essence, the accumulation of procedural issues. I understand one procedural issue and another that is completely substantively separate, but not substantively separate from procedural issues, and in fact it is simply a matter of buying time and abusing the process itself for something else. So I agree here. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On behalf of the electorate, I ask where Ambassador Janez Janša is today because we have not heard him apologize for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u187	I will certainly answer this procedural question first as the chairman, who gives the floor to anyone, and then I will give you a procedural question. My answer is that I do not know, but it is not among those who have apologized in any way, but attending the sitting itself is not really proof of anything. So there's nothing to conclude from that. My friend Beznik. I'd like you to start by telling me what's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u188	Look, I have a procedural proposal regarding your statement when you quoted colleague Janez Janša, where you literally used his words here from the National Assembly and didn't say the point. Janez Janša first talked about the consequences, so why is he here as a prisoner and, of course, at the second stage he said the essence [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u189	It's a replica, it's not procedural. Please state procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u190	That is exactly what I am trying to tell you to use as chairman of the Assembly of State words and to create the essence of those speeches by Members and Members who are crucial. First, John Janša spoke about the causes. The causes were, however, the following at the first point. First of all, John Janša was in an unfair trial that we all know well. First, he came to the county court, not the county court, with an indictment. Second, the prosecutor, for the first time, was involved with the wife of someone who was in the State Security Service. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u191	I'm asking you what's procedural here. I'm asking you what's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u192	I'm talking about the reasons why Janez Janša is still a Member. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u193	I'm asking you what's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u194	The procedural proposal is that, when you deceive the Slovenian public, citizens and citizens, you abstain primarily as the first of the same because I believe that this is unsustainable for you as President of the National Assembly. I have more suggestions like this when you need to abstain. When you also explain the so-called natural law, I think that Socrates, Aristotle and Tomaž Aquinas, who were holders of natural law, would be disgusted with your words and turn to their graves. You were talking about revolutionary law, that's not even true of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u195	What's procedural here, given what's been going on?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u196	Once again, I warn you, this is your conduct as chairman of the National Assembly, because you are using your words as President of the National Assembly and you are vilifying the statements of Members and Members. This is what my procedural proposal is for you to refrain from doing so and to act in accordance with certain standards, and in particular with the ethical principles on which you have many excuses.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u197	Procedurally, Comrade Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear President, my procedural proposal is that you, with all the authority you have and which you are likely to gain, terminate this meeting until the time when this issue, which we are discussing today, will be legally indisputable. Now, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will give an explanation. In short, the proposal is to suspend this meeting until all solutions are legally incontrovertible on this issue. In the speech you gave, I quote you now, you said that "there is no legally indisputable solution" in this connection, and then you started to explain the first solution, the second solution, and then you didn't come up with all three solutions. I think these three solutions are known. I propose that you ensure that this National Assembly adopts legally indisputable solutions. Dear President, this is in your hands. This decision is the one that will give this national assembly a greater value and value to this country, so that we can start making decisions in this national assembly that are legally indisputable. Today, not only have you come to realize this, but we also find that solutions are not incontrovertible, but many opinions prove this. And for this reason, I urge you not to make decisions that are not legally indisputable. This will have long-term implications for the functioning of the National Assembly. You have the opportunity, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to do so. You have a chance. I think it's the '70s and some other article, maybe paragraph 76. Do it! Make sure that we accept legally indisputable solutions in this national assembly, because you cannot accept well-known solutions that are not legal, which are not in accordance with the Constitution. This would be the precedent of this national assembly to accept some solutions that may be contrary to the Constitution. By the way, the Law-Legal Service cannot say that something is contrary to the Constitution, but it can only warn that because the Constitutional Court decides what is not in accordance with the Constitution. Once again, I appeal to you, Madam President, to ensure this, and therefore to suspend this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u199	Your procedural proposal is not accepted. The speaker has the floor. Please from the bench, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'd rather, and I'd love to. It's a sample example, as I've said several times, not a socialist reflex. We couldn't hide for nothing or avoid the question. Perhaps, in some way, the subject of today's debate and decision-making is also my reason for inclusion in political life, but it is not crucial. It is only connected in this way that I have understood from your debate today that it is necessary to decide which side we are on. That's not my political principle. My basic political principle is, I hope I've already expressed it that you've already met him, cooperation. It's not always easy to work together. There is no cooperation, I absolutely agree with my fellow Members. But it is not about which opinion will win, nor how many opinions need to be put on one side of the scale to outweigh the other. I have never debated this way, and I have certainly not led this matter to this day, that it must reach a precise objective. As you know, and as I stated in the initial report, the question was raised at the first meeting, but the more I think about it, the more I cannot remember who was the first to ask this question. Certainly not me, it's certainly not a reflex. This question was raised by my conduct already deep in May, deep back before we went to the elections before we came to the National Assembly. And many prominent lawyers have already answered that question when it did not. You're asking me how I'm arguing, and I'm commenting on how I'm going to present my opinions. Why, if you claim that this issue should not be at all – and you know that I supported your proposal to vote on it in the National Assembly – if there is no legal basis, this question has already been raised in the first half of this year? The opinion of legal experts has not been ordered, so of course forget all the grounds you are talking about. In particular, it is not a question of mercenaries, and at the beginning I apologized to all those involved, because they are experiencing criticism, incriminating words, insulting words, in this regard I have also asked you at the last meeting of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission to find a decent, appropriate way for you to apologize to all those who have been so offensively accused. I leave it to you, who, of course, advocate values in this society, as well as our client. We guaranteed independence. No one pressured the Law-Legal Service to change its mind. The Legislative and Legal Service has been given the opportunity to consider this issue, as well as a group of legal experts, in the light of what we discussed on the Mandate-Election Commission, so that each of the political parties, which is one of us, proposes their own expert and, of course, could have a debate. Instead of discussing it, you want me to explain to you today and answer all the legal dilemmas concerning the legal opinions that have been put forward for this meeting. Instead of taking advantage of the time we had for this at the Mandate-Electorial Commission, we preferred to talk about the charges, we preferred to conduct the meeting in the way we do today in the National Assembly instead of talking about the content. I am very pleased with these procedural proposals and, of course, I will be ready again and I will take the time to discuss the content before us. At the 1st urgent meeting, questions were raised on the basis of what was happening at the 1st meeting, when we were faced with the issue of the confirmation of the mandate, and once again, I did not express them, I did not lead them in this direction, it was not a socialistic reflection and I ask you kindly to remove this from your vocabulary, especially when it comes to me and when it comes to our client. The questions were raised — as they are today — and I have taken them seriously and, of course, within the framework of what is possible, sometimes there is less time to do what is possible. So, if dilemmas arise, as they are today before this national assembly, I also wanted to eliminate these legal dilemmas throughout this time and, of course, have again and again answered the questions that we are not looking for a legal opinion that is acceptable to us, but that we are looking for a legal opinion in order to obtain the basis for qualified decision-making, to which I have also asked you in my additional explanation. For qualified decision-making, of course, it is necessary to have all aspects, and as has already been said, I have already answered this question – it is not mine. It is mine to run the Mandate-Election Commission, but it is not mine to judge and to do the work performed by experts, everyone in their field, and the work done by the Law-Legal Service, which I hope we will not abuse because we have it here for legislative procedures. It is true that we use them for other issues, even in this case, and I am deeply grateful that they have made an effort and that they have, of course, presented their position on this, once again, a sample case. On the basis of our call whether, in the light of the questions raised at the 1st urgent meeting — not as a compulsion, still independent — we might consider and perhaps come to any other decisions, opinions, arguments, we have found that we have been informed, as you correctly note that the Law Enforcement Service insists on its position, in its arguments, what we respect. As we respect, of course, all the respected experts who have given their views on this in any combination, I reiterate, a sample case. There's nothing we can do, nothing we can really rely on. This issue has been and remains a matter that we must resolve in the National Assembly. If it wasn't necessary, I made sure that all this time I hadn't talked about John John Janš's mandate. I had before me how to deal with any of the other 89 Members, as far as we are in the National Assembly. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I hope that at this point I have answered you why it is not mine to explain legal opinions. It was mine to provide them for Members to ensure a debate on these issues, which was not exploited, so, of course, we also have this issue before us, which I hope we can put it on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u201	Comrade Tanka, procedurally, but first tell me what's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u202	Dear President! I will turn to you about understanding the role of the proposer of the agenda item. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he shall defend the agenda of the person who proposes it. First-signed or anyone else. In this case, the proposer of the item, who also took additional time to present the position of the Mandate-Volution Commission and then also announced the time for discussion, the President of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat. The proposer of the point shall, in any event, be required to answer any dilemmas or questions arising from the examination of the individual point. This is his task, so he is a proposalr and therefore has special time and the opportunity to be involved at any time in the debate and to explain these matters. Dr Mitja Horvat's proposal was not included during the session, except for a minute and five seconds, which he spent defending himself not to speak. At the end of the point, he also did not respond to any particular dilemma that was set and opened at this point in the agenda. Why, then, do the proponents propose a reading point in the National Assembly if they do not defend, defend, explain, give reasons? I have proposed several times in this section, or at this point in the agenda, that the applicant explain or tell the differences between one proposal and another, he says the legal basis for one or the other issue to point out that we see what his position is because he is processing the point. It can't be set up here on some imaginary matter, but it has to be clarified. And, Madam President, even now, at the end of the discussion of this point, there is not a single explanation as to whether the matter is constitutional or not, whether the elephants in the law or not, or whether all the opinions which are legally incorrect are obtained. The only thing that is clear to everyone in this National Assembly is that you will process the point until the vote. That's the only thing that was clear. I suggest you end this agony because you have not provided anything at this point in the agenda, and you will get some solutions that will be constitutionally correct, legally correct and commercially correct. This item on the agenda, I warned you at the beginning, does not meet any of this, and neither has the proposer advocated and explained any of these things. In short, the matter remained in the air.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u203	First, the applicant shall not be obliged to do anything, but may, at his own discretion, discuss it in accordance with paragraph 4 of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure. This concludes the general debate and brings us to the debate on the amendment tabled to the first proposal for a decision. Procedural? First, please tell me what is procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to ask a procedural question. Let me say that we have already asked the President of the Commission on a number of occasions on the mandate of the Commission on the basis of details concerning the legal group set up to make an opinion on the mandate of Janez Janša. I must say that we have not yet received a single answer to the questions specifically asked. Mr President, I ask, but I really demand that you answer the following questions from the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. On what civil law basis or on a legal basis did the persons mentioned above, i.e. those who performed this task in relation to the professional legal commission, carry out their work on this legal opinion and also prepare it? Then I ask the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission to answer the following question. When was the legal basis or order concluded, and when did the work to prepare the opinion begin? Third question. What were the instructions regarding the preparation of the opinion, and what material was attached? And the final question. What is the payment, or will they receive, of this legal opinion by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or by any other State authority? Dear President, before you interrupt me, we have not yet received an answer to any of these questions. On 3 October, we asked in writing for Mr President-in-Office of the Commission to explain and answer these clearly asked questions, but none of this has happened, and also now, in the final address, forgive us, but to the entirely no question answered by the President-in-Office of the Commission. And please, Mr President, ask him to explain and answer these questions. That's the least we can expect. Please. And I am not giving up on this, because I will once again put a procedural request to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u205	First, let me answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u206	Because we're expecting these answers, and I really don't know how long it's been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u207	During the proceedings at the beginning, I explained how this matter was handled. And that was when I made it clear that this was based on the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, that the matter had been formed and that the answers would be received in writing. Now the proposer doesn't even have time to answer anything. But if you keep asking the same question over and over again, I will ignore your procedural proposal. I won't allow a procedural issue at all. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You said we'd get written answers to these questions. But we're deciding today. Are you making fun of us? We've already asked these questions a month and a half ago, and we don't get an answer. I mean, you're really making fun of us. I'm asking you to stop this session and get these answers. Please. Thank you. And not after it's all over, but now we want those answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u209	The answer to this question is irrelevant to the decision-making process, that is [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait. Can I say to the end? I find the answer to this question irrelevant. I have said the essential part and that you will be informed in writing what these civil relations are like in this regard. This cannot in any way affect the opinion itself, because the debate has already shown the views either of individual Members or of individual groups on this issue. And the President of the Mandate-Election Commission has made clear enough what is the basis of the decision we have today. Procedurally, Comrade Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. And then there's one thing that the proponent should answer, because he's a professor teaching at Law School. But this is the next question. You're all talking about opinions. What I was talking about is not opinions, these are the caselaws of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and of the European Court of Human Rights. And I ask you, Mr President, to explain, as a professor of law, what is the difference between an opinion and the difference between a case-law of the Constitutional Court, which clearly states that the right to exercise the mandate is an integral part of the right referred to in Article 43 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the right to be loved. And what it means, if the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights states that it is that someone has been relieved of the place to which he was elected, because of the circumstances that have been known before, I quote: "That had infringe the soul and power of the electored who had been led him into office," in a free translation, that means a grave violation of the human rights of the people who elected him to office. What thing, Mr. Law Professor, commits – the opinion of lawyers or the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, the case of the Constitutional Court and the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights? For in this House, when we do not change the Constitution, we are all unconditionally and first bound by the legal order, the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and binding acts of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u211	First of all, you'll get your word for the next procedural. First, I find that this was not a procedural issue. Procedural questions are addressed to me, not to anyone else. [[advertising from the hall]] I said procedural questions are addressed to me, not to anyone else. Second of all, even if I said he could answer, he can't because time is up. I will not order a lengthy debate, that is a fact. So we are moving on to the next procedural one Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has because it was before you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u212	Your Honor! After what we heard and after what Irgle asked and, of course, did not get an answer, I rightly ask myself whether we are talking about a credible document. We're all familiar with public procurement. The National Assembly also needs to follow suit. How, then, can you offer a document that is not subject to any of the conditions for public procurement? We don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, But, look, we need this. We can't talk, you can't say that the basis is a document that we don't even know if it's credible. And one more thing. If the case is not credible, then this case is much more problematic than, excuse me, the judgment of John Janša based on indications, because we do not have any answers here. Specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u213	I must now conclude that we have concluded the general debate and we are already at the point where I must actually open the debate on the amendment tabled to the first proposal for a decision. Procedurally. But I'm really begging you about what?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u214	It'll be very short. I must tell you, Mr President, if you have listened to my introductory part earlier, I have proposed to you, as President responsible for the legitimate and constitutional functioning of the National Assembly, that you should call on the proposer, who is the professor who teaches in the Faculty of Law, the professor of law, to explain what he owes to decision-making, because this is essential for decision-making. Whether they bind the National Assembly of Opinions of Lawyers, different opinions, or commits the National Assembly to the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. For if it binds the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, the constitutionally correct legal solution is only one – to bring this farce to an immediate and unconditional conclusion and to a halt. And, of course, allow those who have received the confidence of voters in the elections to carry out their mandate in full and without delay, in accordance with the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with the caselaw of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u215	On the basis of this procedural debate, I am putting forward a proposal for a decision and an amendment by the SDS Group of Members – firstly I will finish, then you will have the right to procedural – to the first proposal for a decision. Now you've got a procedure, but you're really going to explain to me what it is. If it comes to the Institute of Procedural Abuse again, you simply will not get another word for the procedural question at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, what I was about to propose was intended before the debate on the conclusions. I propose that, before the vote on the first decision of the Commission's report, please inform the National Assembly of the following decision, which I will read: "The Council of State shall determine and be informed that, within the framework of its competences, the Mandate-Volution Commission has rejected the decision at the first emergency meeting of the Commission on Human Rights at its 1st meeting. Ten. 2014 which read: In the case of Member Janez (Ivan) Janša, the condition set out in the third indent of the first paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members is fulfilled. The mandate-election committee proposes to the National Assembly to find out that Janša has hereby terminated his term of office." That's a suggestion. Now, here's the explanation. This Decision was rejected by 17 votes to 1 in favour on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. This is said to be the case, first of all, in the process of drafting these proposals, the Mandate-Electorial Commission voted on this motion for a decision which was rejected. And I suggest you take the conclusion to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u217	On this point, I must inform you - and somehow you have not allowed me with these procedural questions - that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has tabled an amendment to the second decision. The amendment was tabled in a decision to inform the National Assembly and not vote on it. This means that it is not possible to vote on the amendment proposing an amendment to such a decision. Furthermore, the content of the amendment does not comply with Article 9 of the Law on Members, which expressly allows the Assembly to either determine the termination of the mandate under Article 9, paragraph 1, and Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Law on Members, or the decision not to terminate the term of office of a Member under Article 9, paragraph 3, of the Law on Members. In addition, a different decision by the National Assembly is not in line with the Law on Members. In view of the above, the National Assembly will neither discuss nor vote on this amendment. In the debate, only what is the substance of the first amendment, which completely amends the proposed decision, is this amendment, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the conditions for a vote on the termination of the mandate have not been met because there is no legal basis for such a decision and would obviously be contrary to the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights, even in clear contradiction with Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 h to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms." This amendment has remained in the whole matter and I am opening a debate here. I'm asking you to sign up. The application runs, then you'll get procedural. These two guys who signed up, they can't even discuss it because they don't have time. And you have a procedure, Comrade Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u218	Dear President, you didn't listen to me very well. I have proposed that before the debate on the amendment to Article 1 and Article 1, please inform the National Assembly of the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly shall determine and take note that, within its powers, the Mandate-Electorial Commission has rejected the decision at the first emergency meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission on 9. Ten. 2014 which read: In the case of Member Janez (Ivan) Janša, the condition set out in the third indent of the first paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members is fulfilled. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly that it be determined that Janša ceases his term of office with this." I have proposed to you, Mr President, also to explain to you that this proposal for a decision has been adopted by the Council of State and that you should also inform the members of the National Assembly that this decision has not been voted on by the Commission of Elections and that 17 members have voted against and one vote in favour. I don't think it's a matter of getting to know the National Assembly or getting to know it. There's no question. And I suggest you do it officially.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u219	That's exactly what I told you, and I don't understand why you're once again answering the same question. I have told you that this briefing will not be made because we will not discuss this, because this is contrary to this Article 2 which is merely informative and therefore we will not vote on it, nor will I put the matter forward. Please do not repeat the same procedural proposal twice. We are moving on to a debate or I find that no one has applied for this debate. Procedurally again, Comrade Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u220	The Honorable President. I am not talking about the amendment to the second proposal for a decision. I am talking about a finding to inform the National Assembly before considering the amendment to Article 1. I suggested it. Otherwise, what you're talking about when you're preventing an amendment from being tabled to a proposal for a decision is probably inappropriate, because you're suspending members of the National Assembly to propose an amendment to a point or a conclusion to any amendment. We have already warned you that you have set this meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission in such a way as to achieve an automatic goal without anyone else being able to propose anything. I believe that in order to avoid any complications with this procedure, including the other amendment that you have found irrelevant, you are taking into account in the procedure. You have a large majority, you can say no. We can amend any proposal for a decision with an amendment, including a finding, Mr President, you cannot take this right away from us. That's what Mr. Gantar did before you. The last one to do it. No other president of the National Assembly has ever done that. The delegation shall have the right to make amendments to the draft decisions. Let's hear it one way or another. Formal reasons – I do not know what provision of the Rules of Procedure you will refer to – are not that we could not do so. I suggest, however, that you first, as I have proposed, inform the National Assembly of the vote on the amendment proposed by Mr Hanžek on the Mandate-Election Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u221	I've been repeating it for the third time. I will not be familiar with this because the content of the amendment is not in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members and I simply do not intend to discuss this further. I don't intend to follow procedure either. The fact is that so far we have come to the point where we should vote on the first amendment tabled and this first amendment tabled is: the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the conditions for a vote on the termination of the mandate are not met because there is no legal basis for this decision and would clearly be contrary to the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights, even in clear contradiction with Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 h Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We are moving on to a decision on this amendment and please check the functioning of your voting devices. The explanations of the voice are coming. Now I have to read the note first. If this amendment is adopted, the National Assembly will not vote on the proposal for a decision submitted to it by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Now, first of all, explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. On behalf of the SDS, mag. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u222	Thank you very much. You have read the decision proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Professor Jurij Toplak's lawyer says: "The Constitution does not allow the withdrawal of a mandate on the basis of the circumstances that existed prior to the approval of the mandate." The secret opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which you did not want to read today, and therefore you have listened to all procedural questions, says: "Article 9 of the Law on Members, according to our opinion, provides for the legal consequences of the termination of the existing function of a Member due to a legal sentence of imprisonment of more than six months. This means that the specific provision of the Law on Members applies only to those Members who are already acting as Members of Parliament in the context of the ruling, but not to those who have obtained this function in the time after the sentence of a judicial judgment." And the spirit of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which the ruling coalition ignores, is contained in this proposal, which notes that there is no legal basis for the withdrawal of the mandate or for the procedure you have chosen. And that's true, not least your lawyers say so, so says the Head of the Mandate-Volution Commission. Look, here's a video of the vote on the Mandate-Volution Commission. This green eight is Mr Horvat, who has supported our proposal on the Mandate-Election Commission and on which you are currently deciding. He probably supported it because, after the end of this term of office, a Member wants to return to law school and wants to continue teaching future generations of lawyers and he probably has no idea what it would be like if he made an unconstitutional decision and then went back to college. I probably shouldn't have come back. That is why, once again, the decision is clear. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the conditions for a vote on the termination of the term of office are not met because there is no legal basis for such a decision and would clearly be contrary to the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. If you do not believe the entire multitude of legal independent experts who have not been paid for these opinions, you should probably trust the leader or President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and one of the most visible representatives of Mir Cerar. Because if you do not believe in your President of the Mandate-Election Commission, then you will really believe only the five lawyers paid, the only lawyers in this country who agree with the procedure you have chosen today, then I propose that you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u223	Explanation of SMC voice by Dr Mitja Horvat. There's no replica, just an explanation of the voice. On behalf of the Group of Members or on a case-by-case basis? [[No, no, ……]] Then I ask, is that such an individual explanation for the voice? I'm going through the list. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u224	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are before one of the most important votes, most likely, in the history of this national assembly. This is one of the votes where you take away the mandate of the man who stood on the defender of the country, who is one of the authors of this country, I can say. I've known him for over 20 years. And if I ever doubt his honesty, I would never be a Member and never be a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I speak this as a member of a relative who has lived for centuries in the territory of the Slovenian Mountains and who has given the world and the Slovenes many intellectuals and many patriots. That is why I have also joined the Slovenian Democratic Party and I believe in the honesty and correctness of our President. What you are doing today to violate the constitutional articles referred to by a number of eminent European and world lawyers by the Slovenian people who have succeeded in the world is what must worry you. You must be worried in your dreams that you've overstepped the Dr. Klemen Jaklič, a constitutional lawyer from Harvard who was a Ph.D. at Harvard and Oxford, academie of Dr. Janez Kranjc, a professor of Roman law, Dr. Yuri Toplak, a doctorate at the University of California, Dr. Vlad Perjuj, who is a constitutional lawyer from Boston College and so on. Dear colleagues, I am very concerned. So if today's so-called products of revolutionary law of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana will win, then we are faced with the fundamental question of whether this week and in these ten days there is an even greater shame in Europe and in the world that happened to us last week. Is it still possible to go beyond that this week? I think it is. Look, there's another world, for some of you, when the border of the Slovenian state ends, there's another world, there's some unnatural environment for revolutionary law. And unfortunately, this will bring certain consequences, some of them also slip into certain [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u225	Time's up, buddy. Dr. Mitja Horvat has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u226	Thank you very much, chairman. Mr. Logar said he was listening to me, but I can see that he wasn't. I said very well earlier that I voted in favour of your proposal, but not because I would agree with it substantively, and not because I would be afraid, and because of where I would go after my term of office. I will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u227	The word for explanation of vote is mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u228	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Now the Head of the Mandate-Volution Commission has taken my breath, I must confess. He voted in favour of our proposal, but not because he would agree substantively and therefore vote against it today. See, if such lawyers are teaching administrative law at the Slovenian Faculty of Law, then it is unusual that only five lawyers in Slovenia who receive payment for this are willing to write that a mandate should be withdrawn. Yes, of the 50 lawyers who spoke of this subject, only 5 such lawyers. I cannot imagine how a Member who has been elected by 3 000 400 votes, as far as Mr Horvat has received, can tell Members or his constituents that he has supported the mandate to support the opposition's proposal on the Mandate-Election Commission in order then to reject it at a meeting of the National Assembly. If anything, we are talking today about the consistency of Slovenian politics. Just this 180 of your plant, which you have enjoyed at this time, is a witness to why Slovenian policy is not consistent because it is unconstantly making decisions. Today, without a systemic solution, you take away someone's mandate and you find that after today's vote, a systemic solution will have to be found; and with such a decision in the National Assembly, you are greatly undermining the reputation of this National Assembly. In addition to one of these paid lawyers, Mr Ciril Ribičič, who said that the quality of the work of the National Assembly is assessed after how many unconstitutional decisions are made. Today, new faces are accepted by one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u229	We are in the stage of explanations of vote and not of debate. Please. A colleague of mag's has an explanation for the vote. Branko Grimes. Excuse me. I was wrong. I'm sorry. Mr. Andrej Chuš first.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are probably all aware here that Slovenia is the victim of a failed transition. This can be found through a monopoly-full state economy, inefficient education and also an ineffective and very expensive judiciary. We probably also agree here that, in the process of independence of Slovenia, we should perform a chandelier. Sadly, then, or at that time, we missed that historic opportunity. Today, I think there is lustration in Slovenia as well, but unfortunately in the opposite direction. The lustration of those individuals who have sought development, democratisation, human rights is taking place. You're just going to take these out or you're going to liquidate them. Let's take a look at the top of the Slovenian Army, which, overnight, you swung with your hand and changed it. Today, here in the National Assembly, you will be pushing out of Parliament or throwing out the leader of the opposition. I would also like to add to such an account the words of the President of the National Assembly in one of the last interviews when he said: "We were previously bound to a different type of country which had an inheritance, credibility and a certain recognition in the international community." True, we lived in a totalitarian country, the essence of which was all one revolution and which had established an economic system whose debts would be paid by our craftsmen. There is no legal basis for the removal of the mandate of a Member elected in the past State elections. This is demonstrated by all the legal opinions we have presented within our parliamentary group. I would also add the words of former Supreme Judge Vasili Polic, who said that this was something unstable about Patria's judgment; and said that it was a real political conviction similar to those that took place immediately after World War II.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u231	A colleague of mag's has an explanation for the vote. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u232	Thank you. It was, of course, a rhetorical question before, for this national assembly, when it decides, is the first one to respect constitutional order. When I asked the question what binds the opinion of some lawyers, or the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia – he certainly did not hope to answer any of the strong law professors from the SMC and neither did anyone else, because this is no longer about legal ignorance or misunderstanding or any legal dilemma. All those who decide today, you know exactly, even after warning their own legal service, that the only legally correct decision is in line with the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and with the legal order of the European Union to allow a Member to exercise the mandate he has received in the elections even fully and smoothly; and therefore there is no basis for any decision you wish. Each other decision is a conscious violation of human rights, not only of one you clearly hate, but also of more than 6 thousand voters and voters who have done nothing wrong to you, but have gone to the elections and have given their voice in good faith to the one they believe will be their will, their desires, their values best realized in the National Assembly. And all the circumstances you are questioning today were already known. All legal and legal provisions made it possible for him to have the right to vote. He went to the polls, got votes, got a mandate. No one has the right to interfere with this mandate. Every intervention within the mandate means, ladies and gentlemen, a direct grave violation of human rights, even after the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. And this decision, which I will vote for myself, is the last constitutionally undeniable outcome you have today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u233	Voice explanation, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u234	Your Honor! The majority of the profession's public opinion is well known. Both the judgment itself and the withdrawal of the mandate are constitutionally controversial and inadmissible. On the other hand, today you are offering us the opinion of a group of experts that has emerged unlawfully. The Public Procurement Act between the contracting authority and the contractor has been violated. How should we believe the legal opinion of lawyers who are consciously violating the law, for we have not received any basis today so that we can think of it as different. However, if I sum up only one of your sentences, still paid for me, groups: "We tend to think that the provision of the law is unclear and constitutes a problem of the rule of law." And you know how they proceed? They find out or they think it's an explanation game. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as long as the National Assembly takes decisions on violations of the Constitution, legislation, human rights violations based on the game, then, my dears, it will not be enough to talk about whether we want new jobs, that we want economic growth and better Slovenia – that will be the end of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u235	Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I'd be happy to support this amendment. Therefore, as a layman on the basis of all this debate and the opinions of experts, I find that the path you have chosen to get your colleague Janez Janša out of Parliament is unconstitutional and unfair. I will take the opinion of one of the constitutional lawyers who says: "The Constitution does not allow the withdrawal of a mandate on the basis of the circumstances that existed prior to the approval of the mandate. For these situations, the Constitution provides for a second solution, that is to determine the conditions which must not be chosen, and provides for a legal remedy in the event of a confirmation of the mandate of a person who should not have a mandate, that is to say a complaint to the Constitutional Court. The Constitution does not allow the search for new solutions in addition to the solution already envisaged by the Constitution in order to find a systemic solution or to resolve the intentions of conviction." And anyone who has a little farm logic is clear on what the Constitution is about. And why – ladies and gentlemen, because I don't know where you come from to go into this procedure, and so many lawyers are among you – you haven't submitted an application for an opinion on the Constitutional Court. You have enough signatures, and you could elegantly pull yourself out and prove yourself right. I don't know where you're going to hide, what faces you're going to have when the Constitutional Court annuls this decision — an illegal, unconstitutional decision of the National Assembly. Why is this exercise here at a time when we all have so much work to do together to get this country out of the crisis, to prepare a budget rebalancing for this year, that state roads will be saved, that roads will be crawled because money is not in the budget. You'll have to work on that. And you only deal with Janez Janša for three months. It's not weird. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u237	Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. It took you two months to actually cook a ministra, which is likely to be cooked today, and you will eat it in a little while. Today I do not want a political decision to be taken, so I will vote on the proposed amendment. All those who will vote differently will make a political decision and, of course, you are already happy to report to the media today and follow what has also been proposed by one of the members on the Mandate-Election Commission, that it should not be decided on the basis of legal facts and that it should be decided politically and in violation of the Constitution. I will also vote in favour of this amendment, because by the coalition or all those who explain the need to withdraw the mandate, I have not received a uniform explanation, so exactly under what Article of the Law, the Constitution could do so. And if we read again the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the last paragraph states that all of this can be disputed in terms of compliance with the Constitution. And a little joke — today is a wash-off day. Some of you tried to wash your hands today, you didn't do anything wrong, you didn't know anything, nobody paid anything, didn't order anything; we don't know how we got the opinions of these lawyers. Well, the others will wash your hands after a while when the matter becomes unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u239	Any other explanation for the voice? Yeah. Then I cross through the list. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I must say that I am happy to support this amendment, because I am convinced that today, as I said before, it is a grave breach of democracy and a grave violation of the Constitution of Slovenia. It is amazing how easy it is for some Members and Members of Parliament, who are first in this National Assembly, to let a regime team convince you from behind and prepare you to vote without your conscience. This is extremely irresponsible and extremely unacceptable. It's you, our new faces. These are the new faces Slovenia and Slovenia have wanted to solve the Slovenian economy, to solve the social problems, their problems, to solve the problem of unemployment, etc. And you're dealing with Janez Jansha. With unconstitutional solutions, by withdrawing a mandate for which you have no legitimate right. Read the Constitution as it stands in the Constitution. Please! You don't laugh, lady, who you already are, but at your age it would be time for you to learn something. [[…]] Please read the Constitution and see what happens. The Constitutional Court will certainly annul this. We'll see how you laugh then. We'll see. And it was only in November that you proposed the first substantive meeting of the National Assembly, where we will discuss the current problems in this country. Do you think the Slovenian people want such new faces? I'm talking to people today, they're already saying, look, that's amazing what's going on. We were confident that these new faces would show some new things, new solutions, etc. None of that. And the Slovenian nation now sees with what interest these new faces have entered the National Assembly to account with the opposition in such a way that you discredit, cast out of Parliament the president of the most powerful opposition party. And everything you can do is to prevent the Slovenian Democratic Party from operating.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u241	The explanation of the vote is not first of all a controversy, a title, a persuasion, a call, and a question which is for the purpose of discussion; it is a matter of presenting the substantive reasons why the Group or Member will vote in favour or "against" the proposed solution. For this reason, I ask that you stick in advance to what it means to present or explain your voice. Now Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u242	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! During today's debate, I have learned that true art is an argument. I also learned that in Slovenia law is not based on the legal basis. In Slovenia, law is not even based on constitutional foundations. I would say that the coalition legal capacity today has professionally shown that the art you create is right for you, which you create entirely in your own way. During today, I have not heard any professional arguments or grounds for your conduct. Not a single one. You haven't answered any of the answers. It's a profession. Is that constructive? It's not for me. You're even introducing a new legal practice. You are instituting legal practice with which you are carrying out public liquidation. Public extermination of those who are on your way. In history, this was done in a secret, hidden, or other way. Today, you are introducing legal practice to do so in a public manner. That's why I'm going to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u243	Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u244	Thank you, President. I have been listening to the debate all day, and I wonder whether there may be some legal basis for the withdrawal of a certain Member's mandate. And I look at the Rules of Procedure, and I read the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, the Law on Members, and finally I dared to look at this – the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I listened to the coalition Members, and those opposition members who are one-legged in the coalition, whether they will tell any new fact, a new legal basis for the withdrawal of the mandate. Nothing! All I heard was: my opinion is, I think and so on, and a lot of these emotional sighs and so on. You did not list any legal acts that would say, "Look, on this basis, we can take away Janez Janša's mandate." And I dared to look at the eminent lawyers in this National Assembly – Members: University Graduate Lawyers, Masters of Law, Doctors of Law, Doctors of our FDV. No legal basis, Your Honor, has been given, why and on what grounds we could take away Mr Janez Janša's term of office. And I was hoping maybe since 1. 8. To this day, however, there are some new legal facts that you will make a conversion. Then all of us for a term of office, all of us 90, including for John Janša's term of office. Today, two, three months later, and the enlightenment, you have been presented with an opinion which you have been told, which has been printed into those of your calendars, today you will easily withdraw your mandate without a business option, without a legal basis and contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The honourable, ethical and moral attitude of Members is at stake today, and so is the rule of law. Apparently you'll be some against the rule of law. I'll be in favour of such a decision and for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u245	The explanation for the vote is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment because only this amendment allows this country to actually guarantee the rule of law or that we will actually have a rule of law. I recall the 1st meeting of this National Assembly, where the current President of the Government and also the President of the Party Mir Cerar and also many of you spoke about cooperation, about the strength of arguments, how the coalition and the opposition can participate. Ladies and gentlemen, today you have a number of legal opinions that call into question the solution that you are proposing, which is a matter of legal and constitutional doubt; and your arguments that this is not the case are, in fact, not. There is no argument that this decision will actually violate human rights. There is no argument that you would not have reached the European Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court and so on with this decision, but you are risking it. I don't know what force is leading you to act if you vote against actually getting into a legal and unconstitutional position and bringing this country into a legal and unconstitutional position. And also in a situation that would be contrary to the Court's decisions on human rights. I don't follow that, ladies and gentlemen. But I am aware that we, like you, will also have to take responsibility for such decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u247	Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll back this decision myself. I will support it if I can express myself with the words of a European renowned energy expert, because I am a legalist. I will support him because I support the opinion of lawyer Janez Čebul, because I support the opinion of lawyer Matthew Avbla, because I support the opinion of lawyer Andraž Terška, because I support the opinion of Saša Zagorec, Juri Toplak, Matevža Krivica, Toneta Jerovška, Lovra Šturm, Mark Novak, Domna Gorenška, Marka Jaklič, Ernest Petrič, Mitje Deisinger, Jan Zobc, Aleksandr Čeferin, Janez Kranjc, Marka Bošnjak, Ivan Belet, Toneta Jerovška and others. The purchase of known lawyers to the five who have issued a paid opinion; the others have issued it or have been defined free of charge. And the arguments I'm hearing from your side, if any, are like the ones I heard at a hearing at a European institution about a week ago. People ask themselves the right questions. On the basis of the debate, I got one question: who's the real doctor here, Mitja Horvat or Joza Tanko? I'll back this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u249	The explanation for the vote is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u250	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'll explain why. For the first time, I believe that the National Assembly, with such an important issue, cannot decide, cannot debate. Why? The National Assembly is a political body and all decisions taken are political. The withdrawal of the term of office of a member of the National Assembly may not be a political decision, but it is a professional decision. The withdrawal of the mandate of a member of the National Assembly cannot be based on a power argument, but should be based on the strength of the arguments. Secondly, Slovenia has more than 2,000 valid laws. No law provides for the removal of the term of office of a member of the National Assembly in the event of a legitimate election. Not a single article. The electoral law does not provide that a Member who is legally convicted cannot run for election. The electoral law does not provide that a Member who is legally convicted and elected cannot be a Member. And a bunch of lawyers who have already been listed by the predecessors, I'm not going to repeat, and they don't agree with your decision. Article 3 of the Constitution states that in Slovenia it has authority over the people who exercise it directly and through elections. The National Assembly cannot, by any decision, place itself above the will of the electorate, as expressed in the vote. You have great courage to vote in favour of the removal of Mr Janez Janša's term of office. Sooner or later you will have to accept this responsibility, because this matter will fall. We are defending not only our President, Janez Janša, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we are defending the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u251	Comrade Gorenak, I assume you want another round of explanation for your voice, so I'll pass the list. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I'm already afraid you've triggered something else against me. Look, if I count correctly, with Dr. Križanič's arrival in the National Assembly, the coalition of nine Doctors of Science counts. If I add up the coalition reserve, we have more doctors of science, the number goes there to 11. Despite all the knowledge, despite all the doctorates, despite everything you have in your life, you are at the polls – first of all, I will support the conclusion that there will be no problem, or our amendment, which actually represents a way out of the problems you have made yourself. [[…]] In the elections you won by saying that – the rule of law and the rule of law, without law there is nothing, with law everything begins and the law ends. But I think you thought, and you were selling people the law that's written in the Constitution and the laws, people thought that. And now you're exercising some natural law in the National Assembly, just like you make it up. And you say, also, the president of the National Assembly earlier: yes, because it is abnormal to be a prisoner in a delegation, it is abnormal. Wait, where are the doctorates?Oh, my God! Doctorates per day – Mrs Kustec, Mr President of the Mandate-Volution Commission and everyone else. Doctorate for the day! If you've run out of knowledge in these doctorates and you're using the natural, but in 1945 they said revolutionary law – then they shot in a different way, and now you're shooting in a slightly more modern way, and you're doing the same thing – then return these doctorates. Or mandates because you lied to people. See, that's a problem. We offer you a way out of the problems you have caused yourself. Support this amendment, I'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u253	The explanation for the vote is Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. My friend Vinko and I have a doctorate, but we have another area. The missing gentleman himself, former comrade, said that this would be a political decision, if I quote him correctly, I will quote only a fraction of it, without personal objection: "We take this political decision and responsibility already by vote." I'm listening to this today, and it seems to me that I'm obviously the biggest jerk in this Slovenia, everyone already knows what will happen a year from now, and I don't even know if I'm going to catch the train to Škofja Loko today. What I want to know most today is what this young man is thinking up there, who's been listening to it for hours. I can take you for a drink, but it doesn't matter what your political line is. There's so much to manipulate with expertise. I know from my former profession this manipulation – we are the politicians who will now make political decisions and we will answer for it, one will disappear, one will be the client, one will be the client. And even in the past, there have been many unconstitutional decisions that were known in advance to be unconstitutional. Maybe some of the old politicians were too good teachers, and we learned that so well. I'll vote against it both times. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u255	Mrs. Susana Nice Šimenka has an explanation for her vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would like to refer to the words of Dr. Avblja in this place. 8. 2014 wrote: "The preservation of the core of passive electoral rights, which in Slovenia is neither constitutional nor legally subject to any other restrictions such as age and business ability, does not allow the removal of the mandate of a Member who has been legally convicted before the term of office. Otherwise, as some other legal experts have pointed out, passive voting rights remain an empty shell. If a person is elected, he may be given a mandate and cannot execute it because he is deprived of it at the same time, such passive right is only a form without content." At the moment, we have the only amendment on the table, which makes sense, because what we have heard today is in fact clear that there is no legal basis for the withdrawal of the mandate and that it would be unconstitutional to withdraw the mandate itself. Of course, that's exactly why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u257	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm going through the list again. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u258	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Once again, honourable Members and Members! I will also vote in favour of the proposed decision or amendment for several reasons: because this is important for this National Assembly and because I think it is important for our Slovenia and Slovenia and Slovenia. Of course, today was particularly funny on my right side, but I'm sure it wasn't funny for those who watched this all day. Especially those who find it hard to live, who don't have tickets that they don't have for their children, but something else. As I examined Slovenian lawyers and lawyers on my e-mail this year, I again tracked down Mr. Alexander Čeferin's lawyer. When the judgment on Patri was delivered, the journalist quoted him as saying: "In the case of Patria, we may be very afraid to live in such a country." But that's what Mr. Alexander Cheferin said. And I urge you to reconsider how you will vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u259	Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! I myself will support this amendment because it gives us the only opportunity to respect the rule of law and constitutional order in this country. After this debate, although I am not a lawyer, I can create my own opinion. On the one hand, the independent opinions cited, two opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of this National Assembly, which should be independent; on the other hand, I have the opinion of five "paid" lawyers, for whom we do not even know whether they received an order for what they received, what they should write and so on. And finally, when we ask questions about these things, we don't get an answer. So you're putting me before the fact that I have to trust some independent legal experts, and you're all warning that, on the other hand, five lawyers, you don't even know if they've been properly engaged if I say very harshly. And that's the kind of answer we get from doctors in science in this area. Anyone who has worked in any public administration knows that certain rules must also be respected for certain procedures. And if the highest authority in this country and the highest legislator, this is the National Assembly, it violates the rules of the game, I am really worried and I find it difficult to listen to such a legal opinion, and I believe it, because even the contracting authority does not know how to order it. They were forbidden to be invited and prepared for free. We all know that nothing is free and that every lunch is paid in the end. We can only ask ourselves in what way. And some of you talk about us making a political decision all the time, and on the other hand, you're paying for legal change. Let's just keep it consistent and deal with ourselves. And we could have done it months ago. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Politically decided not to pay some good jobs through legal opinions. And in the end, you all referred to this opinion, and on the other hand, you say that you make political decisions. Let's be consistent. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u261	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm going through the list. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u262	Thank you so much for saying that. Our Group of Members has proposed the next amendment on a proposal for a decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the conditions for a vote on the termination of the term of office have not been met, as there is no legal basis for such a decision and would clearly be contrary to the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, even in clear contravention of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 h Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This is the amendment we have before us. I'll back him up. Otherwise, because of decisions that are different from our proposal for a decision, we should be very concerned because Slovenia is very much on the legal freedom ladder. We are strong behind the Bantustanas of Swaziland and Lesotho, which are within South Africa, we are behind one of these bantustans on the world scale. If this motion for a decision is not put to the vote, I am sure that we will slide for about 20 more places for a bantustan. The task of Members of the National Assembly, too, Mr President, is to vote in accordance with the standards, with the legal basis that we have in this National Assembly. Our decisions, even if they are political, must be based on the Constitution, we must rely on the law, and we must also put them in proper procedural orientation. In the event that these conditions are not met, we are deliberately entering the field of infringement. I, the Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, am not in favour of knowingly committing violations of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, to weaken the legal freedom to weaken conscious legal protection, to knowingly harm people. That is why I will also support this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u263	Any other explanation for the voice? I don't think he's gone. Now you have also explained or exactly what this conclusion is, so I will not read it again. I only point out that if this amendment is adopted, the National Assembly will not vote on the proposal for a decision submitted to it by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We vote on the first amendment of the SDS Group, which completely amends the proposal for a decision. There are 84 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 60. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 60.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The decision is as follows: Ambassador Janez (Ivan) Janša, irrespective of the reason set out in the third indent of Article 9(1) of the Law on Members, shall not terminate the term of office of a Member and may act as a Member. I'm asking if there's any explanation for that. On behalf of the SMC Group, he shall have the word mag. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u264	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In times of growing need to respect legal and ethical values, it is essential to maintain an adequate level of parliamentaryism and political culture. According to the nature of the matter, the Member is credited with the qualities that justify his place in society, especially the action for the benefit of the people, the non-use of the situation for private purposes, the preservation of his own integrity and thus the reputation of the National Assembly. In the particular case that we are discussing today, we are based on the fact that a legal judgment has been issued that a penalty has been imposed on the prison for more than six months. In view of the nature, the gravity of the offence and the length of the sentence imposed, a number of questions on ethical acceptability and the functional ability to perform two duties at the same time are raised. Firstly, the suspension of penalties as legitimate consequences of a judicial judgment in the sense of respect for the principles of the rule of law. Secondly, it is incompatible with the right or obligation to act as a Member. The Constitution in Article 82 speaks of the legal definition of the conditions of the Member's inadmissibility. It imposes an obligation on the legislator to impose restrictions on passive electoral rights. This is laid down by the Law on Elections to the National Assembly in the Work of Passive Electoral Law, which relates to the election and election or confirmation of a mandate, and the Law on Members in Work relating to the performance of a Member's function, in Article 9, to terminate his mandate by law if there is a fact that he is legally convicted. And that fact exists in a particular case. However, the National Assembly under the Law on Members in Article 9, paragraph 3, has the option to take a political decision to ensure that the Member does not, however, terminate the term of office. Today we are voting on this decision. In view of the above, the position of the SMC Group is that it will not support the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u265	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u266	Thank you so much for saying that. This proposal for a decision to be used to do the dirty work does not have the basis in Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly in the third indent. In this part, the Rules of Procedure are very clear, and it states that the Mandate-Electorial Commission shall inform the assembly of cases which result in the mandate of the Member. The decision you are proposing to decide on the National Assembly is not such a decision. The mandate-holder committee explicitly voted that Janez Janša would not terminate her term of office. So he's got a mandate. If we would like to make this diversion with regard to Janez Janša's decision on the mandate, we should draw up a procedural and commercially correct decision on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. It's a decision like it was made in the case of Lucky Friend. However, in the light of the legal opinions submitted to the National Assembly, according to all the other opinions expressed by the various lawyers, the Mandate- volitional Commission could not draw up such a proposal, such as in the case of Happy Friends, because it did not have a legal basis for this. What the leadership of the National Assembly is doing and the President of the Mandate-Election Commission and coalition is a diversion to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Diversion. The inability to draw a decision that is procedurally correct, based on the legal basis, you have not done so, and now, through a positive decision, that is to say, a decision that is not in line with the rules of procedure, you are trying to achieve or through this manoeuvre to carry out the discharge procedure, as was also stated in the explanation of the previous Group. Gentlemen, Mr President, this is unacceptable, what is being done in this case! In such an obvious way, with so much fraud within the business arrangement you will achieve some goal that has been set somewhere. I am just afraid of what further proposals will be when it comes to the budget when it comes to other things. If this capital, intellectual capital and the potential it has, the coalition is unable to submit a legally correct decision to the decision, then also this drawback which you have now drawn up in the context of [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] it should not be given. Mr President, after explanation, I would also have a procedural proposal to say in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u267	Do you now think of a process proposal because there are no other explanations sent? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u268	Mr President, I propose a procedural proposal that you, as chairman, find that the voting on this motion for a decision does not meet the business conditions and that this motion for a decision be withdrawn from the procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the third paragraph of Article 36 provide, without a doubt, that the Mandate-Making Commission shall inform the National Assembly of cases which result in the termination of the mandate of the Member. It's about cases that have consequences. The positive decision of the Mandate-Making Commission not to terminate the term of office of Ambassador Janez Janša does not comply with the condition set out in the third indent of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure. It's not working. And as chairman, we should find that this decision is not procedurally in accordance with the arrangements set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. That's absolutely inconclusive. In fact, it can be found by someone who does only a farmer's work. So you don't need legal professionals, so you don't need to know what or who. The legislative and legal service has also specifically warned you in the opinion that, although not only for these procedural reasons but also for substantive reasons, there are no grounds for deciding on the proposal for a decision processed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I would be ashamed to process such a proposal, and in such a split, in a smoldering way. I therefore propose that you take note of the finding that the proposed decision given in the decision-making procedure does not meet the conditions for deciding on the mandate of Mr Janša. On 1 August, the Council of State ruled on the same date. On 9 October, the Commission decided once again to grant Janez Janša the mandate, that there was no reason to withdraw his mandate. And now I don't know what they want with this diversion, with this maneuver. I suggest you withdraw the proposed decision from the decision-making process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u269	I decide not to withdraw the proposed decision from the decision. We continue to decide because the decision was based on Article 9 of the Law on Members and because the Mandate-Electorial Commission submitted it accordingly. That's my decision. Now I'm asking if there's any individual explanation for the voice. There are no individual explanations of voice. Procedural. If it's not the same thing I've already decided, then I can't, otherwise I can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'm so innovative, I won't keep saying the same thing. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose a 45-minute recess before the decision is taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u271	Before the interruption, I'm asking if there's any explanation for the vote, because then there won't be. There's no explanation for the voice. After this 45-minute interruption, there are only 3 minutes left for you, and then we actually decide. I hereby order the meeting to be suspended and resumed at 8:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u272	We're going to continue with the broken 1st point. Comrade Tank, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u273	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I declare obstruction of voting in this decision, which remains. It seems unacceptable for us to have a representative of the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly to tell the camera in public that this decision will only be used to vote against and that you will come to the situation in a non-business manner when you are able to read the conclusion that Member Janez Janša will end his term of office. In doing so, I would like to point out that none of those who advocate and who will vote in favour of this decision have succeeded, did not want to explain and explain the reasons. The drafter of the conclusions, too, says the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, despite numerous calls to explain and explain the legal dilemmas arising from the opinions of the Legal and Legal Service, the opinions of other lawyers, the opinions of the expert group, by the way, none of these opinions adheres to what you are going to do, only points to the fact that it is not a substantive decision based on the constitution, laws, decisions of the Constitutional Court, which, by the way, are also an integral part of the rule of law. And the decision you will take is also contrary to all decisions in similar cases of the European Court of Human Rights. It seems to us that if I use the words of your President Mir Cerar, the Prime Minister of the Government here in the National Assembly, it is unacceptable. What you're doing with this thing, with this procedure, is a balinian act. If anyone among these eminent persons in the National Assembly were able to accept and process the decision that John Janša would clearly end his mandate under the Constitution and the laws, then he would still understand that. However, since you are not able to do so without the support of the legal opinion you have specifically ordered in this case, you are not able to argue for yourself, you are not able to even discuss this item on the agenda, but we cannot find anything else but that you are going to be a childless child and that this is an example of violence, in the case of the implementation of the natural law of the majority over the minority. And we will not be involved in such procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-10-15-SDZ7-Izredna-05.ana.u274	We will now vote on the proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Once again, I will read the motion for a decision on which we vote: Ambassador Janez (Ivan) Janša, regardless of the reason set out in the third indent of Article 9(1) of the Law on Members, does not terminate the mandate of a Member and may act as a Member. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 58. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 58.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. The national assembly shall be informed of the following decision on the basis of the third indent of the first paragraph and of the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and of the 112th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: It shall be ascertained that Member John (John) Janša has been sentenced by a final sentence of six months, and shall therefore terminate the term of a Member as of today, in accordance with the third subparagraph of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members. On this basis, I will ask the State Election Commission to inform the National Assembly, which candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly.
