ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I apologize for the short delay because the College has lingered a little longer than we anticipated. I'm asking you to understand. I begin by continuing the 23rd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mr Dragutin Mate, mag. Matthew Tonin from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Mr. Janez Ribič from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., Dr. László Göncz to 1 p.m., Mr. Jerko Čehovin until 2 p.m. and Mr. Jakob Preseknik after 4 p.m. and Alenka Pavlič until 3 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Multiplicity of Real Estates by Emergency Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government has drawn up a proposal for a law that provides real land data to the mass valuation system with a few solutions that will allow for more transparent implementation of the tasks of the real estate recording, valuation and taxation systems; the main objective is to regulate the possibility of changing the general market value in the event of specific circumstances. The government had already announced the bill when it adopted the Real Estate Tax Act. The substantive law is governed by four sets. Article 1 provides more precisely for the purpose of registering mass valuation and taxation. The proposed solution defines as a public good all real estates which, in accordance with the real legal law and other regulations, in particular the Construction Act, can actually be regarded as a public good and clearly regulates the way they are determined in the Real Estate Register. Both public and public property are well-defined, which by law are in the public good. These are roads, railways and their accompanying infrastructure and water, some types of buildings forming part of public infrastructure, and all land without buildings which are publicly well recorded in the land book. The second substantive solution to the bill refers to the completion of the land-setting procedure for the construction of buildings. This builds on the obligation of municipalities to inform the public about this at the time of setting up the land for the construction of buildings and to allow it to comment. At the same time, it shall be the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space to control the establishment of land for the construction of buildings. The most important amendments to the law relate to a new chapter which regulates the possibility of changing the general market value in the event of specific circumstances. As specific circumstances, the law provides for objective circumstances relating to individual real estate and is not taken into account in the valuation model because of specificities. It also requires that these are circumstances affecting value by more than 40%. It is established that the impact of specific circumstances on owners may be exercised at any time by the role of the geodetic administration which will decide on the proposal in accordance with the rules of the general administrative procedure. In the event of taking into account the proposal, the value of the property will change accordingly, may be increased or reduced and recorded in the real estate register, which means that it will be taken into account for all purposes for which such value is used. The revised value will apply to changes in data affecting specific circumstances. In most cases, the proposal will be drawn up and submitted by the owner himself, only for larger-value real estates, an estimate of the size of the impact of specific circumstances is required by the valuer. In particular, the possibility for the Geodetic Authority to change the value of natural disasters also to property by official duty is also addressed, on the basis of an assessment of the damage caused by specific commissions for the purpose of assessing the damage caused by natural disasters. In the fourth set of amendments, the content of the real estate market records is more clearly regulated. In particular, it is clearer to specify the types of leases that have been regulated in more detail in the sub-legislative acts so far. During the amendments introduced to the law during the second reading of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, I would like to highlight in particular those relating to the chapter on changing the general market value. The provision on mandatory electronic submission of amendment proposals has been deleted. The threshold for the property value to be presented to the proposal for an impact assessment made by the valuer has risen from EUR 50,000 to EUR 500,000. The government is undermining this change of law. In line with everything the Government has said, it proposes to the National Assembly that you support the proposal for a law both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 86th emergency meeting. 3. 2014 as the parent working body considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the mass valuation of real estates, EPA 1803-VI, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 84th session. 2. 2014 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee was informed by the Legislative and Legal Service of 10. 3. 2014, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. The proposal was also submitted pursuant to Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure to local communities, and the time limit for their opinion was 8. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Within a period of time, the Committee received an opinion from the following local communities: letter from the Municipality of Domžale of 6. 3. 2014, letter from the Municipality of Ljubljana – City Administration of 7. 3. 2014, letter from the Municipality of Ljubljana – Department of Space Management dated 7. 3. 2014 and letter from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia of 7. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Amendments to the coalition were made to paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 10, 12, 14 for the new Articles 14a and 15 to the new Article 15a of the Law. The amendments were also tabled by the SDS Group and the New Slovenia Group to Article 6. In the introductory addendum, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the main solutions to this proposal of the Act, which includes four substantive sets, namely a clear definition of what is public good, a clear definition of so-called land for the construction of buildings, the possibility of taking into account the specific circumstances that the owner of the property can enforce in the valuation model, and changes relating to the recording of the real estate market. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that, in addition to the written opinion already given, she could confirm that the amendments tabled followed the opinion of the Office, except the amendment for paragraph 15a. Later in the consideration of the amendment referred to in the new Article 15th, the representative of the Service explained that it was very serious warnings, namely those of a constitutional, legal and business nature, which she explained in detail below. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the parliamentary groups, namely Articles 1, 2, 3, 6, Amendments to 19.a, 19b, 19b, 19d, 19f and 19g of the Basic Law, Articles 7, 10, 12, 14, for a new Article 15 and 15 of Article 15. However, it did not accept the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 and 11 and the amendments of the New Slovenia Group. The Committee did not vote on the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups for the new Article 15th, taking into account the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service and the fact that it was not tabled in accordance with Article 129(3). It's about correcting the coefficient in this marriage and equalizing residents and non-residents. This was later done with amendments to the Real Estate Act. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u6	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance! The time is 10.20, it is said that it is still a bad hour until we are invited to the Constitutional Court to finally learn how it has been decided on the law that burdens Slovenian political and other places for the last six months. However, Parliament has decided to continue in its manner, in the course of the coalition, to demonstrate the power of the voting machine, as it has been doing for the past week, as it has done for the past few months, and continues to show arrogance to the Constitutional Court and arrogance to the people. This has also proved very well on the committee on the law that we are considering today. As the chairman of the committee explained, we have also received article 15.a there, which was simply trying to regulate tax matter in another law, which we were very clearly warned by the Legislative and Legal Service that it was not so easy to do and that Parliament was going into a new adventure and a new non-constitution in this work. I am pleased that the Chairman of the Committee finally recognized this and withdrew from his original position and said that he would not define it or support it. Finally, he made a decisive move and simply withdrew the amendment from the agenda or did not vote on it. Since last autumn, burlesque has already been drawn around this law, where attempts are being made — as has been said and foretold today at the time of the adoption of this law — to make up a few reeds that simply do not go together. Last year we warned in the Slovenian People's Party, in opposition, and this warning was also accompanied by 80,000 people that, with such a Property Valuation Act and such a Property Tax Act, we cannot accept a fair tax – a tax that will not be unjust, a tax that will not bring many people to despair. Here again today is the amendment of this law, which now attempts, when virtually all hands are broken or prevent the normal enforcement of such a law in this year, to insert some corrections that the Geodetic Authority is now supposed to take into account. The deadlines for issuing these doses are also being extended, and not least, the expectation that taxes on real estate taxes will be collected this year. I myself place a lot of hope in the Constitutional Court, in the wisdom of the Constitutional Court, to protect people from these nonsensees that this Siamese twin of real estate laws – property taxes and the Law on mass valuation – bring. I believe that today the coalition, as it has been doing all the time, will once again be implementing, as it was yesterday, the famous 48 votes. I hope that you will also follow in the meantime what the Constitutional Court will adopt; and that the time will finally come for the government and the coalition to be sober in this area and that we will put our heads together and simply try to find a solution for this country. This is a non-professional approach, it is an approach that requires responsibility. I hope those of you who are the creators of this confusion that we've been doing for the past six months are aware of that. In the Slovenian People's Party, we simply obstructed this committee on the committee because we simply did not consider it worthy to sit at this table and accept these corrections. Now, the material adjustments are such that they follow some of the content that is acceptable. Otherwise, I place more hope in the Constitutional Court and that this confusion that you have created over the last six months will be saved from the Slovenian political and other space.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present! We have before us in public a considerable novel of the Law on Mass Valuation. In particular, the part relating to the change in the level of the rate of non-residency to 0,15 per cent or the equalisation of the tax rate for both residence and non-residency was taken into account. Let me briefly point out that the novelty introduces major solutions in four substantive sets, namely the definition of public goods, the identification of so-called walled land, that is, land for building buildings, the possibility of taking into account the specific circumstances that the owner of the property can enforce in the valuation model, and the changes relating to the recording of the real estate market. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we have determined and weighed whether this is only a significant tax content that is exclusively part of tax legislation, or whether it is a common real estate law. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service also shows that this provision is extremely controversial both from a systemic, administrative and commercial point of view. Let me just remind you that last year we confirmed the prohibition of referendums on tax laws, and according to our conduct it is a possible violation of the Constitution and thus the incompetence of the referendum. Of course, on such warnings from the professional service of our house, members of the Parliamentary Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy last week did not accept an amendment on the equalisation of tax rates for non-resident housing. And that's exactly what the government arranged in the real estate tax novel. However, we supported the equalization of land for construction with the rest of the unpaved buildings. In this context, we have also received opinions from some local communities, which have already been listed in the report of the President of the Committee on Finance and the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we find and believe that a great deal of problems or problems stem from the irregular records of the competent institutions and not only the Gursa who brought these experts together. As we are informed, it is only three percent of the property owners who would like to change their real estate data. Similar information is also available when determining the market value for tax and other purposes and when determining cadastral income. I can say that Members and Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners' Group will vote in favour of the complementary draft law adopted on the home working body; in good faith that the legal security of citizens, public financial sustainability and universal administrative acceptability will be ensured.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the views of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues; a nice greeting to the Madam Secretary of State! Today we are considering important amendments to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which is the basis for determining the value of real estate, from which we will pay the property tax, probably under the Property Tax Act No 2. The government has proposed that this law be treated in an urgent manner, and the reason for this is that the proposed amendments to the law will be taken into account when the property tax is applied for this year. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia believe that such important systemic laws as the Real Estate Tax Act and the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate are not allowed to be adopted by emergency procedure. The adoption of system laws requires a longer regular procedure in which both Members and the general public are provided to exchange opinions, opinions and proposals that contribute to consistent and fair solutions. Based on the exact records, we can also produce exact mathematical simulations based on mathematical models, so that we can see in advance how the law would work and how the law would work. In adopting the Real Estate Tax Act, Members of Nova Slovenije pointed out the difficulties in implementing the law due to unregulated real estate records, which, after citizens and other debtors had received informational calculations last month, proved correct. We are convinced that it would take longer to regulate records in order to first arrange at the national level the interconnection of databases and then the appropriate system of regular updating of records, as real estate data are practically changing daily. Since the real estate taxation system is based on a mass valuation system, changes and additions to this law are needed. This is a matter for a more precise definition of the status of public goods, to arrange records concerning the use of land or land for the construction of buildings, to clarify the definition of transactions recorded in the real estate market records. A particularly important area which is subject to the regulation of this law, and which we want to place on Christian Democrats in particular, is the regulation of the procedure for correcting the valuation of property. We find that there are inequitable and high deviations in the valuation of real estates. In the valuation of mutually comparable properties, such as typical assembly or type houses, in several cases the deviation in the transmitted informational calculations of the values of two identical properties is also 100 % or more. Further irregularities have been identified in luxury real estates, which are estimated to be unrealistically low according to the Geodetic Administration. In the proposal under consideration today, the Government gives the possibility to correct the value of immovable property which is not actually assessed, but the proposal of the law gives the possibility to submit such a proposal only to persons who are liable to the property tax, i.e. to the owner of the individual property, the tenant and the official beneficiary. In New Slovenia, we have pointed out that with such a narrow circle of persons who are entitled to the proposal to correct the value of real estate, we will not achieve the objective to which the legislator is likely to follow – that is, the objective of the correct generalisation or where a greater deviation of the property from this value is given from the actual market value of each property. The regulation of real estate records must not only be the interest of owners and other holders of real and bond rights on real estate, but in particular the interest of the State which has taxed the property and the tax rate depends on its value. Many luxury real estates, from residential houses, villas and castles, are recorded as having several times lower values than their actual market value, resulting in several times lower levels of the measured and subsequently collected real estate tax. Due to the correct real estate records, anyone who finds a greater difference between the value of the individual property and its actual market value should be given the opportunity to give the initiative to the geodetic administration to determine its correct or actual market value. However, the procedure for determining the change in property value must be initiated and carried out by the Geodetic Administration on an official basis. In this direction, we have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 6 of the bill in New Slovenia. If this amendment is adopted, Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will also support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate was adopted in 2006. The valuation of property in the field was carried out in 2010. At that time, we all received home information on informational calculations of our property values and were invited to arrange the situation of our property. Today, however, we are considering the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, which is the basis for the assessment of the property tax. For mass valuation it is typical to take into account the same methods for determining market value in individual regions of Slovenia. The reasons for the adoption of the novel are clear regulation of the definition of public goods for the purpose of registering, evaluating and taxing real estate, the need for more operational land registration arrangements for building buildings, the need to upgrade speech procedures to a general market value in the event of specific circumstances, the need for a clearer definition of the type of business recorded in the real estate market register, and the need to establish a criterion for verifying market rent. Public good is in line with the Real Law, a thing that everyone can use in accordance with its purpose under the same conditions. The Government wishes to clearly limit the concept of public goods only to the public good, where the right of general use clearly exists and therefore proposes that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 8(3) of the Real Estate Tax Act, which provides for the taking into account of an exemption for public goods which is not recorded in the Land Book, if the land is under categorised roads, forest land, railways and water land, a uniform way of determining public goods for land without buildings on the basis of a single register, whether those land is recorded in the Land Book as a public good or not. As a public good, other land without buildings, which are publicly well placed in the land book, is also identified as a public good. Buildings considered to be public good are ports, airports, railway station, bus station, toll station, border crossing, railway infrastructure and road infrastructure buildings. With the amendment of the Act, it is intended to define clearly the public good for the purpose of registering, evaluating and taxing real estate. The increase in the operationality of land registration for the construction of buildings builds on the procedure for the general market value of real estates, which will enable the corresponding increase or reduction of the value of real estate, taking into account the specific evidentiary circumstances; and to define more clearly the types of transactions recorded in the real estate market records and the intentions of the real estate tax to regulate the criterion for assessing when the rental space can be considered as a free market surrender. The amendment of the Law on Mass Valuation seeks, inter alia, to introduce the possibility of objecting to the general market value of real estate in the event of specific circumstances; to specify that in the event of natural disasters, a reduction in the value of a larger number of real estates is to be determined by the Geodetic Authority on an official basis. In addition, the amendment should provide that for 2014 the land for building buildings is valued in the same way as the remaining unpaved buildings, thereby reducing their value as well as the tax. According to the Geodetic Authority, owners can calculate the amount of the tax to an average of nine times the lower value. The relevant novelties also specify which types of leases must be recorded in the real estate market records, the characteristics of the transactions and the manner in which the market rent is assessed for the purposes of determining when the lease is considered to be free market surrender. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support the amendment of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The fact is that the confusion in the area of property taxation in Slovenia is exceptional at the moment. In fact, no one knows how much, how much, or how much, his property or property will be taxed. Today, we are re-adopting some law by emergency procedure, rather than actually sitting down, thinking about it, doing some analysis, and then deciding what are the best options. The government denies the problems that have arisen in the windows of Gurs. He says there was relatively little data repair. But you know, this is about the same as it claims that in Slovenia we are collecting about 5 billion 300 social security contributions and that it is not so bad if 250 million of them are not collected per year. If they were to be collected, we would not have to enforce the real estate tax. And the government is inadvertently generalizing. Let us recall estimates of how one average family will pay more than 3 euros a month for an average apartment. The calculations made by our citizens and citizens at home show a completely different trend. What we're doing today is making an even bigger mess. We're not gonna solve any problems with that. We may be able to repair some areas a little bit, but far from being systematically and well regulated. This amendment should also aim at the possibility of people complaining about the general market value. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only a problem that they can complain; the problem is how they can complain. The problem is that the general market value assessed by Gurs with its methods – scientific or whatever – is significantly different from the real market value of real estate in Slovenia. And that's our main problem. Therefore, some properties on the Coast, which we could also see in the media, are extremely low and some land on the outskirts of the other end of Slovenia is inappropriate. Something is very wrong, ladies and gentlemen, with these appreciations. And here again shows a big gap between theory and practice. We have a marriage, but the implementation of this law has sucked. I hope that sometimes those who do not implement the laws that we adopt in the National Assembly, as it should, will be responsible for this. As we say, with this law we will rush, we will do nothing good, we will cause even more confusion. If, in this process, the adoption of the property tax law and this law were to be heard a little bit more and taken into account any comments that we have made in good faith in the opposition, then we could have a different and better law today. Let me conclude with the words spoken by the President of the Government at that time, remember when we adopted the 2014 budget rebalancing. She said: "Connecting, dialogue and cooperation. These have been my guides so far, and so will they." And I'm asking you where in the process of adopting this law you've seen the realisation of this commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u16	Respected and respected! Today is a new law on the mass valuation of property, with which the Government wants to regulate the area and correct the errors that we Members and Members have been alerted to at the stage of the adoption of the Real Estate Tax Act. At the time, however, the assessment of the need to resolve and regulate such errors in this law, as well as the errors that have become very evident after citizens and citizens have been given informational calculations by the taxpayers, which are expected to provide guidance for the assessment of the property tax this year. From these informational calculations it became clear that there was a greater scope of error in the records of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia and that it was not possible to blame only the owners of the property for these errors. Not particularly because it is obvious that in individual registers — for example in the register of real estate records and, for example, in the administrative registry — there were a number of derogations. The Geodetic Administrations of the Republic of Slovenia could have warned the debtors of these differences before the time when there were differences between the data, but it did not. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, as before us today, limits the status of public goods only to property on which the right of general use exists. Following the adoption of the Real Estate Tax Act, it became clear that certain local communities have reclassified certain land and facilities to avoid major tax obligations and have a public good function. The law thus regulates this issue in a way that property, which is recorded as a public good, must also have the actual property of the public good. The law also complements the general market opposition procedure in such a way that the value of the property can be significantly increased or reduced in the case of proven specific circumstances. In the event of natural disasters, however, the possibility of a change of value being carried out by the Geodetic Authority is also being regulated by an official duty. However, in order to allow the Institute to be used for a possible tax assessment this year, it is important that the law be enforced as soon as possible. With regard to the determination of the base for land taxation, the owners of the property to which the value has increased due to the determination of their land for the construction of the buildings must be informed of the change in the value of the property and the municipality must inform and give them an appropriate opportunity to object in the event of such changes. It is worth noting that this law – I think it was adopted in 2006, 2007 – is already basically meant to create a basis for the introduction of real estate tax through a very expensive valuation, registration, registration operation. At that time, a model of mass valuation was chosen, and later legislative solutions, such as the Real Estate Tax Act, were only legal until then. This indicates that the introduction of real estate tax was a very long process involving several governments and only the epilogue experienced at the end of last year as part of the adoption of budgetary documents. In this respect, it would be serious to ask about the responsibilities and intentions of those who today appear to be great fighters against the property tax, in fact by adopting this law and the processes that the country then carried out and paid tens of millions of euros for them, by plowing the ice and creating the basis for the decisions we have taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! The Law on the mass valuation of real estate complements the possibility of objecting to the value of real estate in the event of proven specific circumstances. The value may be reduced appropriately at the initiative of the owner but may also be increased. Special circumstances are considered to be circumstances which are not otherwise included in the valuation model and which the owner was unable to influence and have a very significant impact on the property value. These specific circumstances include, inter alia, public restrictions, land degradation and natural disasters and the like. More specifically, if a house is burned down, the change in value that this creates and is obvious can be based on this fact, the owner may make a proposal to change the value of the property without the additional cost of the pricer. The Committee's consideration also adopted an amendment which allows most of these proposals to be submitted by the owner or his authority for value change without the appreciation of the authorised valuer. Of course, this is not forbidden. However, this method is simpler and, above all, cheaper for the real estate owners themselves. In the Civil Gazette, we advocate solutions close to the citizens, not those written on the skin of various lobbyes. The Law also specifies what is considered to be public good, in particular in terms of real estate tax, and specifies more precisely the procedures relating to the procedures of municipalities for determining land for the construction of buildings. An obligation to inform the public is laid down and allows owners and citizens to respond appropriately and, where appropriate, to complain. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette we announce support for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And we are moving on to a debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 6. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, even from this city number 90, everyone has a very nice greeting! In the position of the Group of Members, we have announced that we will support the Government's proposal for a law, but as a condition, we are imposing an amendment to Article 6; a new Article 19b restricts the circle of persons who can make a proposal at the Geodetic Authority to change the value of the property due to specific circumstances. In this circle of persons belong the owner of the property or other person who is registered as a taxable person, tenant, service beneficiary, etc. in accordance with the Property Tax Act. With such a legal dictatorship, the records of property values will remain unregulated. It's just our belief. The owners of individual properties in the territory of Slovenia are often older and sicker persons who do not know and cannot invest a formal proposal to change the value of the property. A large proportion of the property is registered to persons residing abroad, but it is not known whether they are still alive or not. Furthermore, a number of properties are registered in the name of legal persons, where the process of their termination has long been legally completed, and according to land-book data, they are still the owners of these properties. For all of these cases, a change in the value of the property will not be possible, although there are actual grounds or specific circumstances for this, as there will be no proposal from the beneficiary. These are examples from real life and we should – I believe – discuss this further. The regulation of real estate records must not only be the interest of owners and other holders of real and bond rights on real estate, but in particular the interest of the State which has taxed the property and the tax rate depends on its value. Now we are not just talking here about the fact that value has to be lower in order to understand each other. In the position of the Group of Members, I have pointed out that in many cases the valuation of various properties has been overestimated. So we're defending the state's interest, and probably no one here can challenge us defending the country's interest. Many luxury real estates, from residential houses, villas and castles, are recorded as having several times lower values than their actual market value, resulting in several times lower levels of the measured and subsequently collected real estate tax. I therefore argue that I am in favour of the interests of the State. Due to the correct real estate records, everyone must be able to give the initiative to the geodetic administration to determine their correct or actual market value, I stress, anyone who finds a greater difference in the value of the individual property than its actual market value. The procedure for determining the change in property value shall be that of the Geodetic Administration to initiate and carry out on an official basis. Also in this procedure, a decision will be taken to modify the value of the property against which a legal remedy can be lodged. The costs of the change in property value procedure will be borne by the budget of the Geodetic Authority if the procedure was carried out on an official basis. Colleagues and colleagues, I think I have presented in a broad and reasoned manner enough why the New Slovenia Group has tabled an amendment to Article 6. Of course, I also look forward to your debate, and in the end, I also look forward to your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? On the government's side, I give the word "mag" first. The crowers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much. With regard to the amendment tabled, I would like to clarify the position of the Government or draw attention to some of the problems the proposed amendment poses. Allowing data in the real estate register to be altered at the request of anyone who notices or considers that the value of the property in the register is not recorded in the right amount may constitute a significant intervention in the rights or entitlement of the real estate owner. It is therefore necessary to be extremely careful in determining the possibility of carrying out this procedure. Finally, it is also necessary to take into account the competences of the municipalities under the Property Registration Act, which may correct or require the correction of certain data, for which the municipalities themselves are responsible or may supervise them in some way, but it is necessary to pay very close attention to the ownership of the property owner. With regard to the addition of the proposed Article to the costs of the procedure and the method of deciding on the change in the value of the property, we estimate that no addition is necessary, since it is already established that special circumstances are to be applied under the procedure under the General Administrative Procedure Act. For this reason, the way costs are charged or the way costs are shared between the applicant and the administrative authority is determined by the rules of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The text of paragraph 19 (b) of Article 9 relates only to the costs incurred in the submission of a proposal to amend the value of the property but not to the costs incurred in the process of determining the specific circumstances. Since special circumstances are decided in the administrative procedure, no special arrangements are necessary in this respect in Article 19.c. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I wish I was wrong, but I'm afraid I can't be wrong. When I look at the amendment proposed by the SDS Group, it is very clear in paragraph 8: "For real estate whose value exceeds EUR 50,000, the estimate of size and the justification for size must be influenced by specific circumstances on the value of the property or the assessment of the significant deviation of the property value from comparable real estates by the valuer." In short, in order to enforce practically any specific valuation of value or particular circumstances, this must be done by the valuer. This is a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Unfortunately, I cannot understand this differently than that this proposal has maimed either the value society or the valuers themselves. Since we have already changed this on the committee, we have adopted an amendment that raises this value to half a million euros, which is certainly a significantly more reasonable value. Now the SDS wants to reintroduce this idea through the back door, from which only the valuers will benefit. This was also in the basic proposal for amendments to the law prepared by the Government, but at the time we corrected it on the Committee, so that we essentially fixed it. The adoption of this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party would mean an absurd situation when a family house was burned to the ground, estimated at EUR 100,000. We all know how valuable this property is then. Then the one who burned down his house should enforce this through the purchase of a price at the price of a valuer, which is, say, 300 euros, and only then could he enforce this reduction. Therefore, I propose, dear colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, that you come forward with a procedural proposal and withdraw this amendment, which is actually to the detriment of all citizens of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Romana Tomc wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We are not withdrawing this amendment. However, I would like to clarify something about the introduction of this amendment and the procedure on the Committee on Finance when we adopted this bill or this amendment. In fact, the law is not that simple if someone wants to go and seriously study it. Some of us did so, prepared the amendments, went into the matter, and then on the committee we experienced that the government or the coalition with the amendments came to almost every article or with so many amendments that it was almost impossible to follow what we had at that moment on the table. Let me remind you again on this occasion. It even came with such a low-level amendment or proposal that they wanted to regulate the tax rate in the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates. Following the debate and this content was extremely difficult. But I am glad that you are alone — as I have discussed it, I have been warned that many of our proposals are already contained in the amendments of the coalition. You obviously saw that you really crowned him, and then you were in some weird state when you had to fix your own mistakes. On the basis of what we have proposed. At the same time, it is good for me to see that irregularities or errors have been identified or, whatever the case, corrected. But one still can't get rid of the unpleasant feeling that the coalition has terrible problems, that it may ever try to accept a constructive amendment of the opposition. If there was anything else to fix this amendment, it could also be done further. But I strongly reject, my dear colleague Pavlišič, that we have whatever the valuers have here at the back, whatever. I strongly oppose the lobbyist ways of getting jobs when someone in some marriage is usurping some license, some right, and then they can do it because the law somehow provided him with the job. I strongly reject your allegations. No valuers were here at the back. If you remember, I warned myself on the committee that it would be very embarrassing if people had to call the valuers for every little thing like 50,000 euros – and you, as you said, fixed it yourself when you saw that this was nonsense. And my opinion is that the geodetic board should do this on official duty. And that's how we get into the situation, and now the embarrassment is a little bit smaller. But if someone who thinks that his property is too high, this person should know in advance how much he is being overrated. Because if you would then hire a valuer and appreciate that its value does not exceed 40%, you would practically throw this price away for the valuer. Sure, that's right. I object in principle, so I think that Gurs should do it on official duty. But the problem we face in assessing the value of real estate is far deeper than whether or not the valuer is doing it now. The problem is that the overall market value in Slovenia is fundamentally very different from the actual market value. The objective is to bring the general market value as close as possible to the actual market value. But in the situation that we are in when the real estate market in Slovenia does not work optimally, if it even works – something is sold and bought, but far from working optimally – these differences are extremely large. And now we are going to burden people with asking for their own real estate to be assessed in the way that it is supposed to be assessed. Wrong world. I think we should ensure the system in such a way that it is automatic. And, of course, what is a proposal for a change that someone can object to the general market value only if it is some specific circumstances that have reduced this market value, right. Let's say a house burns down or something terrible happens to it. But I want to know how this law saves. Because it does not solve one big problem — that is, if someone finds that the value of his house, which is in shape, by size, by construction, by quality, is very similar to that of his neighbor’s house, and according to Gurs, it is assessed quite differently. How is that supposed to happen? For in such a case, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, this pledge cannot do anything. He can't do anything! And that's the problem we have. Not to mention just two houses next door. The biggest problem is the same house in Primorskie and the same house in Styria, for example. There are enormous differences between them. They would probably have reached about the same price on the market. But the mass valuation of real estate has shown such and such a result. And about this result, the debtor or the owner of the property cannot complain about this value. This was our basic point of rebuttal, not to mention the complexity of this procedure, so that someone could complain. I am very interested in how this communication will take place between someone who will find that his property value has been overestimated. Let's take the case of Gurs and Durs and Durs getting back to Gurs, and Gurs doesn't know who. In short, it is such a complicated procedure that will be very long in time, but at that time we must all be aware that the complaint does not hold back enforcement and that the taxable person will have to pay. I wonder what will happen if there is actually a finding that the estimated value was too high. Who's responsible for this? I also drew attention to this in my introductory opinion or in the position of the Group of Members. This whole marriage is probably never gonna be perfect. But the problem we have with this law is its implementation. It's a mass property valuation exercise. Not that we have written down in the law to use such methods and methods and so forth. The way this has been done in recent years and for which Gurs was in charge has shown terrible results. A lot of things are wrong, and they need to be fixed. And only after these things have been corrected, respected colleagues and colleagues, would it seem understandable and reasonable to say that – look, the law on this part is still incomplete and needs to be corrected. Dear Mr Pavlišič, you have pointed out an important problem, but I hope that my principled position is clear as well. Everything the evaluators are about to do should be done by Gurs.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the Secretary of State who has joined us! I respect the opinion of the Secretary of State. A crower who said it in connection with the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 6. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State has not challenged my concern for the public interest, for the interests of the State. The interest of the State is to collect in a fair, fair and transparent way as many taxes as possible. And in this amendment, we advocate it. You will all remember that one of the colleagues showed when we discussed the Real Estate Tax Act, a photo of a villa – said to be owned by a judge – and that the villa was underrated. There is a place on the web portal where you can look at the value of each property. And I think that villa was rated at about 70 grand. And we all agreed that this was too low. The owner or owner will certainly not protest with Gurs or with Durs that its property value is too low. I respect that, especially Christian Democrats, we respect private property. It's a shrine, and I have no right to go to a nearby plot because it's a trespass, I can't park anywhere, I respect that. But whoever asks Gurs to determine the real value of the property will not require it anonymously. He will show his face, he will demand, and he will say: The same and that property on the one and that partial number in the cadastral congregation of this one and this one is underrated, let's say only 70,000 villas. I demand that a proper, accurate, real valuation be carried out. What's wrong?Oh, my God! I don't think they're gonna be at half a million, they won't. However, the interest of the State will be greater, it will be satisfied with the interest of the State, if it is professionally and realistically, I underline the real, real estate assessed and, consequently, a real tax applied. With regard to the procedures themselves, who pays for the procedure, who does not pay, we still have to figure it out. Colleagues and colleagues, I appeal to you if you really do not agree with the details of this amendment that we support the amendment, that Article 6 remains open and that then we all try together, the Government and the National Assembly, to define the text of Article 6. I simply do not hope to give up the interest of the State, i.e. the interest of citizens and citizens, so that it is more clearly understood. And we can't just walk through here. If, on the one hand, I can look at the value of property, any in Slovenia, and see that it is underestimated how to react as a responsible citizen. I have to announce somewhere that my assessment is that the property is undervalued and the state is undertaxed. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. God forbid. As a Member, I must defend the interests of citizens and citizens. And no one here is going to convince me otherwise. That is why we ask for the support of this amendment and, of course, we are still ready to participate in the improvement of Article 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Marka Pavlišič returned to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Yeah, it was kind of interesting on the board if I called it that, which is perfectly normal, if it's a law that we're adopting by emergency procedure. And certain changes need to be made in the country following an emergency procedure. It was a committee, I think, 14 or 13 days ago. And that's when I didn't tell you if that number was written too quickly on your side. I've been completely quiet about this, but today, more than a week after that, I find it hard to believe that there is anything else in the back here than the serious intention of getting a job and doing business for the valueholders. I don't know how you're gonna explain this. Maybe with negligence or something. You know how many days it's been since then, especially since you were on the board at the time pointing out exactly the 50,000 who were in the original bill, and then we explained to you that this has already risen to half a million. Now I'm really surprised that this SDS amendment found this here again. But that's hard to understand as a coincidence, no matter all the nice words you've said. And if I turn here again to that problem when we have two comparable houses very differently evaluated. If these two properties have the same parameters, the valuation will be the same. The reason why they are valued differently from the real estate valuation model – please correct me from the Ministry if I am wrong – can only be because they have different parameters. And if there is a reason for this, then these parameters can change under existing legislation and a proposal can be made to change these property parameters and then evaluation will be appropriate. The way the base base was built has also led to such mistakes. They probably need to be removed. We are absolutely in agreement here. But it is also probably clear to each of us what are the main three parameters for the value of a property. You know, you almost know it, but there's a lot of truth to it. The three main parameters for the property value are location, location and location. Here I refer to what you said, Mrs Tomcheva, that the same property in Styria or Primorska is very different. Sure. The market value is also very different. Some house in Primorske, in the center of Portorož, is indeed of a completely different market value than some comparatively large house in Styria, as you yourself said. Once again, I urge you to withdraw this amendment, because otherwise we will have to vote on it and explain our vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you. Romana Tomc has another word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u32	We are now slowly moving on to the essence of the problem, Mr Pavlisic. My point was, when I mentioned the house, I will not point out here concrete examples of houses that I also know from my immediate surroundings, neighbouring houses, comparable houses, equally quality houses built in the same period, not to say in the same year, indistinctly rated otherwise. Incomprehensible. So you're practically in the same location. I was talking about those cases, Mr Pavlisic, when, say, the house in Styria, which was sold yesterday, reached 150 000 euros of market value, someone sold it for 150 000 euros. And also yesterday, someone in Primorska sold the house for 150,000 euros. This is said to be the market value of these two houses. But when you look at their general market value in Gurs records, it's completely different – and that's the problem. This is the problem, because obviously these mass valuation models, I don't know them in detail, aren't adapted, they're not designed, or they haven't adapted to follow the real situation on the market, they're not. Therefore, there are so many different situations where two properties at different ends of Slovenia have the same market value and do not have the same general market value. That's the problem. Our intention has always been that someone who can find out that the house he was able to sell – well, now he has sold it, and probably no longer a problem – but sold it for 150 000 euros, but in Gurs records it is estimated to be 320, that someone can object to it and say listen, although my property is estimated by official records so much and so; but, respected government officials, I will sell it to you immediately for this money, and I will give it to you, as the market is not sold for that price. Pika. And it's not a problem of one house, one apartment, and one land, that's a general problem. And if that's a general problem, then it's no longer an individual's problem, but it's a state problem. That is why the state should make sure that it adapts its valuation methodology by following more effectively the market situation – that is the main problem. Well, not only that, our big problem is that this law does not provide enough legal certainty, but I will not discuss it in this context. In short, that's the point. We cannot object to our value, we can object to parameters, to methodology and to these inputs that determine the general market value. Your Honor, this is a very hard job, and I don't think anyone will be very successful at this, I don't believe. However, if it was possible to object to the actual market value proven by appreciation – let the appreciater come, if we are already talking about the value holders, someone calls him, says, but you know what, I think my property is overrated. He calls the appreciater, the court-martialed one you want, the international one, even two can call to make no distinction, and both will assess that his property value is not actually the same as it is according to Gurs. And what can this person do? Nothing, nothing. Or you can. He can complain that the methodology used by Gurs to assess his property is not good. And once Durs changes his methodology, different data will come out of this. And only when the other information comes in will the case be resolved. But appreciation on the one hand, Gurs's value on the other hand – no option to hold the value and value of the value. Gurs persists, right or wrong, Gurs persists and that's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvat also wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u34	Of course, it is wrong to leave the value of Gurs behind because it is not said to be absolutely correct. I would only like the representatives of the Government to be once again and definitively defined by our amendment. Before that, I ask all of us, colleagues and colleagues, whether we want responsible and active citizenship in this country. If the answer is no, if we do not want and support responsible and active citizenship, then we withdraw this amendment if most are for it. Probably not, but we probably want responsible citizens as well as active citizens. Active are those who also watch the E-space web portal or something else and find that some property is severely undervalued. A responsible citizen must defend the interests of the state, i.e. the interests of citizens and citizens. And it must initiate a procedure for the geodetic administration to determine the real value of a property. The villa we saw last November in the photograph and found that it was badly undervalued, this amendment speaks of. We are prepared to adapt this amendment to the third reading if the government considers that the procedures are not exactly defined. While we think at this stage that they are, here is the fact that the country will survive more and that the taxes are, that the tax burdens are more fairly distributed. And we're up for it, but aren't we? That's why I'd like a response from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you. Mrs. Romana Tomc wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I'd like to point out one more thing. I hope that when someone looks at us, maybe they'll understand better where the problem is, that's my purpose now. In principle, the same tax base should apply to one thing in all tax procedures, but in this case this is not the case. If I go back to that house that sold. This house, which is sold, has a property tax, that is to say, that tax, will certainly be known to people, 2% of the tax we pay when we sell the property can be of a different value, a different tax base than it has for the purposes of taxation of property. When this house is taxed as a property, as a property with a property tax, the basis of the general market value — the one determined by Gurs — applies. When this house is actually sold, 2 % is paid from the sale price. And this sales price can Durs – you probably already had such an experience when you come to the tax office, Durs says, and we disagree with that value. And then the debtor transfers the appreciation and by appreciation proves what the actual value of the sale is. This apartment, this house, the same property, has two different bases for taxation in this country — but for two different taxes. He may have the same, but only by accident. I'll tell you that these cases will be very few. But if we make this a little bit more complicated, there's another tax on it. If you sell the property before the deadline, the capital profit tax shall also be determined. If you've made some profit while you've acquired real estate, and now that you're selling real estate, if the value has grown, you'll pay the capital profit tax. Well, what value will be taken into account here? Third. It's perfect chaos. And also for these reasons, because it should be taken into account for one property of the same value, let it be called the general market, whatever, it would be right to be a real market value, because the only one is real. As long as that's not the case, there's gonna be a lot of confusion here. While there will be great confusion, I think there will be great injustice, unfair taxation. I also told the committee that instead of general market value they could use the name or term book value. Since this is nothing more than a bookkeeping situation that companies have in their balance sheets, they make revaluation adjustments every so long when they find that the price or value does not correspond. It's the same here. This is not a general market value, it is simply a book value. No matter what happens today, I believe today that the coalition will overtake our amendment, which usually happens – or not normally, always happens. So that's what's gonna happen today. No matter what fate this law will experience, which I believe it will be passed. It is now four minutes past 12: 00 p.m., and it is just in the Constitutional Court that they find out what it is like to have a real estate tax. Regardless of all this, dear fellows and colleagues, let us sit down for once, think smartly, make good analyses and, on the basis of this, adopt appropriate legislation. And I have also accepted some well-intentioned proposal from the opposition, and we will have better legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you. He wanted the word before the Secretary of State. Mitya Mavko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Because Mr Horvath's outstanding question was about active citizenship. Our view is that the value of real estate can be – and we believe that the law rightly refers to it – be affected by those who have a legal interest. This is the owner or taxable person who is liable to pay the tax. However, anyone can be affected by the input data relating to a property. It may be a congregation, it may be a neighbour, it may be a third person who has the right to report that the input data relating to a property are actually different from those led by Gurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you, mag. An answer pencil. But I would really like you, Mr Secretary of State, to simulate how, for example, the municipality can now influence the input of a property that it considers to be undervalued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u41	I give the word "magic." Mitji Mavka.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u42	Yes, very simply, Article 100 of the Real Estate Registration Act defines how input data can be changed. And that's the task of the geodetic board to check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you. Joseph Horvath also wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u44	It's important stuff. Can you tell us exactly what input data are, because the public accompanying us doesn't understand that, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u45	Mr Mitja Mavko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you. All data kept in the real estate register are input data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u47	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I had to call because I thought the debate was extremely interesting. I think that we, as members of the National Assembly or Members and the Government, must be aware or advocated of the country's fair value of real estate in any way, only that this value is fair. It is therefore necessary to allow this value to be achieved in different ways by the individual who tries to enforce it further, or by the State because it is interested in having the right data. The market value or income value, or any other method already used in any real estate, shall no longer be applied to the cost method, i.e. the actual cost of the facility at the time of construction or renewal. Since this is no longer an interesting information in our market times, it is no longer a meridian. But this value is for exactly the same property, so that there is no uncertainty here, for exactly the same property at different ends of Slovenia can be different. That's clear. However, for the same market value at two different ends of Slovenia, though the property is different, in any way a certain value of the property must be assessed equal. And we need to be aware that this is a variable data, that the time component also changes this data. I don't know, data from the year – I'll just make it up – from 2007 cannot be the same as data for 2015, because market conditions are significantly different. I therefore advocate that there must be a mechanism whereby these values can also be proved. Either one side or the other. Now I'm going to go in general, it's a little awkward to discuss these things in a broad way when there is a presentation of the Constitutional Court's opinion on the same subject across the road. I think it would have been significantly better what we were trying to achieve at the beginning of the week, two days ago, that this debate would have taken place more than another week on Tuesday, when these results would have been known. With my bad intentions, but the basis for the debate would certainly be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Joseph Horvat has the floor again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u50	I'm sorry, I really have very good intentions. First of all, I'll continue where my colleague, Jakob Presecnik, has finished. News has just been published on the RTV Slovenia website that the Constitutional Court has repealed the real estate law. But that doesn't mean our homework is over. On the contrary! We have all received together, colleagues and colleagues, a correctional examination that we must take in the interests of this country, in the interests of citizens and citizens. Yes, Mr Secretary of State, you were talking about the input data, but the input data and paragraph 100. I think you mentioned the Real Estate Registration Act, something like that, that's what it's called. We have today on the table the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate. It is therefore indeed crucial that the tax be applied to an exact tax base. I apologize to everyone, I'm not going to hurt anyone, but here I'm going to say what I'm following in the media, where they've already published certain properties, villas, towns, castles and so on that people have created. Thank God we have them, but thank God if they've created this in a fair, fair way, with their own work and knowledge. My feeling is that those owners who are closer to this government are property with high real value, but that they are underrated. That's my feeling. Once again, I apologize for spreading my feelings here, but these are facts. And I am really asking for support for Article 6 and in the third reading, we can all make improvements together if necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u52	Your Honor! As I announced yesterday, today, at the constitutional level, a complete mistrust was expressed to the government of Alenka Bratušek. This decision is even more important because it has been adopted unanimously for all those seeking such or other political backgrounds [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u53	But, Mr Grimes, with all due respect, we're here for this amendment. And the confidence of the government and these matters cannot be discussed under this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u54	Dear Mr. Weber! You too will have to face it responsibly and seriously, for this matter is now extremely important. It is also important because of what we are dealing with today, as it relates directly to it. I think it would be time now to take the time to think, to confirm the amendments made by the opposition in this case, and to put things on a completely different footing than they were. For all the suddenness on the nose of his confidant, forced by Alenka Bratušek as Prime Minister of the Government, now turns out to be unconstitutional, unconstitutionally unconstitutional. And here the question of everything we've been talking about in the last few days is being raised and it's directly about this law and exactly this amendment, Mr Weber. The question of the reality of these valuations that have been made, the question of whether we can watch fairies – I myself know a few such cases, say in Bled – estimated at 150 or 200 000 euros after these prices; now they are sold for three million and a half euros. On the other hand, I know a 150-year-old house somewhere among the towers in a city that I don't believe someone would give 200 000 euros at this point, which is estimated at 450 000 euros. And something's really wrong. And this time, this break, which has now been allowed by the Constitutional Court's judgment, should be taken for these things to be completely new. To confirm today those amendments that the opposition has also tabled – I think that the coalition could show its mind in this way today, including its respect for the Constitutional Court's judgment. After all, yesterday we warned how insatiable it was to rush into amending the Real Estate Tax Act just before the Constitutional Court's judgment. That's not all we've been alerting. If we just looked at the website, Dr. Kersevan, a professor of constitutional law, talked about it, and someone else. And today the same topic is being reopened – a topic that is politically relevant at this point in time so that it can no longer be. After the timetable, however, it is no longer so important, as it is now the fact that in due course, at least this year, this tax will be on. Which means it is time for these things to be settled again and to establish what should be the foundation of every legal act, for the right comes from the word righteousness. And nothing about these valuations and nothing about the real estate tax met this fundamental requirement — righteousness. Justice is a value. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, at least confirm those amendments, at least today, which the opposition has made.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Osterman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, anyway, it's decided now. Let me say that the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate entered into force in 2006. In 2010, property values in the field began to be described and done by people who were incompetent for this profession, students, in short, people who did not have the necessary skills to assess the correct value of real estate; but were evaluated according to the comments of the real estate owners. We do know, however, that if the real estate owners wanted to sell the property during that period, they indicated a higher amount of property and also different characteristics of the property. However, if they did not wish to sell and pay a lower remuneration for the use of the building land during that period, they indicated a lower value of the property. I would not support this amendment in any way, and I will not support it either, because we have been coalitionly united that the property value that the owner of the property needs is 500 000 euros. In this case, we can say that we have saved the property owner the price of the valuer. However, this is taken into account in specific circumstances when the value of the property changes. However, if certain characteristics are wrongly stated, they are not mentioned because of the introduction of this tax, but because of incorrect data since 2010, the owner of the property can change this data himself, for example, if it is isolation or plumbing, of course with the relevant evidence. Let me also say that only the informational calculation of properties has been sent and that on Gurs for 14 days they update the real estate data that are visible on the Gursa website. And each individual can personally check them on Gurs or the administrative unit. Like I said, I can't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Grill wanted the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. See, since the Constitutional Court has repealed the law or property tax, it would be wise and, of course, also for the country of Slovenia, and especially for all owners of the property, to make this law, which we are now changing, so that it will be as correct and fair as possible. There are also laws, they must be where it would make sense to reach agreement on the position and opposition. There's no reason for us here to "shoot each other" in any way. There are certain themes that have an ideological foregleam where we know that politics differ, and there is perhaps understanding. But this Law on Mass Valuation is a completely technical law and there is no reason for any kind of commitment to be recorded in the Coalition Treaty. Let him be such that he reflects the actual state of affairs. And many of the stupidities that have proved to be, after this law has been implemented in practice, have also tried to eliminate this change now, but unfortunately by the opposition we keep reminding you that these nonsensees are still present and will not be eliminated. And so I ask you and I urge you to take the time, give here our amendments, the good-intentioned ones, which are, to accept that the articles are open and that until the next treatment, the matter can also be corrected, because for a quick decision, then certain decisions can prove to be pointless and even do not achieve the result as it is. And I fear that this law can also be ended, perhaps a complaint or an initiative in the Constitutional Court, that it will even be repealed there. For as many irregularities as have been present in this law, we rarely meet them. And it is true that this law was passed in 2007 and that that first IT calculation was proven to be very confusing; and all the time it was alerted to what irregularities are here. But at that time, it was too little or almost nothing for all these irregularities to be resolved. Therefore, once again, let us work together to find solutions so that in the end this law will have as much unanimous decision as it does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you, too. The word has been cancelled. [[…]] So I give my word to Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you. Perhaps this is the time for everyone to ask themselves together what we are really doing, because the whole thing started when the Constitutional Court found that unconstitutional collection was a compensation for the use of building land and imposed on the State to arrange it in a different way. That is why the Property Evaluation Act was adopted at the time and the amendments to this Law. A colleague of Osterman's said that in 2010 a census was launched on the basis of this law, which is true, but the Borut Pahor's government changed the law in 2011 precisely in these points where it is now said that it is unconstitutional. For the Constitutional Court also says of this law that it is unconstitutional. The Constitutional Judges should probably also suggest what we should do, because obviously everything we do seems unconstitutional. The story has a long beard, and maybe we're dealing with things the wrong way. However, if the Property Valuation Act was wrong or what we now find, this government should first correct this law and regulate it before it went into the Real Estate Tax Act, which is the adoption of the Real Estate Tax Act, and not that we are doing it now, post-Festum, and we are correcting something that has proved to be a problem in the process of another law. This points to what some colleagues have already said that the government has only gone to law to fill the budget to close the budget; not to try to settle matters. And before that, the president said we wouldn't talk about the government's confidant or non-trust. I think that's exactly what we need to talk about, because the thing wasn't ready as it should be. And if we had looked at all these things earlier, as we should, and listened to warnings, including us and the professional public, we probably wouldn't be in such a situation today. But if you go to the front door, then what happens is what someone on Twitter wrote yesterday is obviously a government plane going to crash into a wall. The Prime Minister says she saved him from falling down, but now she's obviously run into a wall, and that's what she missed. I will support our amendment, although the law will probably have to be completely new – or we will have to agree on what we will do.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he wants the word "magic." Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u62	Sir, if there is no gesture of good will, then I think that the coalition should, at least until the evening vote, weigh very well, or at all continue anything in this area, because, as it now appears, it is likely that the whole matter will have to be removed from the beginning. And then the big question is what's constitutionally correct and what's wrong. Since we do not yet have the judgments of the Constitutional Court in writing at this time, we have only reports coming live through the media. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Romana Tomc also wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much again. We are somehow reacting to what is happening in the Constitutional Court, which can be monitored, including this decision of the Constitutional Court by the media, so I would warn you at this point or also tell you what was the reason or one of the reasons. The real estate law is supposed to be contrary to the Constitution in the work that provides for the complaint, even in this work, probably elsewhere. That's exactly what we're warning through. And since the appeal is in some way regulated in this law, the Constitutional Court also questions the constitutionality of this law, that is the law that we are considering today — the mass valuation of property; the work relating to the complaint. And that's what we say through, all the time. And please, look, stop already. Stop it once, this arrogance is enough, and that's enough of this non-cooperation, and that's enough of this scheming. That's not just what the non-defendant opposition is saying right now, but, look, that's what the Constitutional Court ruled. And I think it's really time for us to end it. I think that this debate, now, right now, about this law, is really a farce.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Period of the day, it's a proposal for a law on Slovenian state holding in another defense. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Mitja Mavko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. As mentioned above, you have before you a second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding, which, in the meantime, deals with amendments to 38 new articles from the first reading, based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on 15 articles. The amendments adopted shall interfere with the objective of centralising the management of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia and the provisions relating to the competence of SDH to manage the capital investments of Kad, the Capital Company. In accordance with the proposal of the new 50.00th Article, Kad makes his own investments independently and independently, and the availability and exercise of voting rights in companies with the capital investment of the State on behalf of and on behalf of Kad implements SDH. In view of the concept of centralisation of investment management, such a solution is acceptable and also meaningful in terms of the commitments adopted by the National Assembly in the context of the treatment of pension reform, namely the creation of a demographic reserve fund which has the same purpose as a capital company. The new Article 76 of the Law thus provides that Kad will be transformed into a demographic reserve fund by the end of 2015. The law also maintains the obligation that Kad will provide EUR 50 million to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance every year. The other amendments that have been tabled set out more precisely the individual investment management procedures, as regards SDH authorities, as regards management acts, with a view to enhancing business transparency. They shall also extend the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors for events prior to the implementation of SDH. In the end, I would like to touch on some of the amendments tabled in relation to this meeting of the National Assembly. The government notes that out of 17 amendments, the majority or 13 are of the same substance amendments that were already decided by the mother’s working body. In view of this, the Government would propose to the National Assembly if the conditions of business are met to carry out the third examination of the law at this same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 25th session, 11. 3. In 2014, the draft law on the Slovenian State Holding Act, second reading, EPA 1640-VI, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on the 55 articles of the proposed amendment. The opinion of the Council of State of 26 was also forwarded. 2. which supports the proposal of the law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Article 41 of the Law; the SD Group to Article 39 of the Law and the SDS Group to Article 33 of the Law and the DeSUS Group to Article 83 of the Law. At the meeting, members and members of the Committee were also invited to submit proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, which were adopted by the Committee at its 41st and 83rd sessions. In the introductory explanation, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance explained the objective of the proposal and the main solutions of the proposed law. In addition, he stressed that the key objective of centralisation is to manage transparently all state-owned investments, to achieve more stable ownership, to reduce management costs and to increase the return on investments while reducing the impact of stakeholders, political groups and corruption risks; and briefly presented the content of the amendments submitted. In the debate, the members highlighted the need for the Committee to define the strategy as one of the most important documents for the management of state property in a timely manner. Some also stressed the important role of worker participation in management. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has adopted amendments to article 40 of the Act. However, the Committee did not adopt the 28 amendments of the SDS Group. But four of them became irrelevant. Nor did the Committee adopt the amendment of Article 39 of the SD Group to Article 39, and the amendment of Article 83 of the DeSUS Group was withdrawn. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Following the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at the proposal of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, adopted the amendment to Article 41 and the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 83. The Committee then voted on and adopted all articles of the proposal in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Such a law is proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Since the 21st meeting held a general debate on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 27 March 2014. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Would anyone like to discuss the amendment tabled? He does. I give my word to Mr. Jacob the President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be brief. In these amendments to the SDH Act, as is known, it will no longer be the owner of state investments, but will only manage the investments of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in our opinion, if SDH is to manage the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, it is correct that, after prior regulation of the situation between, as stated in Article 27(2), between SDH and the Republic of Slovenia, a contract concluded by the Government on a proposal from the Minister responsible for finance. We propose and think that this is certainly the right thing for the Government to do after prior confirmation in the National Assembly. And by the decision of the National Assembly, the Government will be empowered to conclude this treaty. That is essentially the short sense of our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State mag. Monkey! We have always troubled and pointed out that we have the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was adopted and enforced at the end of 2012, and that this government does not implement it. All right, this country or this government has set itself some concept of state property management, as much as it is still worth. And we kind of accept that. The title of the law is already somewhat unfortunate – the Slovenian State Holding Act, because it is not actually a holding company. Anyone who has graduated from a high economic school knows and knows the definition of holding. But let's just say that we don't trouble it indefinitely, and we accept it. It is likely that the Slovenian State Holding Act will soon be in force and it is a time limit. Because the biggest problem is that we do not have a uniform, uniform management of state property. How single this management is now going to be, again, is another issue. If this government is serious about managing state property, then it must take the time out, the entire coalition, I stress the entire coalition, which currently has the greatest responsibility for the management of state property, and ask itself who these people are to sit in the key positions that will be most responsible for the management of state property or the Slovenian State Holding. According to our belief of Christian Democrats – New Slovenia would be good for the country and also for this coalition if we once gathered this courage and rust and said that we will all decide that the Slovenian state holding company will be managed by foreign and best managers in the world. The best managers in the world! Those who have nothing to do with the day-to-day social policy developments in this country. If it's again some people who have been on, I don't know, on the Court, on Kadu or today, it's only going to be some transfer, then believe me, there's not going to be any extraction from this Slovenian state holding company. We have several well-known institutions in the world with names that the world economy knows and is valued at the level of the global economy. Why do we favor foreign experts? Also because, as we say, they mean something in the global economy, they enjoy reputation, they are trustworthy, and that is crucial. Because they are trustworthy and because, if managed in our own way, they would have key positions in the Slovenian State Holding, they would be able to gain foreign investors on the basis of trust. Because they're not here today. We all want them so badly. Why won't they come to us already? Why is that? I think it would be a good thought, first of all government, then coalition to think about it. I know that the discussions on this relationship are already under way, that is, discussions on the idea that foreign - and I say again - the best managers in the world manage the Slovenian state holding company, that these topics, as far as I know, have already been discussed in government circles within the Bank of Slovenia. As far as I know, even President Alenka Bratusek is somehow leaning towards this solution. Now it is only a question of how the prime minister, who has the greatest political power in this country, will manage to reconcile these ideas within the coalition. Because if it's any different, then the next day I hope to tell myself publicly that this state holding company will be nothing, it won't be nothing. Today we only get some change from this state property into the state budget. It is not effective, there is no corporate governance and there is no interest. Doesn't seem to be of any interest. However, when hired by the best managers — managers are actually busier workers — they are in a business relationship with the owner or with the control council more precisely. And we could look for them through the invitations to the most prominent newspapers. That's a crucial thought. Of course, we all say that the human factor is the most important factor. We can also write such a good law and it will not be effective, it will not be implemented, it will not produce results for taxpayers, citizens and citizens if they are not the right people in the right place. Let's put the right people in the right place, ladies and gentlemen. Nor will we get a headache if, based on the results, I underline — based on the results, these managers receive good wages or rewards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 27 and the amendment tabled? He does not want to, so I am closing the debate on Article 27. We are moving and putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He does. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u74	Yes, Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to Article 28, assessing that the State Property Management Strategy is probably the most important document. A document from which, in fact, management will also be based, with which both the professional public and the general public will be informed of what is planned for the management of state assets, which, of course, has not been effective so far. We propose to add two indents and that the public property management strategy also contain an investment management policy and a corporate governance code for companies with a country's capital investment. Above all, we think it is important to have an investment management policy. From this I think the matter would become more transparent. However, since Article 31 of the Slovenian State Holding Act also contains an article and a substantive task of investment management policy, I think there should be no difficulty in supporting this proposal by the coalition Members. I think that this would give us an even better document and narrow down the risk of irregularity; or that this privatisation, which is, at least, judged by the Slovenian Democratic Party, would take place in a more transparent manner. Of course, I might also say at this introduction that we regret that none of the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Committee on Finance have been adopted. I am convinced that most of the amendments already tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Committee would contribute to a better law and, above all, to better governance of state property. Maybe a little more on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 28? If he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. And we're moving on to the 31st. I am putting to the debate this article and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He does. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u76	Chairman, thank you. Here it goes only now that we are a management policy to prepare at the latest within one month of the appointment of the Supervisory Board. I think that this is important and also falls within the context of the strategy. We expect members of the coalition or Members of the National Assembly to confirm such a proposal. However, I could also here challenge the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance if he gives his opinion both in Article 28 and Article 31, whether this article for the Government or for the Ministry of Finance is disturbing; or they estimate that it would make sense to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Mitya Mavko has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you so much for asking. The previous amendment to Article 28 of the Law, in our view, goes beyond the purpose of Article 28 of the Law. The strategy, as proposed by law, should contain the classification of the investments themselves under this Act and define the strategy for investments where the State Assembly will define the individual investment as a strategic investment and the objectives to be achieved by the Republic of Slovenia in relation to each investment separately. This document is additionally burdened by some procedures that are much more internal in nature, either from the Code or from the Investment Policy, in our view would be excessive. Both documents set out in a much more detailed way how SDH should operate internally in its own management or how SDH should deal with companies in its portfolio. In our view, it is not appropriate to burden a comprehensive investment management strategy. Proposal for an amendment to Article 31, which would require that investment management policy be adopted not later than one month after the appointment of the Supervisory Board – in our view this is a relatively short period of time. We would rather let society accept this in a way and within deadlines that will make sense from their point of view to ensuring an effective investment management policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss article 31 and the amendment tabled? No, no, no. So I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 40 and the amendment tabled by the SLS Group of Ambassadors and the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He does. Magus first. Marko Pogačnik, followed by Mr. Jakob the Presester. Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u80	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Article 40 of the Slovenian State Holding Act refers to the Supervisory Board. According to the proposal we have on the table, we can assess that the government of Alenka Bratušek has actually privatised this holding and state property by proposing that the government appoints the five-member supervisory council itself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to point out that we know that the government is responsible for state property, but that state property is certainly not owned by the government and we estimate that it would be correct for the government or Members of the ruling coalitions to support this proposal. Our proposal is that the Supervisory Board should have six members, of which four members would be proposed by the Government and two would be proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. Of course, these so-called opposition Members should meet the same conditions as the other members of the Supervisory Council, so that they cannot talk about political influence here; only in order to be quality control and that this would actually be the property of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, we would like to point out that the existing Slovenian State Holding Act has been aligned with the opposition that the opposition has one representative in the supervisory council. In doing so, I would also like to point out that, at the time, when adopting this law, the Positive Slovenia has submitted referendum signatures. One of the demands of the current Prime Minister, who then participated in the working group, was that the opposition had three members in the supervisory council, despite having one. Now it is the proposal of the government, the Ministry of Finance and Coalition, that the Supervisory Board consists of only a government with five members. I think that clearly speaks of the duality of the current coalition. I think surveillance should also have the opposition. And it seems right to me that this city was offered by our previous government. We're re-emphasizing. This is not about political influence or any other influence, as these members proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances will have to meet the same conditions as the other members of the Supervisory Board. And I'd like to point it out again. The government is responsible for the management of state property, but it is not government property. I think it would be right for you to support our amendment today, because I think it is in the interest of everyone here in the National Assembly that this property is managed effectively, transparent. And of course we're aware of that. The government is responsible, so the government must also have a majority in the supervisory council; and in this composition the government will still have a majority in the supervisory council and will be able to make any decision that these two representatives will not have an impact on. However, due to hygiene and relations, I believe that this proposal needs to be supported. Unfortunately, this proposal was not supported on the Committee. I think today is a new opportunity when you can do it. And I'd like to ask the Secretary of State for an opinion. Why did you so sovereignly reject our proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Mitya Mavko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. We certainly agree that some form of control by the National Assembly is appropriate. That some form of cooperation is also appropriate for the opposition. That is why, in section 41 of the draft law, we introduce a proposal for a solution whereby, as at the Supervisory Board meeting, the Minister of Finance in the role of observer, is also invited by the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. Why do we not want to sanction this through article 40 of the bill? In our view, Article 40 sets up a system of selection of SDH supervisory boards very robustly. It lays down rules and lays down the conditions to be met by an individual candidate individually and also how it should be composed of a supervisory board as a collective body. Therefore, it is not enough that only an individual meets the criteria, it is important that representatives of the supervisory board complement each other collectively. At the same time, a very transparent procedure for proposing candidates and a written obligation, if any, to deviate from this procedure, is in place. In the opinion of the Government, the relevant commitment of the Commission of the National Finance Supervisory Board is ensured through Article 41 of the bill, which allows the President of the Commission to be invited to the meetings of the Supervisory Board and at the same time to receive all the materials that the Supervisory Board receives for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. You have a replica, mag. Marco Pogačnik? Do you still want to discuss it? It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I think the answer from the Secretary of State was inconclusive. You refer to the following article that the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances may be present at a meeting of the Supervisory Board, but you have forgotten to mention that without voting rights. What happens if he doesn't have the right to vote? Just so he knows the paper. This can probably be written, as President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, by a single letter, to present documents and must receive them or convene a meeting on a specific subject. I think it's irresponsible and unhygienic that the government really subjugates and privatises state property in this way. Once again, the property is not owned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible. You have also said that it is necessary to view the Supervisory Board as a whole, not just individually. Of course, the Commission can ensure that it is also fully competent, whether it has legal knowledge, whether it has financial knowledge, or whether it will have economic knowledge where it is needed. I think this proves once again the duality of the coalition you've been carrying out all along. I would point out once again that in order to withdraw the referendum signatures, despite the fact that the opposition had one representative in the supervisory council at the time, you requested a positive Slovenia or the current Prime Minister of the Government to have three members. Why is it so difficult for you to give one or two members of the opposition in this supervisory world? This is the property of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's not government property. What do you want to hide? So I'm going to ask, what do you want to hide with this? What is the purpose of this government in this privatisation?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u85	Here you go, mag. The bait.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Question is, what do we want to hide? We do not want to hide anything, so there is also an invitation for the President of the Commission to oversee public finances. The explanation of the proposed amendment states: it is important that the opposition has a representative in the supervisory council. The President of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission will be able to participate in all meetings of the Supervisory Board, will have all the materials available and will be able to exercise full democratic control over the management of SDH. In our view, the role of the opposition in the SDH supervisory council is also enabled in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. You have a replica, mag. It's a cakemaker. Otherwise, Mr Jakob Preseknik has been announced for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u88	Yes, thank you very much for your word. This exchange has already been going on, I mean, it's already been done. Otherwise, since our amendment is very similar to the amendment of colleagues from the SDS Group. It is only different that we have proposed in this proposal a member appointed by the National Assembly, namely a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Commission for budgetary control; the colleagues propose two. Well, of course it's not a significant difference. It is simply to enforce some principle of effective management of state property, or to say, to extend this effective management to the expression of fair management of state property; therefore, of course, we are interested in all citizens and all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Already, when the basic law was adopted – I think it was September 2012, that is, a year and a half ago – there was a similar discussion, only on the other hand, where in the then opposition you advocated that the National Assembly should have a greater word when appointing these people. Under the basic law, of course, this composition of the Supervisory Council is different. Now you have made a change, to the constituent supervisory board with the candidates – I think I understand – appointed by the government on a proposal from the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance. It is true that there are the necessary professional competences and so on. It says, I think, in paragraph 5, that if the members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the Government, not on the proposal of the Minister of Finance, it is necessary to make this public and so on. However, I do not understand why, in all this debate, we all defend ourselves together that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Commission for the supervision of public finances, appoints one of its own, who can directly influence the decisions of the Supervisory Board by one vote. Surely this is much more than you said, Mr Secretary of State than the President of the Commission sitting or being invited to a meeting of the Supervisory Board. Because of the fact that these two amendments of colleagues from the SDS and our amendment are very similar, as far as we are concerned, we have no problems with any of them, or do you accept – especially in the coalition – one or the other. Of course, we have no problem with this, but I really urge that we accept one of these two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u90	Yes, Madam President, thank you for your word! I personally cannot agree with this explanation given by the Secretary of State. I think it's a certain deceiving to have the same powers as all the other members of the Supervisory Board. That's not true. Whether this member or chairman of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission may also be a member of the Supervisory Boards, such as the Audit Board, such as the Risks Commission, such as the Personnel Committee. That's what I'm interested in. If you say he's on the same page, only he doesn't have voting rights, and he'll have the same control. He won't. And I'm sure he won't be able to be a member of these committees. You've been covering up a certain part of this. And it won't be transparent. Tell him whether he can attend or will be a member of these committees — he will not be invited only to these meetings. And I really don't know why. I don't think he's going to have the authority to propose, let's say some specific documentation is reviewed, an additional one that's not on the agenda. He will only have an insight into matters on the agenda of the Supervisory Board. But he won't have any other powers. And I think this is wrong, fellow Members of the SD, Positive Slovenia, DeSUS and the National List. Let us be aware that this is the property of the State and that this supervisory function is the most important. And give this opportunity proposed by the SDS or the Slovenian People's Party. Be right! In the current, still valid Slovenian State Holding Act, this possibility exists. At that time, the current Prime Minister of the Government demanded three to withdraw the referendum signatures, despite the fact that there was already one representative of the opposition in the supervisory council.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u91	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor, followed by Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'd say it's not true, but it's true. Despite the fact that this coalition has brought the country before a complete crash, it is working on the laws that the Constitutional Court must abolish in front of it, yet we are witnessing an incredible arrogant, free-standing end to all control over the management of state property and state finances. Hiding everything from the citizens! Hiding archives, hiding bank maps, hiding thieves and bank robbers! And now that you have a plan to re-sell state property in the Slovenian State Holding, you are abolishing the opposition representative in the Supervisory Council. That's outrageous! And here we have to literally call on our citizens to prevent this country from being robbed in all areas by the current coalition. They just don't give a shit what's left of the country's looting on sale. It is probably planned to sell the assets of the Slovenian state holding company in the way Mr. Weber once reported that this is treason, and you are making this happen! At that time, the left hand option came in her head, and he said what was in her head, what was now on the paper. You're wasting your country at every turn! Last night, we took a decision to call for a referendum. You have freely decided to throw away more than 2 million money because you do not want to join the European elections. Here too, you must be forced by the citizens [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u93	Mr Jerovšek, please focus on Article 40 and the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u94	Yeah, it's control, control of state property and state money. You're shutting down all surveillance! You're preventing all surveillance! You're reducing the standards that have been in force so far. The predatory instinct inside the coalition got wings. Those who now have money in their tax havens want to buy it for change and make citizens for the oppressed who will serve and work for your feudals as oppressed. Already, many work as oppressors. You've already created 130 thousand unemployed, no prospects. But from the state budget, money is deliberately looted. Also with yesterday's call for a referendum on such a day as to take a direct 2.5 million. And that's what the coalition had in mind. Unheard of! That is why we need to communicate primarily with citizens and voters and bring them to their senses. State television and the media don't keep them informed. Yesterday's reports – the coalition reduced the tax, but they record nowhere, mainly that the opposition has pointed out that the economy needs to be protected, that the countryside needs to be protected, that they can't just introduce it. Today you received a lesson from the Constitutional Court. A lesson that is identical to what the opposition said. And you don't care about any lesson because the country is stolen from the inside, from this coalition. This robbery drive, which has also been reflected in this proposal, how state-owned holding should be monitored, is something terrible for the future of new generations. You're putting people, a young generation in a totally unsuspecting position. No relation to future generations, to the young generation so far, to educated people. The predatory at every turn. Be aware once and let the people know and say, "I'm accusing you!" By Zolah; but those who continue to do so must be brought to justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the procedure. But you signed up for the debate. To the debate. Now the Secretary of State, Mag, has asked for the floor. Mitya Mavko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I think that Mr Jerovska's debate calls for a reaction and a deep disagreement between the Government as a bill-maker. For the first time, as regards the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding and the criteria to be met by candidates for members of the Supervisory Board, these are more stringent in the new proposal of the law than those in the applicable law. First time, individually. Secondly, control over the Slovenian State Holding is also available to the opposition through the cooperation of the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances at all meetings of the Supervisory Board and the possibility that all materials, invitations to meetings, agendas and the like will be available. Therefore, the fact that we want to exclude the opposition from control of the Slovenian state holding company is not true. Third. The supervision of the Slovenian State Holding is also strengthened through the competences of other institutions, independent institutions over the Slovenian State Holding. In particular, the powers of the Commission to prevent corruption and the Court of Auditors, whose competence is extended in comparison with the existing law, should be highlighted here. And the fourth time. Very important. Strengthening the entire chapter on anti-corruption, conflict of interest and the like. Here we introduce a completely new chapter into the law – a chapter that the Commission warmly welcomes to prevent corruption, and you are proposing that it be removed from the law with an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u98	Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know, I know you better, but I think you're a very credible man, and that's the impression you've made. Of course, here you must defend what is the official policy of this coalition. I must tell you that these reasons for strengthening control under the new law do not stand. You had to use them, but they're totally useless and they don't last. In this way, the Bank of Slovenia and the Bank have convinced us all these past years how regulators and controls work; 11 billion holes have been accumulated. Mr. Kuntarič and the management have divided 240 thousand annual prizes. That's surveillance? And now it's gonna get worse. And please, not only will the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances go to meetings, he had the right. He can't and can't. He has the right to go to Banka Slovenije and he can't go there either. It must be someone who will deal with these predatory desires of the administration set by this left coalition. It's all "painted" forward to do so, so that all of this will be expunged under such conditions. These arguments, which have been cited, do not stand for serious scrutiny and criticism. If you would tell me which lady wrote this law, then you would know exactly how the whole network was set up. I think she's some lady who's been writing these economic laws all these years. I guess. Otherwise, the same technology is used. And with these arguments that this plan will work, please let's be tasty, let's have some hygiene – this way control will not work. We already know this, such control will allow predatory privatisation into the hands of oligarchs, tycoons who have state money in these tax havens and want this money that is stolen, state property to buy for one euro. We're not doing this anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. You have a replica of the mag. Marco Pogačnik? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u100	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, I've respected you extremely professionally so far, but today I have a feeling that you have fallen under the influence of the current coalition completely. Immortality and double criteria. Why are you deceiving me? Can you tell me which condition for a member of the Supervisory Board in the proposed law is more acute than it was in the present? Because you mentioned it. I went to look at these two marriages, and I don't see that there would be any more acute conditions on the professional salary. You have even reduced your education – from university to Bologna and this. And even if you explain what powers the Court of Auditors has on your proposal are greater than it has under the existing law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor to prepare the mags behind him. Katarina Hotchevar, Mr. Joseph Kavticnik. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much. In view of what happened an hour and 15 minutes ago, one would expect a coalition — even because of the action that took place today — it is clear that its life span is running out, that the funeral wreaths are said to have already been ordered — to think more about it in a way that would be more nationalistic, but that for a holding company that would control and manage the state property that remains, the opposition would have a word in it. It's not your decision-making power, you can't make it anyway. It's your word. The vast majority of the parties, of course, are already a political history, and some of those who will remain would have a place in the opposition or else I will say, if we change roles very quickly, alone as a coalition MP never and never would have supported such a law where the opposition would have no place in it. Mr Secretary of State, what you said the opposition has the opportunity to participate in the supervisory councils, to have all the materials through the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, that is less than larifari. It could be called Baba's taking away the cakes. In short, it's nothing. Look, Mr State Secretary, what is the difference between me, who is the opposition Member, or any citizen in this country when amending, adopting certain legislation. Actually, there's no difference. Both citizens and opposition Members, if we have an arrogant coalition, we can't change anything, we can't warn anything. It doesn't help if we're talking until 7:30 in the morning, all night. And it doesn't help to point out the irregularities 50 times in one night, because the coalition is too arrogant. You know what I don't understand? The simple faces of the people who were in 2012 were led by colleague Marko Pogačnik when they co-ordinated with the opposition and demanded that the opposition have one more representative, and I would also agree that it has two, I absolutely agree, and that the coalition is appropriately smaller and today they have turned the board for a full 180 degrees. That means if I'm in power, then you won't be looking at anything if I'm in opposition, and then I'll be in control. It's right that if you're in the opposition, you've got a choice to make. The difference between the Supervisory Board after the current State Holding Act and those proposed by you is a few light years. But that's obvious because it's still the last thing. And this is the property of the countryside, which is in the hands of Slovenian and Slovenian, Slovenian farmers. The latter, who would still like to possess the word of the present President of the National Assembly, in an inexcusable, unfair, unjust manner. Social Democrats argued at the time that they would not participate in this treachery. But they're involved in high treason. I just don't understand how a man like that can walk in front of a mirror without a mirror breaking. I really don't understand. It will rest, as I said at the outset, when citizens and citizens look at this mirror and they will see that one speaks when they have the opportunity to do so completely differently. The fact is, thank God, he's still a bumper in this country. This is obviously the Constitutional Court, which today annulled the possibility of nationalisation of the Slovenian countryside and so on destruction of hundreds of Slovenian entrepreneurs, craftsmen and so on. You don't realize that probably the kind of law you want to get through the procedure can't stand. This is probably not in accordance with the Constitution that there is no control. Do not say that the supervision of the five members of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Finance Minister. Look, the same will happen as the Commission's proposal for President and Deputy Anti-Corruption Commission. You can't do that! If the National Assembly had at least a small number of farmers at that time, it would have elected an opposition member or a member of the committee. It's not. And in this case, the amendment that we have tabled in the Slovenian People's Party and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party is necessary to support one of these two to support at least that minimum standard of participation in control, but not, Mr Secretary of State, as you mentioned. Colleagues and colleagues, try to think a little bit about it, try to think a little bit about it, try to think a little bit about it, and ask your constituents and voters if it's really wise for them to have a government coalition in their hands, whether it's wise for them to have control of the opposition as well. However, this is also our task, which is ours today, and tomorrow it will be yours, and those who will have this opportunity. This is an opportunity for citizens and citizens. In each mandate, more than 50% of Members and Members are no longer given this opportunity, obviously they did not deserve it with their work. And if this time it is so that 5% of the current ruling coalition will be elected, there will be a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has asked for the floor. Mitya Mavko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Because there were some specific questions. First of all, thank you very much to Mr Pogačnik for his praises for his expertise and I will try to answer the dry-cleaning professional question you have asked. In Article 39, which is the additional criteria required by the new proposal of the law from the members of the SDH Supervisory Board to the candidates for membership. The second indent, i.e. experience confirms business performance and reputation, this is extremely added to the law. Alineia, who says that a candidate must not perform a function which, under the law governing integrity and preventing corruption, is incompatible with membership in the supervisory authority after this or another law. And the last indent is that he is not a member of the management or control body of the company in which SDH has a majority share. Something on this last topic is in the existing law, saying that a candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board should not be in a business relationship with a subsidiary, and it is more decided that he should not be a member of the management or control body. The question of the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors was also raised. According to the bill before you, the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors extends to companies where SDH has a direct or indirect majority of voting rights. If you ask the Court of Auditors today whether it has the authority to carry out the audit in TES, we would all like to have it, and the Court of Auditors today will say that it is unfortunate that it does not have that authority. Therefore, we wanted to write very explicitly into the new law so that such jurisdiction could be granted to the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u106	Why does the Court of Auditors not have the authority to go to TES today? Probably because you didn't confirm the classification in SDH and SDH didn't come back to life. In that law, the addition was then made that the Court of Auditors was responsible for the supervision of related and subordinated companies. But you put an important matter in here for me to be able to extend the terms of reference for ten years, which is commendable. But here I think you've given up that matter that's important. With regard to the tightening of the terms for a member of the Supervisory Board, I think you've just broken up more of these alliances. What's in the existing law in one indent is you wrote in two or three. I do not think that the general conditions for members of the Supervisory Board with the proposed new law are exacerbated by the existing law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hochevar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! 40th Article of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which we have been discussing for some time now, is one of the most important articles in this law. It determines how we will appoint a world of oversight, five people who will have what is left of the former silver. The proposal of the SDS and SLS colleagues as amendments to this Article is, however, also welcome and create a more transparent view of the appointment of the Supervisory Council. But in fact, it's just shifting the design of a proposal from one to the other. There's still politics in here. I argue that it is even a fragmentation of responsibility, which also allows one basis for fishing in mud. And that's what we've been alerting everyone through the Civil War. As long as state property exists, politics will have an impact on it. The question, however, is what impact or impact we will allow on the basis of criteria and criteria, and in the final stage of how much we will be, whether we are capable in this national assembly, whether we come from the left or from the right political options, even any proposal to reject. Henry Ford once said that they could destroy all his factories, take all his machines, leave only humans to him, and build his empire again. And that is what I am saying in this particular article and in this law. Regardless of what we write down, it is important whether we will actually be able to give our vote at the end for professional, competent people, whether they are proposed by the National Assembly, the Government or the Commission for the supervision of public finances or by the Court of Auditors. In the Civil Gazette, we are not avoiding this responsibility, and we are already predicting that we will give our consent only to the proposal for this appointment, which will really be based on the proposals of people who are highly qualified, have competence and also their past actions or engagement in which they indicate that they will do well and keep an eye on the state property that remains. Whether we were in the previous government or in the current government, we do not change our positions, but we point out through all of this that we should give our staff independent, good and professional personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavticnik has the floor, followed by Mrs Ludmila Novak. Mag. Have you got a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u110	I have to respond to this last comment from the representative of the Civil Code. I think you have a lot of problems with yourself, you say something, and you're doing something else. You are going to one great populism, what you will support in the National Assembly, expertise, previous results. See if there is no expertise and if there are no results, a member of the Supervisory Board cannot be proposed because he will not meet the conditions. However, it is quite sad, even to Mr Šuštersič, former Minister of Finance, such an attitude towards this. You promised a lot, from supporting the classification in November 2013 to something else. Now that you cannot support this proposal for opposition here, members of the opposition or representatives of the Commission's proposal for public financial supervision must meet the same conditions as all other members. And read about the conditions for the members of the Supervisory Board in the existing and new proposals. Not that you will then determine whether it is an expert and a result, and you will make a decision on that basis. Nor will he be able to come upon a proposal that will not have it. And don't cheat and cheat on it. And one more thing, the Prime Minister of the Government said, at the time of her confidentiality, that a confidant is a commitment to citizens and citizens. I will say, however, state property is a commitment to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And this is not the property of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And the government is responsible for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u111	Mag. Katarina Hočevar, I can't give you my word because you can't replicate on the execution of mags. It's because he had a replica. Although I also have to say that in a certain way, we know what a replica means, so try to focus on that when you answer. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik has the floor, then Mrs. Novakova, and then I will, mag. Katarina Hočevar could give her word again, and then Mr Brane Golubovic. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. When I listened to the debaters today, and if someone turned on the TV like that, I'd think we're talking about the functioning of a state holding company that has no control. And we're talking here today about the control council. True, the problem is how this oversight council will be composed. Any position or opposition speaks about it, but everyone has his own views. When I listened to the rhetoric of some MPs or MPs who talk about the government's predatory aspirations, of course, it is very difficult for us to come together in such a rhetoric, so that we can listen and participate even worse. With such a rhetoric, all cooperation immediately falls into the water. When we were in the opposition, I said to the then position, which is now in the opposition, that I would like those who are in the opposition to participate in control. And that's what I'm thinking today. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. I will support him because I haven't changed in a year and a half, and I stand by my words that were spoken at that time. I am convinced that the very control exercised by someone as President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and without the possibility of voting is insufficient. That's why I'm gonna stand for it. However, I would like to say that the situation in which this country is today is not the fault of this government, nor is it the case. The largest tycoon credits took place and were given over the period 2004-2008. Of course, I will be very happy to know who gave them and who received them. I hope that we will see this day and these reports sometime. However, whatever government it is, it is responsible for running the state and running state-owned enterprises. That's not the last thing that's clear to everyone. The opposition is the one who speaks so and so and so and blames the government and tries to somehow throw the pollen under her feet, which is not good. See, you too have accepted the ZUJF, where the Constitutional Court has also somehow mined certain articles and said that they are not correct. That's what we've been alerting you to. Yes, the law you adopted was unconstitutional, certain articles were unconstitutional, you selectively excluded certain people, but we didn't make out of it what stories you were talking about, how you wanted to destroy this country and destroy people. At least that's not what I was saying. That's why I don't want you to finger me when we make decisions and sometimes these are wrong. No, in our desire for good, we make mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, hello! I must say that I welcome Mr Kavtičnik's decision when he said he would support this amendment, because I am sure that trust in people is good, control and control is even better. That is also the case with one of the proverbs. And it's dangerous to have power and control in the same hands. In Slovenia, therefore, there are many cases and wishes, or the goal of all of us in this National Assembly must be that the stories of the past will not be repeated. Since it is a national assembly, because we are an autonomous branch of power, our common objective must be to make control of our assets as effective as possible. I would like to trust the expert committee, but the latest case of the expert commission when the President of the KPK Senate is appointed teaches us that we actually find it difficult to trust these expert commissions. It is now being discovered, and I do not want to talk about the President of the KPK, but it is actually revealed what his competences are, what his expertise is. It's a shame. And here in state property, when it comes to a lot of money, a lot of money, it's even more dangerous for the expert commission to appoint people to the supervisory board who will work after the dictatorship of someone. The principle of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – is that we have the same positions as we are in the government and when we are in opposition, according to our programme. I think that Members should always be aware that we do not blindly confirm everything the government is proposing, because in the end it turns out that in a pit, in order to solve problems as soon as possible, many things are wrong. I was at the announcement of the Constitutional Court's judgment, which in fact declared a mistrust to the Slovenian government and the Prime Minister. And I believe that many of the coalition Members did not like the real estate tax law and would like to do otherwise in many ways. I'm afraid you can't or you didn't want to or you didn't have the guts to do that. And when we begin not only to listen but also to hear in this National Assembly, and accordingly to make our decisions, then I believe that confidence in politics and the National Assembly will also improve. Therefore, I think it is right that the ruling coalition also has control over itself from the opposition, so I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. For her, Mr Brane Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Look, I already said in my first reading of this law that because of me, this law could have only three articles: the withdrawal of the country from the economy, the withdrawal of the country from the economy and the sale of it transparently. In fact, we have always advocated this in the National Gazette, but because there are only 7 of us, both in the previous and in this government, we need to compromise. I have read Article 39 well, Mr Pogačnik, but it is precisely the last occasion of the appointment of the President of the KPK that has proved to be worse at any cost than the confirmation of a bad proposal. And regardless of what we have written in the law, it is right or was just to point out in my debate that we will have the last word, despite all the Members. We must make good decisions and make good decisions, regardless of the logs they come from, all 90 of us, and this is suggested by Pope Francis, the opposition or the coalition. And that's all that was meant to be my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Brane Golubovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. It's not a problem with state property. The problem is how to manage this property. We're all probably in agreement here. We know that this property has been done by replacing the supervisors with the government each time a policy that took place. Some of you are still telling us that this government has not replaced the management of DUB, NLB, Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. But it is likely that people in the government have decided that the stability of state-owned enterprises is extremely important and therefore that the practice that has so far been in force is not adhered to. It has been said that the better it will be managed, the less privatisation. And I have here a problem managing our state assets in all these years. And the problem is politics. It is not a problem of state property, the problem is when politics interferes with state property. And he could be right about his friend Marko. It is likely that the opposition should also have a member in the supervisory council. But I have a different concept of looking at this thing, so I can't agree with that. My concept is that no opposition, no coalition should have its members in the governing bodies. If we agree that the opposition must have two representatives in the supervisory council, then it is said that the coalition has four. And once the government is replaced, the supervisory council will be replaced immediately, because it is logical that once again there must be a new coalition of four and a new opposition of two. This means that we will undermine the stability of state-owned enterprises, but we have already seen what this means. So it's kind of two concepts. Once again, I would like to highlight how we get to the Governing Council. Firstly, each member must meet very difficult conditions and cannot be each member. Secondly, the Minister of Finance, on the basis of a selection committee that conducts the procedure, proposes to the Government to appoint five members. The Government of these five members is proposing to the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall hold a debate on the names and surnames of these references and shall decide. If the Minister of Finance gives him another name, as suggested by the Commission, it must be made public. The same goes for the government. The President of the Commission for the Control of Public Finance, who is a member of the opposition, can participate in the meetings of the Supervisory Board and have access to all the information, which means that the logic of the opposition is also that it is constantly monitoring and informing the public of its findings. I would just like to point out once again that my concept is that politics is not a place in any state-owned body. However, it is a place for politicians to draw up a law in which such conditions will be in order to minimise the risk of this happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much. My friend Brannet and I have already spoken to each other, but not specifically. I didn't mean when I said if the government called it a policy, the same opposition called politics. No, I think both the government and the opposition call themselves experts. That's what I think. Not to be appointed to the Supervisory Board of Politics – not by any means, but to be called experts in this field.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill wants to have a word. Is there anyone else? No, no, no. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much. In fact, I was somehow encouraged by Mr Golubovic's implementation. What he was explaining here, if it was ideal or what everyone would like, I sign under his thinking. But what does it look like in practice? Who has ever met or knows how the members of the supervisory boards or of the supervisory boards in the municipalities or wherever they have a control function have access to specific information? As a rule, it is the management’s desire or the supervisor’s desire to intervene. And it will certainly be the same here. A representative of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, who may be present there when the meeting of the Supervisory Board is held, will receive such information as will be provided to him. And even if he probably wants to have some specific information that he was informally aware of, I am sure he will not have and will not get it. That's why it's naked, naked, naked farce and gibberish. Explanation or reasoning that politics in the supervisory councils does not have a place. I agree that there must be none of the active politicians, Members or such prominent officials in the supervisory world. But our proposal does not determine whether or not to propose that there must be a policy, that it must be by the opposition, but that it is a proposal submitted by the opposition. I believe that these proposals will be professional, with references that will be able to carry out their work competently. However, in order to avoid that politics does not have such or otherwise have such or different interests and try to subordinate an individual institution — and here, in general, a state holding company that manages the entire property — this temptation is so much greater. And it is here that we should then look for a way into the supervisory council to name people who will be interesting, I speak interestingly, unrelated, who will not pursue the goals of individual lobbying or groups, but that they will be professional and, of course, will be able to perform their function. To talk here also about what this government has not changed in such an institution, in another institution, because it wants to continue its function as an individual supervisory board or administration to allow it to do so, see, this is not the most convincing argument. Let's take a look at what his name was, or at the time, there was a switch in Luka Koper. We all know, naked con. Just like that – what references does the gentleman now have to perform the function of the KPK? He didn't submit any references. On the one hand, in some paragraphs he made a vision of the most important institution to solve corruption in Slovenia. Come on, please, be serious and don't get carried away. And how did this gentleman's appointment come about? How? Mr. Pahor had to sign what the commission had submitted to him. And we know about the commission, what we called it in the National Assembly. When we wanted you to be a representative of the opposition, specifically Mr Tanko, you were in the coalition, and Mrs Hočevar did not support him, who wanted competent, professional people probably also on this committee. Do you think that was the right decision? Are you satisfied with the election of the President of the KPK? If you are, then drop the hat. But that's not what you want or what you want to say. Look what we will then have here to discuss those proposed by the Government, these five members, the Minister, then the Government, and so will we. I'm just wondering when you're going to be in the coalition in the background of "silence," even if you're going to be proven here by such or other arguments that an individual candidate doesn't meet those criteria, you'll definitely vote in favour. As was the real estate tax law. After the first wind that came after the issue of the decisions, many coalition Members acknowledged that they had been misled by incorrect information and had pressed the "yes" button, despite not believing in this law and knowing that it was unfair, unfair, which of course has now proved to be true. Look, it's all farce. The National Assembly is an institution that confirms what is being imposed on them by the Government and in agreements within the coalition. The only way, however, is not ideal, such as our amendment to be appointed or placed in that group of experts, competent people who are also proposed by the opposition and who are also following our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! It's interesting that we still have some energy this Friday afternoon. I don't know what gives us motivation to debate, but everyone knows their answer. Again, I will not trouble you that now this government, which has the most responsibility in this country, is laying down a new law on the Slovenian state holding company, which is not a holding company, but a new agency, is some AUKN 2, but let's leave. This 40th Article requires thorough reflection. When it comes to supervisory councils in economic societies, we are simply not going along in all this self-sustaining history. We still have not understood what corporate governance is, what is the function and responsibility of the supervisory board. And given that, in fact, since we have the first company law that defined the mission of the Supervisory Councils, to date, not one, at least I don't know it, has the supervisor been in charge, let alone being behind bars, which a logical person might conclude is corporate governance in all our companies, private and state, excellent. It's not. Probably not. Some of you touched the commission. We have commissions in this country and we have commissions. And they say if you don't want to solve the problem, then you set up a commission. We also have a commission that is now implementing a new folklore in Slovenia, which is called'species'. That's what I read in the papers now. Let's go. Let's get to the point. The fact that in the name of State ownership in banks, energy, Telekom Slovenije, Adria Airways, Slovenian Railways, Post Slovenia and many other companies compete in the budget for the fights of some ten million Euro dividends per year and the policy constantly deals with the recruitment of its supporters into their supervisory councils and administrations. And this is only one of the reasons why many want to be involved in the management of the Slovenian State Holding. We, the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, want to make a tectonic shift in thought this time. Therefore, I say, let us not be afraid of foreign managers and trust the management of the Slovenian state holding company, namely state property, to those truly the best in the world that are not burdened by the domestic social political backstage. And let's make a deal with them that will be verified by the best law firm, not Slovenian, in the world, because it's worth doing. But here there is a need for tectonic reflection, if, of course, it is not already specified that there are actually established and reserved seats in the administration, in the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Board to those people who are close to this coalition. But the state property is not owned by this government, not by this coalition, but owned by all citizens and citizens of this country, that is 2 million and 54 thousand as far as we are. It is known that the Slovenian economy needs fresh capital. I have already said in my previous debate that it could be that these best managers we will attract to Slovenia have a reputation, enjoy trust, certainly have references to talk to foreign investors who would come to Slovenia. Because – who will? Who's gonna do it? The National Assembly, the Government, the Minister of Finance? We're not doing it. We can't do this story. So I say, tectonic reflection, tectonic shift in thinking we have to do. It is known that the Slovenian economy needs at least EUR 5 billion of fresh capital, which is not available in the local environment or in the state sector and will not exist. He won't be here. The question is how to convince the most responsible policies of this country. It occurred to me that Mrs Alenka Bratusek is leaning towards this solution, which I am talking about, to bring in foreign best managers. I hope the other coalition February won't be crushed. We, who are advocates of a foreign operator, warn that the time for decision is no longer enough. 'Cause the year's gonna be around fast. In the coming year, Slovenia, which is the latest in the coming year, is waiting for Slovenia to re-elect. But we all have so much experience, and we know that the election year is an irrational year. At that time, important reforms, important decisions, cannot be made in the country. So there are not many alternatives, and one for Slovenia, especially for some, is painful, this is an international aid programme. But we are not Spain, we are not Ireland, who, in return for the European billions, had to take quite a few steps. Unfortunately, Slovenia cannot expect this moment. My conclusion, my concluding thought, is in the direction of supporting the amendments to the 40th member of colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 40? Mr Bran Golubovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much. About the investment fund or the best foreign managers. This idea of an investment fund run by the Slovenian state holding company may not be such a bad idea, even though we have rather bad experience with foreign managers who run a so-called bad bank where they have to advise themselves with large amounts, on the other hand they say they are not responsible for anything and that they did not determine which company is coming. But I just want to say, even in Slovenia we have good managers, we have good managers abroad, we have bad managers in Slovenia, we have bad managers abroad, or we look in our own way. I would just add once more that there will be no misunderstanding. For me, the quality of running the company is essential. And they run a company, people run a real company. It's important how we get to these people. They are from Slovenia or abroad, but they are in the final stages. So it's a procedure. It doesn't matter to me who proposes them, whether it's opposition or position. And once again, if we agree to the logic that the opposition is proposing two members and a coalition of four, it means that once the government is replaced, it is somehow logical that the supervisory council will break down and re-set a new supervisory council. That's not the stability we're following. If we propose to improve this procedure, which is now prescribed, you even have me with you. However, I cannot agree that two will be appointed by the opposition and four will be appointed by the Supervisory Board at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Golubovic. I also see a desire for a debate, so I am opening an application for a debate on Article 40 and the two amendments tabled. The application shall be made. The first one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u128	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Article 40 speaks of the composition of the Supervisory Board, the Council, whatever. It's about a team that's going to control how it's going to manage the property of all of us. If we agree with the logic that this country, this Parliament, or, if you want, also people in controlling how state assets are managed, represents the whole Parliament, not just the current government coalition, then the composition of the supervisory board should also be adapted. If we do not agree with the logic that asset management is only a matter of government coalitions, then this logic must also be adapted to the composition of the supervisory board. If I say even more domestically, state property can not only be a matter of the current government coalition, but it must be a matter of all of us, that is, all of us who are in some way represented in this national assembly and represent the people. Anyone who sincerely wants to settle the matter in order to share responsibility among all of us should also agree to the composition of the supervisory board that follows that logic. The proposed one is a major departure from this and virtually the overall supervisory function is taken into the hands of the people proposed by the Ministry of Finance, including the government coalition, and there is no impact, the opposition has neither the possibility of participating in or having an overview of this matter in any way. For this reason, I hope that colleagues and colleagues will today support some of the amendments that have been tabled and are going in the direction of giving the opposition a supervisory role and that control over the management of state property is a matter for all, not just those currently in power.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u130	Madam President, first of all allow me to bypass the tone and spirit of this debate, because I think today, after an hour and a half or two ago, the Constitutional Court passed a decision on the non-constitutionality of the Real Estate Tax Act, it is appropriate that, as one of the supporters of this tax, I also say something on the public stage. I think it is appropriate to apologize and confirm that the initiators of the constitutional opinion, as well as those who opposed the adoption of the law in such a form in this national assembly, did so. I think it would be wrong to put your head in the sand today and act like nothing happened. This action will be a serious principle of credibility in adopting measures, and I think that, above all, the ruling coalition must have the result of today's constitutional judgment, which it must absolutely respect and, above all, understand that this is a serious warning. I'd like to understand him that way. In this context, I would also like to discuss the proposed amendments by the opposition to the Slovenian State Holding Act. The Slovenian reality in the area of capital investment management is extremely sad. I attribute the reasons for this in particular to the fact that the State, as the owner of a very important part of the economy, has never in one transparent and clear way defined its own objectives. This is actually due to the fact that Slovenia, as a country since 2004, has not defined its strategic objectives for itself, not only as the owner of companies, but as a state, as a community. We, in the last 15 years or at least 10 years, since we joined the European Union and NATO, have been in a conceptual vacuum, from the nature and political foreshadow of the government, a small part of what measures and what macroeconomic policy are, but with the character of this nation, with the character of this country, and in particular with the question of what we want this Slovenia to become, we are essentially not doing much. And I think it would be useful to reinforce this strategic thought. Under the Slovenian State Holding Act, a capital investment management strategy will be presented to the National Assembly. I don't want to be just some table, that it's just a list of companies and that we're going to be there after some review by some official, O.K., that's strategic, that's important, and that's portfolio. Because we didn't do anything about it. With this, we've just unlocked the privatisation list. We need to answer a much more complex question, and that is what we as a nation, what we as a country want and what Slovenia want to live in after 10, 15 or 20 years. Because, respected and respected, the life of the state does not begin with some government, but is a continuous process. The decisions of one government also have a fatal impact on the conduct of the following governments. I do not want to start a discussion of the responsibility of who put us in this "zos", but my firm belief is that the wrong macroeconomic policy in 2004-2008 brought us into a situation where, due to the reduction of the tax burden on the one hand and on the other hand, the state's obligations have undermined that fundamental balance that was the gold rule by 2004. After all, the country has largely achieved a small deficit every year, but these were entirely appropriate and manageable to the economic performance of our economy. What I want to say is that the absence of the strategic objectives of this country is, in fact, our key problem. Since we do not have these strategic goals, we are subject to this conceptual vacuum and acrobatics and to the experiments of one, another, third government. It is not until today that we find that the Constitutional Court has repealed the Real Estate Tax Act. However, if we look more closely at what has created such a large deficit in Slovenia, which requires new tax inflows to remedy public finances, consolidate them, bring them into a sustainable balance in the medium term, we find that in fact the mistakes and problems of governments are far ahead of Alenko Bratušek. For the Slovenian state holding company and for the fate of state property, this strategic aspect is extremely important. I would like to recall the provision of the Capital Investment Management Act, which we have repealed a long time ago because someone was afraid of the Capital Investment Management Agency, which clearly stipulated that the Management Strategy should be drawn up on the basis of sectoral policies. Because it is not only some financier in the Slovenian State Holding who can assess what strategic values are for the country, what will we do with our infrastructure, what will we do with food supply, water supply, security and security of electricity supply, what will we do with our banking system as a financial backbone of society and economy. These are strategic questions. While we are deciding what to sell, the truth is that Slovenia is, in some powerful cases, showing that it is "open for business" that it is an open country to overcome the stories that have made Slovenia so hermetically closed for foreign capital. But on the other hand, I strongly object to the fact that without reflection, due to the short-term interest, we sell the property as quickly as possible without this strategic consideration, without assessing what is strategic, what is important to the nation and what we get for it in a situation where we know that capital investment management is not at the moment. Today, we are with the Slovenian Indemnity Society at the forefront of the standards that were established at the time of the Capital Investment Management Agency. The Capital Investment Management Agency, however, I know, colleagues, that sometimes I get on your nerves because I am trying to be her lawyer in this House, has in a very short time, a practical year and a half, established internationally comparable practices. For these practices, it has been shown abroad as an example of good practice in the short term to establish such a good regulatory framework as good examples of business practice, business culture, the relationship between the owner and the country as the owner and individual companies. At that time, the management of AUKN, through its executive directors, who were important people with authority from an investment point of view, held quarterly meetings with the boards of supervisory boards of state-owned companies, monitored the implementation of ownership policy, did not set staff in companies, but mainly wondered whether companies would achieve their business objectives and, together with the administrations and these supervisory boards, also defined or helped to shape the business objectives of these companies. Today we are dealing here as an exclusive issue of the Slovenian state holding company all the time with the question of who will sit in the supervisory world. Why I reject the opposition's prescriptions on this subject and allow someone to lie to me again in a few months. Because I believe that a representative of the Social Democrats should not sit in the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding, the representative of the Positive Slovenia should not sit and the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party should not sit. I believe that in the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding there must be someone who has all the expertise and criteria, under this law they are set up very high, having an ethical relationship, which has an ethical relationship to state property also in this context, that he understands that this property is the property of all citizens and citizens, to whom every time the highest care must be exercised in management, because it is the inheritance of all. And it is his job to hand over this heritage in the best possible hands to the successors to hand it over to the next generation. We are not going to fail the exam to sell everything on the list today after we may have been too closed because the issue of national interest in our economy has been misused. Taiwanation was not a national interest. Tycunization was an abuse of national interest. I am deeply sorry that, not colleagues in the government, nor colleagues in coalition parliamentary groups, nor colleagues in the opposition, have recognized the added value of the very sincere amendment of the Social Democrats, which we tabled on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy when it was dealt with before the mother's working body. We have proposed that one or two representatives in the seven-member Supervisory Board be appointed employees. Wrong. They are employed in all companies owned or managed by the Slovenian State Holding. Because you know, the employees are the ones who are most interested in doing the company good. The employees are those who will be able to closely monitor sales processes and will not only be interested in the financial gain for the country, but also in the fate of the company that sells it: whether this company will still provide quality jobs, whether it will be a business-friendly company for employees or not. And that's not just a union question. Above all, the representatives of the Supervisory Boards would be an excellent correction of the possible political impact. For I allow the possibility that when the concept, as is now set, when the Minister of Finance, one person appoints the expert committee of three people and, let's say that it can be his classmates or friends, who will know, he chooses five new friends in a public appeal, and these five new friends will get thirsty coalitions, in the National Assembly we won't put ourselves up against the government's decision anyway. Finally, the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding will be a derivative of the will of the Finance Minister. Regardless of whether I am the Finance Minister of Urošu Chufer, I trust or not, I think that this is dangerous and that with the utmost care should be taken to ensure that people who do not have a debt are placed in the supervisory councils of the Slovenian State Holding Company and also in its management. You know, Boris Štefanec or Stefanec, the Slovenian public was disturbed because he was a member of a political party. I will not judge, and I have not been active on this subject, I am sad that we do not know how to get to the credible leadership of the Commission to prevent corruption, but nevertheless, ma'am, it is his fault that he was a member of a political party. I am a member of a political party; I became a member of a political party at the age of 16, because I am then and because I believe in something today, and because I have decided to reveal my political beliefs publicly and transparently. But don't let anyone think I'm a puppet and that Igor Lukšič has threads that control my speech or my body. I'm a single person who thinks with my head and also for Boris Stefanean, I hope to claim that's about the same. However, I would not hope to claim the same for the multitude of people who, as in many cases, party delegates were placed in the supervisory councils and enforced the policy of the parties there. The Slovenian state holding company must not pursue the policy of the parties. The Slovenian state-owned holding company must pursue the policy of the highest national interests, and this is responsible, rational, economic management of this property, in order to be noble in order to ensure a quality input into the state treasury. This property could represent between €350 million and €700 million in this country's annual budget. The real - estate tax would not have been necessary if it were to be properly regulated. And it doesn't take much for that to happen. Only things need to be normalised and the country, as owner, needs to define its own objectives. The definition of ownership objectives in this country has never been achieved. The country as owner did not say what it wants with this bank, what it wants with the coal mine, what it wants with the energy system, what it wants with Darsa, what it wants with Petrol, Krka and so on and so on. And what happens when the owner doesn't set politics? Yeah, somebody else is. But the question is, does someone else put politics in the common public interest?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u131	Mr. Franzege, the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u132	We are talking about the very essence of this amendment, Madam Vice-President. I'm talking about the very essence of this amendment. I'm sorry if it's too long. I want to understand this amendment well-intentionedly. That is why, in previous stages, I have also supported the need for the Commission to oversee public finances to provide a specific place for the opposition to be able to closely monitor the processes. And following a solution in one of the following articles, the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances will be invited to the meetings of the Supervisory Board. An even more important Institute of Public Interest Protection is the so-called Economic and Social Committee. Yes, indeed, Andrej Shircelj, you trust only yourself, and I trust the representatives of the unions, and I would trust the representatives of the employees in these companies even more, and you have excluded them, you have not supported our amendment, which would give two representatives of the employees a seat in this supervisory council. And I'd trust them the most. More than some financial expert who's only interested in a naked profit. This is also important, and this is also important, especially when we are talking about the fact that this property must represent some of the revenue of the state budget. But not just by selling our assets today, but in five years we'll be in the same space with no assets. And today, we are deciding, respected and respected, on fundamental things, on matters of the greatest strategic interest in this country. And, as it is said, the ESA represents the controller in this respect. He has the right to look at all the key business processes in the Slovenian State Holding and to look at them through warnings and, in the extreme case, also a public public warning to this National Assembly, "see, honourable Members and Members, see, Mr. Minister, see, Madam Prime Minister, strange things are happening in the holding company, please respond". But at the same time, on the other hand, see, this amendment brings another danger mentioned earlier by colleague Brana Golubović. Even in this case, I strongly agree with him. If we agree that the representatives of the supervisory councils, representatives of this or that majority, of this or that party, of course, will change after the elections. We lack continuity in decision-making processes. Look at the New Ljubljana Bank, and we've been changing the worlds once a year. How will you ensure business continuity, how will you ensure the credibility of such institutions if foreign interlocutors see another interlocutor there every time they contact a bank? We underestimate the importance of this soft in human relations. That it is important for business today to have a social network. I could talk here about other matters, such as the acute case of Cimosa. One third of jobs in the Slovenian economy, in which the country plays an important role, are related to the automotive industry. Today, the car industry is one of the most standardised, most competitive industries in the world. Slovenian suppliers have been given the highest status of suppliers through years of hard work, years of development, years of deliberate development. They're system development suppliers like Cimos. Calvary, because the decision-making processes on the fate of Cimos and because the state obviously cannot show that it will be behind these extremely important, strategically important companies, results in important suppliers of Cimos already putting Cimos on the red list. Wait a minute – what's wrong here? Again, there is a lack of definition of the strategic interests of this country, the knowledge that it is a sector that provides one third of the jobs in the industry in Slovenia, that it is a sector where we have rich engineering knowledge, development skills and, last but not least, good companies. I expect that this holding will also be able to define the management strategy for this property if the other document does not. The strategy for the development of Slovenia, for example, which is under exclusive government authority, we do not even know that it is being prepared. He's been fooling around for a year, and I hear there's no God knows anything strategic about it. You know, we're here on real subjects. The real estate tax law was a fire-fighting operation. That was clear back then. We have clearly acknowledged that we accept it for fiscal purposes because of the fiscal framework. However, if there was a kind of solution in it, the truth is loving, if there were no such framework and if there was no such need, we would never point to supporting it as Social Democrats. I apologize, Madam Vice-President, for being a little too intense in my debate. If I've spent a little too much time and put cities away from it. I have these amendments, even though I want to believe that the opposition has submitted them with the best of intentions, I cannot support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Frangež, you really went a little wider, but you warned me about that before, so I let you do that. It is true, however, that time has gone by within your parliamentary group. It's the Mag's word. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u134	Madam President, thank you for the floor. It is very interesting to listen to Members of Parliament, a coalition at a given time, how they would do everything they stand for. Then I ask you why you blocked the Slovenian State Holding Act for over a year and a half. Even now that it's being enforced, you're not doing it. If you could stand up for everything you just said. The Slovenian State Holding Act and the existing and current Act do not allow every government to recall the Supervisory Council overnight. Read Article 44. But you didn't want it, you liked to operate on the Court today, after Kadu, where it's possible to replace the supervisory board with a reference to the government. This law doesn't allow it, but you've been blocking it for over a year and a half. And it turns out you're saying something, but you're doing something else. I think it's crucial in here that politics will put its hands out of the way already because conditions have been created to meet someone's candidacy for a member of the Supervisory Board. However, I agree with you, Mr Frangež, that a political card should not be an obstacle if someone fulfils professional competences. However, the KPK is probably also asking a question there. And the conditions for appointment as a member of the Supervisory Board would be, I would say, exclusively easy, which is an expert who has proved his work so far and here I do not mind if he has a political card. And so you liked the Social Democrats to organize various forums, to present the issue of how this is happening in the Scandinavian countries, and the representative of the Management Fund from Norway told you nicely. There is no problem in Norway if there is a member of the Supervisory Board who has a political card. It's important to us that he's an expert. And the already existing Slovenian State Holding Act does so. The court and this way of managing as you do now, which you have always supported when you come into power, does not allow that. And I think it's important that you name someone you trust. Thus, the government appoints its representatives to the Supervisory Board, which trusts them, and thus give the opposition the opportunity to propose through the Commission to oversee public finances to the one we trust. Unfortunately, after all the results and after all the fiascos shown so far by the government of Alenka Bratušek, we do not trust this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We are still discussing Article 40. I wonder if anyone else would like to? Here you go, Mr. Meh, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u136	It is right that the opposition says that it does not trust the position and that it controls it if, by the way, I can say this last statement. Since we are talking about the supervisory council and the composition of the supervisory council, I would like to comment on two issues that have arisen today. The first is that in the control world there should be foreigners who are supposed to run this holding and that they would be the ones who would be the best and best to do what this state holding company would then do. I strongly protest against it. First of all, we should really do what we can to agree on what we will do with the property of the state. What we want to do with this property and what we need to do with this property is then to be done in the long run. Then I say that in Slovenia we have enough professions and enough people who are able to do themselves and do everything that needs to be done so that we can control and manage the Slovenian state holding company. I don't think the aliens have done their best so far, and I'm not going to tell these cases. That is why I feel or feel confident that the composition should be the way it is. You talk a lot about responsibility today. Of course, I am aware that it is the responsibility of the position for what has happened. And that is why I have also completely responsiblely pressed on the "for" button of the real estate tax law, because in some way we have solved everything that was before the Alenka Bratušek government began this mandate, wrongly, and had to be resolved with a large deficit that had been caused by all governments in the past and the previous one the most. For this reason, it seems to me that this responsibility, or I am convinced that responsibility for results and responsibility for leadership must be placed before the Governing Council, regardless of whether it is so or not, that it is right to draw up a supervisory board so that responsibility is clear and that it will not be possible to talk about who is to blame or who is involved in making bad decisions. And one more thing, I think, was also about the oversight councils in the congregational councils. I can argue that the Supervisory Councils are composed by the opposition, and that the Supervisory Councils are where responsibility was appropriate and good, that the Supervisory Councils have played an extremely important role there, since they have been the controller to the municipal administrations and have played their part well. Therefore, I will not support the proposed 40th Article of the amendments. However, I am also absolutely aware of my responsibility this time because I will vote against the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you, too. I see he has a desire to discuss magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u138	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. I think the only solution for the non-political recruitment of appointments to supervisory councils, including holding companies and other companies, privatisation or withdrawal of the country from the economy. Until that happens, however, it is right that the coalition realizes that it is beneficial for it, that it is in the control world, or that there is also some control or opposition in the structure. That's useful for a position. This is not a privilege of opposition. And we were already aware of that in the first government. If you remember, at that time we were very much urging opposition parties to cooperate with experts, not with politicians, with experts in the supervisory boards of economic companies. Remember, at the time, the Social Democrats recruited Dr. Francija Krizanič into the Supervisory Board of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant. They probably did not recruit him as a politician, but the Social Democrats trusted Mr Križanič to know and know that he is an expert, and that he will not least contribute to the functioning and effective functioning of this Supervisory Council for the benefit of society. In fact, I believe that it is dangerous for a coalition to drown the presence of other stakeholders in the control of companies, especially the Slovenian State Holding. I just don't understand some hiccups and actually throwing pollen under the feet of the opposition when he wants and proposes some extra reinforcement. Look, the current coalition, I think that a number of examples of your human resources moves, which are horribly or unwittingly taken care of, are exhilarating. You've all been admiring Mr. Gasper Gasper Music in the administration of Luke Koper. Then there is another case where it is more than obvious that a party’s interest has prevailed and that it is therefore a human resources solution. But what happened recently, and that's why I'm calling, but it's an eclectic example of what can't be happening in this country. The fact that one gentleman, far away from his work experience, has been employed by a bank director. And it's more than obvious it's a political favor. Mr Praprotnik, a member of the Senate or Vice-President of the KPK, a journalist with an extremely clear political pedigree and orientation, not least if you read his articles in Dnevnik, it is more than obvious to you where the dog taco prays and what his profile is, he gets a directorship in the New Ljubljana Bank. Sir, if this is possible and normal in some normal corporate governance, then the whole world is, I don't know, insane. But I think we're crazy. To get one journalist I'm wondering, perhaps even some teacher of physical education or some, I don't know, social worker suitable for this directorship. [[…]] Approximately the same experience, or not least, has educational grounds for doing so. Your Honor, that's how it's staffed in the current coalition. I know, honourable Members, that you who sit here today, and those who do not sit, have nothing to do with it. I know no one asked you about it, and you wouldn't agree with it either. That's what I know. But I want to tell you how it works, how some of the human resources mills that operate in this, and every coalition, grind. I think it's bad, it's catastrophic, and it has to be done once. And until the country withdraws from these economic operators until one serious privatisation takes place in this country, this will be the case. Scomys will have one or the other power. She will recruit more or less politically happy or unhappy. And please don't apologize for doing this by making others do it. That's bad, that's not good. That is why I am telling you that the solution is alone, and this is that the country is doing what is in the state domain. Safe management of capital companies or economic operators, if they are not strategic investments, this is not. And even if it is, it's better to leave it to others. When I listen to this debate about this article for almost two hours, it is actually about who is more or less called and responsible for the political influence in this. And it's bad. It's bad. If you look in the mirror, the picture is probably even more twisted than if any other government had looked in the mirror before.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u140	Yes, it is indeed perverse that most of the debate was led by the SDS here today in the National Assembly with the government, but now a member of the SDS comes and says that he listens for two hours and he's not here. I think it's a lot bigger than that. It was very responsible to discuss who was in the supervisory world, how the supervisory council should be composed, how property should take place. And that was our intention to do. I'm not reading the opposition's motion for an amendment because it's your right. That you're making it clear to me that you're loathing yourself that we don't understand. Well, that's our right! We can't understand that and we can't support it. Of course we have that option. And now around the Praetor. I think it's too big here. Medya — Who Named Him? Who appointed the director? That's why I'm saying I think it's a shame to put such cases here today. Where else could they be put? Today, however, we should talk about the fact that we are going to be our property, which we say the country must withdraw from governance, and I agree in some way that we should do so and we should talk about it. It may also be that through the control councils, through supervision, operational control, we will be able to determine in time what is happening in these societies that are ours. And that's actually our purpose. Let me repeat, from my responsibility to press the button for what I voted, I am not running away from this. I won't run away this time, either, if I don't support the two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We are discussing Article 40. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Bogowicz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u142	Nice greeting, Vice President! Article 40 introduces two amendments that wish to restore what we believe to be the weakness of the law you are proposing. It is said that this responsibility for the management of state property would be shared between the coalition and the opposition that it would not come again to someone seeking responsibility for the fiasco of a law eight years ago and so on. I therefore support what was originally proposed in the law, but now the coalition obviously disagrees. In the original law, it was adopted that one member was proposed by the Commission of the National Finance Supervisory Board. The coalition has decided that it does not need this and that it is obvious that the Government will now propose all members. I myself think that the problem of responsibility in the management of state property is one very important thing. It's also very important in other things. Today I think it would be very good if we had a Minister of Finance among us. It is one of the very important things that has been very attacked in the mandate of the government, of which I have also been a member. Everything that was possible and impossible, normal and abnormal, was designed to bring this issue before the Constitutional Court and to delay at some point by adopting this law. We were pleased to see the end of 2012 that we will regulate the management of state property with the Slovenian Holding Act. Last year, what happened. Colleagues and colleagues, 15 months has passed since the Constitutional Court stopped what it has decided that such a law is in accordance with the Constitution, that it is necessary to start with state property, and we are walking in this national council and simply delaying this necessary and important area of governance with state property. What is done in simply not being more radical in the direction of anti-privatisation, against real owners who would also do real and responsible property is probably the only way to make a combination in the Supervisory Board. That is why I am truly expressing my concern from this city, and because of the key themes – the key themes of this government, the countries – we have long known what they are. It's health. This week we've seen even a breakdown in this area. Another key topic is the rehabilitation of banks that somehow went up in the last year. We see that we have a lot of confusion and confusion in this area. The third key theme is the management of state property. We are discussing this law by chance today on the same day as the Constitutional Court has also said how it feels about the work and the way the government works, the Finance Minister and the President of the Government. I hope if there's a breakdown here and there's a responsibility to not again find someone responsible for eight years ago, as they seek, I see by the media, the President of the Government responsible for the breach of property taxes. There is no finance minister today who can say more about this matter. I suppose you'll probably find another sacrificial lamb in the structure of the Treasury or I don't know where in the office responsible for this matter. Colleagues and colleagues, let's start acting responsibly. And in a case where you are now breaking down what the coalition in another composition has accepted and took note that this is a responsible matter for only a coalition to deal with, you did not recognize this in a real estate tax, where everything we've told you from this place was simply useless for this government coalition, and it's obviously similar in having and managing state property. Perhaps, however, the manoeuvre is intended to continue through the Court to have some clicks of people who apparently manage it very well today. In this part, I think it is right that the amendment proposed by the SDS, which is similar to ours, should be one member on a proposal from this committee in which the majority of the opposition, regardless of what the position in the National Assembly is today, we know what it will be like in six months, a year, a year, a year, two, we do not know, and it is only right that Parliament is truly aware of these responsibilities and that this responsibility for these last 10 billion will be dispersed among all political parties, and, above all, that we will agree once in this National Assembly on how we will manage what we will do with this, what will be privatisation, what will remain in fact as a key state infrastructure and so on. I hope that you will, when you speak of responsibility, act responsibly and realize that it is right for such great responsibility to disperse this responsibility between the coalition and the opposition, regardless of what the state assembly is like at some point.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I am now asking if anyone else would like to discuss Article 40. I don't see any desire. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 41 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Would anyone like to discuss it? I do not see a desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to the 50.b Article and amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word, a nice greeting to everyone. It was kind of nice listening to you. Interestingly, through all the mandates, I've been watching some of them on TV, and in the last two cooperations, the most interesting thing about those articles is about human resources policy. Those in the opposition are afraid that those in the coalition, those who are in the coalition, will not give them anything to the opposition. One way or another, if you have spoken in the preceding articles, then allow me to express my opinion. Because you've talked about everything, but the most you've talked about is a real estate tax that we don't have right now on the agenda. Now I'd like to cut to the chase. In the phase of the draft on the part of Kada, it was said that Kad would join the Slovenian State Holding. We in our parliamentary group were not inclined or opposed to this. We were against separate property records because such arrangements would not guarantee the protection of Kad's property. Why is it so important that we keep it separate? In doing so, we simply insisted in the Democratic Party of Pensioners because we want to maintain and respect the purpose of the Capital Society, which is to ensure certain financial sustainability of the pension fund and thus the security, stability of current and future pensioners. We all know that in the 1990s, when the social property was privatised, the purpose of the establishment of the Capital Society and the transfer of 10 % of the social property to that company was to provide a resource by virtue of the nobility of that property for the necessary financing of the pension fund. The latter is more impoverished from year to year, as it does not flow enough to pay pensions, let alone so much so that pensions can be coordinated. The real value of pensions declined for the fourth consecutive year, affecting the material position of all pensioners. Unfortunately, in recent years pension coordination has also ceased to be complete and there has been no coordination since 2012, with the exception of last year, when only €4.6 million has been allocated to coordination. Here the pensioners warned us that they had also received one euro, which in some ways was funny. And even in 2014 and 2015 there will be no coordination. Thus, these 50 million, which Kad deliberately places in PIZ, are used mainly for the payment of pensions. We are aware that 1.38 workers and also allocates funds for the pension fund and that 1.38 workers are significantly understaffed. This means that we should strive to actually employ more people, reduce unemployment as much as possible, and if there are more employees, there will also be a greater inflow to the pension fund. It is also worrying that 310 million Euros have unpaid contributions to the pension fund for such and other reasons. Therefore, it is important that Kato remains a single legal person. As long as he continues to carry out the tasks for which he was established. Where, as a single legal person or legal organisation, a sovereign legal person with his or her own management and control authorities may ensure the proper management and nobility of at least portfolio assets intended to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. The preservation of Kad is also meaningful in terms of the commitments adopted by the National Assembly in the framework of the pension reform, namely the creation of a demographic reserve fund which is actually the same as Kad – providing additional resources to finance the pension first pillar. The establishment of the Fund must be carried out under the pension law already this year, but in this law we have set a slightly more realistic deadline by which time the demographic fund will be established and agreed on for 2015. It will be established in a way that will transform Kad into this fund, while other permanent resources will, of course, need to be determined. In doing so, as a source for the demographic fund, it is already stipulated by this law that 10 % of the purchase from the sale of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia is made to a special account at the Ministry of Finance and is used solely for the financing of this fund. There is a rabbit in this bush, because the amendment is to separate it, and we said to separate it into a special account with the Ministry of Finance and then set out for the reserve demographic fund. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss it at 50 b? I do not see a desire for a debate, so I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 51 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Demographic Party. Would anyone like to discuss it? Here you go, Master Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you for the floor, Madam President-in-Office. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party also think it makes sense to call ourselves a compliance officer, because this is in the concept of all major financial companies, this is the need for this person to exercise this control. Of course, we propose that the appointing officer be appointed by the Supervisory Board. Because this officer probably controls all the employees, including the administration. We estimate that such a way would be more transparent and that there would be no possible conflict. While we are already appointing a compliance person, I think it would make sense for the management of the New Ljubljana Bank to read a little bit about the conditions under which it is called competent person to control this in holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this point? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 52 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Would anyone like to discuss it? Here you go, mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u148	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would now like to bring the subject here from the 52nd, 54th, 56th, 59th. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that in this part, the law is largely out of line, so that the matter can be seduced in a much simpler way, as we have proposed in these amendments. We estimate that the annexes or content of this law are excessive, that it already binds the integrity law, and, above all, at these meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, we have pointed out that we see too much over-response also in an item that speaks of a person who will oversee compliance for business, because in the end we will ask ourselves whether the holding company will lead the company or this person. We therefore propose that these articles be deleted and that the content is already laid down in the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I don't see a desire for a debate, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 54 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Would anyone like to discuss it? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 56 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 59 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Would anyone like to discuss it here? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 64 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Would anyone like to discuss it? I don't see a desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 71 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Since I do not see anyone wanting to discuss it, I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to Article 83 and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Emissary Group. Mag. Mushroom, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. We estimate that through the management of state property and because the current coalition has in any way prevented the adoption or enforcement of the Slovenian State Holding Act from replacing the word "three" months with "one" month. I think that the leadership of the Court and the Ministry of Finance at that time have had enough time to prepare these documents. However, we appeal that in the second paragraph next to Kato is added the word link DSU, PDP and Blue Insurance. For what? In order to implement the strategy, the consent of the National Assembly for these three companies is also needed for the sale of assets. It is also written in the existing law. However, I would like to point out here that the greatest fear that this provision should be included in the existing law was that the current President of the Government had a working group, because she said: "We do not trust the government of Janez Janša. After three months of implementation of the strategy, you will sell everything past the National Assembly." I think it would be right, because there is really a possibility here that, in the period until the adoption of the Blue Insurance Strategy, the PDP and the DSU have free access to their assets without the knowledge of the National Assembly. I do not think this is right and I expect the support of the coalition Members for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mrs. Plevčak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Regarding Insurance Triglav would mention that DeSUS agreed that the insurance company was managed by SDH, but provided that the insurer could not sell Triglav without the approval of the National Assembly until a management strategy was in place. Of course, we believe that it would be only right to transfer this share to Kad, that Kad manages and invests a noble and dividend share into a pension fund, and then, by transforming Kad into a demographic fund, the investment in one way or another would be fully transferred to the demographic fund. PIZ’s investment to Triglav was not intended for immediate consumption but for long-term dividend provision. The sale or removal of this share would lose its own additional source of funding. During the negotiations, we have also been able to determine the procedure for the sale of shares and the exercise of voting rights. Where it retains a certain autonomy in the management of assets necessary for the conversion of the Capital Society into a demographic reserve fund. In spite of the continued autonomy of Kad in the management of its capital investments, the new 50th Article ensures that SDH is authorised to manage the procedures for the sale of State property, which is governed by a special contract between SDH and Kad, that the voting in the Assembly is carried out through SDH and that this procedure must be managed with due diligence by the good economic operator and the manager. The voting positions in the companies' assemblies with the capital investment of the State shall be exercised by SDH on behalf of and on behalf of the Capital Company. When and SDH have previously agreed views, the specificities and purpose of the establishment of the Capital Company must be taken into account. Let me also mention that there is a security guard in Article 83 that SDH will not be able to sell insurance companies without the consent of the National Assembly until the investment management strategy is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it under Article 83? Here you go, Mr. Mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u154	Only in explanation to Members and Members of the DeSUS. This SDS amendment is a safeguard for the sale of investments to DSU, PDP and Blue Insurance, as the existing law does not provide for this. This means that until the adoption of the strategy hypothetical DSU, PDP and Blue Insurance can sell their assets completely without the consent of the National Assembly. I propose that this guardian be put in by the approval of the SDS amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 84 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. I'm asking if anyone would like to discuss it. Mag. Mushroom, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u156	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. This is about a security guard again. But it's a security guard, especially for the P.I.S. The SDS here proposes to introduce the so-called top up clause, that is, in the event that the insurance company Triglav is sold within 36 months, that if the selling price is higher than that transfer from the PSIZ to the holding company [[Incomprehensible]] The demographic fund to justify this difference is PPIZ. I think this is fair and that even in most contracts when selling state property this top up clause is included. There may be another explanation here in Article 84 from the Secretary of State, as this is read very strangely. On the one hand there will be a transfer, on the one hand there will be no transfer of the share, but nothing is written under any conditions. I believe that the original proposal did say, but it says here that the provisions of the law governing insurance are not applicable in relation to the transfer and that they relate to the authorisation to obtain a qualified share. But nothing, in any way, or anywhere it's going to be transferred. I'd like an explanation here. At the conclusion of all this, I think that the result of this proposed law and amendment is actually one re-purchase of coalition parties, but that we are far from getting effective and transparent governance of state property through this new law. I think we've already missed the basic point that state property must be concentrated in one place. Here is the blackmail of DeSUS probably, on the one hand, that When you remain a single legal person, when you review certain articles you see that it is independent, on the other hand, management rights or voting matters will be exercised by SDH in the assemblies. I think there's gonna be another conflict here. It seems to me that the key issue in this governance of state property is to transfer everything to one place. Here this law, I believe that it will be adopted by the coalition Members and Members today, will not ensure effective asset management. I believe that the other SDS amendments under the existing policy of the voting machine you are going to the coalition parties will not accept that you will have scissors and canvas in your hands again, but the responsibility is on your side. I think the electorate and the electorate are aware of that. I think that, after today's Constitutional Court decision, all those who voted in favour of the real estate law could have imagined, but I believe that in what position you were in, because the President of the Government put you in a corner and tied a confidant to the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Government Representative, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the question raised with regard to Article 84, as referred to in the transfer. The transfer relates to the transfer of the management of the investment of PSIZ to SDH rather than to the transfer of ownership to SDH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thank you very much. You want a replica? Here you go, Master Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u160	No replica, I'm just checking in.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u161	All right, the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u162	But management then has nothing to do with the provisions of the law governing insurance or obtaining a qualified share. This does not have management, the acquisition of a classified share is linked if there is also a ownership transfer. That was my question. If you give someone something in management, I don't think you need a qualified share that the Insurance Market Authority has to issue. That's what I'm interested in. Here is a major change, as it was in the original. In the original it cost, but now you have deleted that provision on the transfer of ownership to SDH. Just these explanations, if I can still get them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u164	What Mr. Pogačnik said about the 83rd and 84th. Article, it requires some kind of thorough reflection on what to do. I think that we must at least think about these two in the vote, and I am very much inclined to support this amendment as well. As for the debate on what voters and voters think I should say again, this is one part of the replica of absolutely telling myself again, I am aware of my responsibilities when I vote as I myself think it is right. That is how I voted on the real estate tax. I would like to say that the coalition did not out of hatred for the Slovenian people by adopting a law that tried to provide the necessary resources in the budget to cover budgetary spending and everything that had happened before. We have done so that those who have in some way more, that is, some assets, should pay something. And this is what we have been trying to do to provide the missing funds in the budget. Of course, I am aware of all the problems she has had and, of course, the advantages of the opposition, who has acted as she has done. But I don't mind because it's legitimate. But we did it so that we could provide Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens with school, health care, this is what education is called, pensions, and put together a place with a place to live. That was actually our purpose. And whatever the Constitutional Court has already adopted, we will have to provide these missing funds tomorrow in a way that is likely to be more painful than what this has been before. I'm sorry, it's not worth it, but that's what I said was a replica of what Mr. Pogačnik said before.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If he doesn't want to, then I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. That's 15 minutes from 3:00. So I'll see you at the vote. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that we will resume the meeting at 3:30 p.m. That'll be 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u167	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estates by Emergency Procedure. We'll proceed with the second reading. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court has today issued a decision in which it has also ruled on the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, I propose, procedurally, that we postpone the decision on this law to one of the following meetings. I propose this in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I note that no, so I propose that we decide on this procedural proposal. We're voting. 71 Members and Members present, 53 votes against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. In this session, I conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We move on to Article 27 and decide on the amendment of Article 27 of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 28 and decide on the amendment of Article 28 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the 31st Article and decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the 31st Article. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 40 and under point 1 we are deciding on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to Article 40. Here I warn you, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the amendment of Article 40 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u168	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing an amendment to the law concerning membership in the Supervisory Council. It should be pointed out that the existing Slovenian State Holding Act, which has been knowingly broken or stopped by the current coalition for more than a year and a half, stipulates that the so-called opposition also has one representative in the supervisory council. In doing so, it should be noted that the current President of the Government, Alenka Bratušek, requested three representatives in the supervisory board to withdraw the referendum signatures. We now propose that the Supervisory Board should have at least two representatives of the opposition appointed on a proposal from the Commission for the supervision of public finances. It should be stressed that these two members of the Supervisory Board must meet the same conditions as are applicable to all other members, and that this is not a role of politics but of expertise. I hope, given the debate in the National Assembly, when several coalition members have also said that this amendment will support your support. It should be borne in mind that the Government is responsible for the management of state property and that state property is not the property of the Government. I don't know why it would be fear that the opposition would have its own representative in the supervisory council. I think that by confirming this amendment we could come to some consensus, because it is necessary to be aware that the quality and effective management of state property is in the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This would take an important step, and I think it will also show the duality or double criteria of the current coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 40. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 41 and we are deciding on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 41. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're going to 50.b. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 50b. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 51 and decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 51. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 52 and decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 52. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 54 and decide on the amendment of Article 54 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 56 and decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 56. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 to 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 59 and decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 59. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 64 and under point 1 we are deciding on the amendment of Article 64 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the amendment of Article 64 of the SLS Group. Mr Jakob Preseknik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the SLS Group, we have tabled three amendments to the amendments to this law. All three refer to the greater role of the National Assembly. Only one of these, which is the composition of the Supervisory Council, indirectly refers to at least the minimum role of the opposition in the Supervisory Council or in the matter of this Act. In the case of Article 64, as in the previous two, we propose a greater role for the National Assembly. I will also repeat what Mrs Alenka Bratušek, former President of the Commission for Budgetary Control, said at the time when this law was adopted that it is in particular a controversial composition of the Supervisory Board of Holding, as seven out of nine members are appointed by the Government. She also spoke again about all the other articles, where it seemed that the solutions were not correct. And when we propose a greater role for the National Assembly, we simply do not understand why we are all for the fact that the National Assembly has no role to play. I therefore propose that, at least in the second paragraph of Article 64, we provide that SDH report quarterly on the administration of the Government and the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for the financing. As it is said, the quarterly report shall be submitted to the relevant Committee of the National Assembly. I suggest we support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u171	Thank you. The explanation for the vote is mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I was in the task force that was preparing the law when Dr. Janez Šuštersič was Minister of Finance. At that time, the previous government proposed nine members of the Supervisory Committee, two of which should have the opposition and seven positions. At that time, we, together with the current Prime Minister of the Government, sought to have four opposition and five positions, which would be quite balanced, but still the government or position accepts everything it wants. Then there was the referendum initiative and the decision of the Constitutional Court which did not allow it. But I now wonder, all the amendments proposed today are in this direction and make sense. What's going on with us? Do we really not want any control, even though it is useful? I will support this amendment, but it really surprises me that we can change from one year to the next, and if we have previously advocated that the opposition should have control, the role of the National Assembly, and today that is not necessary. I don't know. In six months, a year, two years, another government will be back. What are we gonna do again? I don't see the point in doing that. I really don't. This is a good example of an inadequate part of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you, too. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 37. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 71 and decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 71. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 83 and decide on the amendment of Article 83 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 84 and decide on the amendment of Article 84 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments, and thus I am concluding a second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. With regard to coordination, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mag. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We would like to clarify that, in view of the adoption of the amendment to Article 71 of the Act at the meeting of the home labour body, it is also necessary to amend Article 72 of the Act accordingly, provided that Article 71 of the Law regulates offences committed by natural persons, Article 72 refers to offences committed by legal persons, and this should be duly sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you. Since the Government has warned that the proposal for a law is not harmonised after the third hearing, a harmonisation amendment will be prepared and I therefore interrupt this agenda item for the preparation and publication of the harmonisation amendment on the e-club. The National Assembly estimates that it will take 20 minutes for the submission of the harmonisation amendment. That's how I interrupt the session and continue at 4:00 and 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u176	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian State Holding under the ordinary procedure. I give the floor to the government representative to present it in detail. He doesn't want to. I ask if they want to discuss the harmonisation amendment by Members and Members. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 5. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Mr Marko Pogačnik has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u177	President, thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose the proposed law. We estimate that the existing law is significantly better and that the result of this proposed law is merely the political acquisition of coalition parties and that this law will not provide for more efficient, transparent and better governance of state property. This law has once again shown duality and double criteria for coalition parties, here we are thinking in particular of Prime Minister Alenko Bratušek. Of course, it must be realized that the government is responsible for the performance of state property, but it is not government property. In view of the experience of this coalition, which acts as a voting machine, does not listen to the opposition's proposals, does not listen to the suggestions of the professional public, we will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u178	Havela. The explanation for the vote is mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd still like to explain my voice. I'll vote against the law and I'll tell you why. Look, I think it's the foundation and mission of Parliament to adopt good laws, laws that enable the economy to function well and establish fair relations in society. This marriage is far from that. I believe that a 20-year job failure should be a good enough lesson for me to start working together, but every time a position should listen to the opposition's proposals. Good suggestions, constructive proposals that put in control. This law leaves everything to the full authority of every single government, yet it is the present, former, future and so on. That's wrong. I used to go through this whole Maximarket thing. She played an interesting song. Does it not seem to us that we, in fact, burn something home with every marriage and make some very rich people? I am afraid that this law is exactly the same as the past, which has not been mapped by Slovenia into successful countries. I don't think this marriage deserves support and should be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This moment, while our opposition to this law is irrelevant, it is irrelevant. It's not actually holding, it's AUKN 2, but it's irrelevant now. The coalition actually eliminated the opposition. And that is also irrelevant, because today we are the opposition, tomorrow the opposition will be someone else. But I will never forget the words of the Minister for Finance, Dr. Cuffer, when he came to the opposition to explain this bill, and I finally said that I would rather go on with our law, which was adopted here in the National Assembly at the end of 2012. But that's irrelevant now, too. But I will be among the first, colleagues and colleagues to shake your hand and congratulate you, if you succeed, soon, very soon if you can make a tectonic move in thought and to manage this state property to invite the best managers in the world. I know, once again, that the President of the Government is inclined to do this if the other coalition champions don't make it impossible for her, or if she's just a theater. Only then will I believe that Slovenian state property will be managed better than it has been in all of this self-sustaining history. And only then will I have some hope that foreign capital will come to Slovenia. About €5 billion is needed at this time by the Slovenian economy to push for the production of new 60,000 jobs. The balance is $60,000. It may take 100,000 if 40,000 new, empty jobs with various bankruptcys are created. It will soon be seen whether the ruling coalition understands that it is the management of state property owned by all citizens and citizens, all 2 million and 54 000, as far as we are, and not only owned by these few Members and Members, these few Ministers and Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr Jaka Presečnik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have already talked about, in explaining one of the amendments, that unfortunately we eliminate not only the National Assembly as an institution but we eliminate control, control over the management of state property. And that seems to me a great deal of damage. It was certainly an opportunity to allow this control. Given that you have actually overstepped all these amendments in the coalition, where we would at least have resolved this in a mild way or provided this control, I will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain? On behalf of the groups of Members, we are no longer interested, so we are moving on to an explanation of vote on our own behalf. The voice will explain the Master of Shirtzelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, Secretary of State! I will vote against this law and there are two reasons. The most important thing today is that the coalition has rejected completely all the well-meaning proposals and amendments of the opposition, both the Slovenian People's Party, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party. This means that you have taken into your hands the assets of all citizens and citizens so that you can manage them successfully. After all, it was such a solution and such a way of functioning of this coalition was also seen yesterday before yesterday, a few months ago, a few weeks ago, and the Constitutional Court ruled out whether it was right that well-intentioned proposals were simply rejected due to simple coalition discipline. You simply reject all good suggestions simply because you are disciplined by the coalition. And this is bad for democracy in Slovenia, bad for this national assembly, bad for any positive solutions and for the development of this country. You don't work in a state-of-the-art way. And because you don't work well, you also do things that are unconstitutional. That's the first reason and the most important reason. The second reason is that you have eliminated the solutions that have already been made, because the previous government has already proposed the law, the previous government has also proposed privatisation solutions, including with regard to the operation of the holding company, and you have simply destroyed it. I don't think this holding company is going to start operating until the middle of next year, and [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u186	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? There are many of you, so I suggest you apply for a vote. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u187	In fact, I'm protesting that someone here in this country is saying that the coalition is working unconstitutionally. If I work by my conscience and accept in good faith that the laws are as they should be, and I do everything to make citizens and citizens better, then I strongly protest, Mr President, that this is spoken here in this national assembly, because this way we are constantly talking about something that is not true. We talk about corruption very loudly, but we don't say who it is. We are talking about constitutionality and unconstitutionality, rather than talking about the need to adopt a law and that we have the right to decide as we have decided. Not that someone here is telling me that I'm going to vote. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u188	Mr. Meh, no controversy is allowed in the stage of explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u189	I will vote in favour of the state holding and thus take over all my obligations without anyone giving me a clear constitutionality or unconstitutionality. As I would say, the one who will not support this state-owned holding company is working unconstitutionally. No, he can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you. The word is Mary Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. I must say that I will uphold the law, but I am sorry that we did not start implementing the previous law. I've said this a number of times in my presentation. What's wrong with us? I'm not going to agree to sell all the state property, as predicted. My voice won't be everywhere for, that's the first thing I want to say. The other thing is. The problem is not in state property. The problem is in people, in those who are set up there, and in politics that mixes. Economists know how to work. A lot of people have proved that to us, so you won't convince me. Third, which, when you say, is the world's best managers. Let's take a look at the Bank Claims Management Company. We pay a lot. I haven't even seen the results. And that's why these things won't convince me. But I'm going to support the marriage. However, there will probably be a need for a variety of additions and casual adjustments so that things will turn out the way they should. We have to keep the economy and work to have something of it. That's why we have the property. Same as in your own private property.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-28-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u192	Thank you. We're voting on the law. There are 60 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 17. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Monday, 31. 3. 2014, at 9 a.m. Thank you and goodbye by Monday!
