ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 69th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Žgajner, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Marija Plevčak, Mr Janez Ribič, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Samo Bevk by 2 p.m., Mr. Ivan Simčič, Mr. Darko Jazbec, Mr. Jerko Čehovin, mag. Stanko Stepišnik and Mr. Bojan Starman. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to one. Agenda item — DEFINITIONS OF THE RECOMMENDATION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS COHESIONALLY FINANCED FROM FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVES 2007-2013. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 26 MEPs and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Why did we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party in May, or now this important meeting is taking place in June, which speaks of 11 environmental projects needed for 34 municipalities for more than half a million people in our country? Because we estimate that these projects are feasible, that these projects can be launched immediately, that the municipalities have prepared them to the extent that, of course, they are able to start working immediately and because we are talking poorly to draw on European funds. Moreover, we also believe that these projects are, of course, crucial to ensuring healthy drinking water for more than a quarter of the Slovenian population. In addition, these projects are also extremely important for the recovery of the Slovenian economy. If anyone thinks that we're going to come out of a dump from over-indebted companies by standing at the crossroads of our hands, pointing at banks, not knowing who else and thinking that this is going to fix itself, of course, he's wrong. These environmental projects, which have already been implemented by some and which can be implemented, including these 11 concrete projects, can also represent an extremely high potential to revive the construction sector, a number of service activities, trade and transport, and so on, all in some way linked to the construction sector. In short, these environmental projects, these healthy drinking water projects carry, of course, the basic mission to provide healthy drinking water to more than a quarter of the population, including an important economic impulse at a time when the economy is facing a difficult situation when there is a shortage of work and, of course, every such project is more than necessary. We have already launched a debate on this subject in April this year in the Slovenian Democratic Party. On the basis of this debate, we have received the government's promise, specifically the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Government's Cohesion Policy Service, that the solution will certainly be found to comb through all projects that are running, to look at possible savings or unexploited resources in these projects, to provide for a phase in the implementation of projects, so that some of the existing projects are implemented in the current or in the perspective of 2007–2013 and part of the projects 2014-2020. And what happened until today? Nothing, actually. And that's why we called the meeting back. Since we would like to point out again that it would be irrational, it would actually be foolish to waste this opportunity when we have as many as 11 projects waiting only for a government decision to co-finance these projects. And what are these projects? I think it is right to say them and repeat them, because they are throbbing, as I said, 34 congregations and over half a million Slovenes. It is a hydraulic improvement of the water system in the area of central Dolenjska, Novo mesto with surroundings. Supply of drinking water in the upper Sava area, second unit, Radovljica municipality. It is the supply of drinking water to Ljubljana, the first set, and of course the same supply of drinking water to Ljubljanica second set. Supply of drinking water in the area of Sodražica, Ribnica, Kočev, distinguished President of the National Assembly. Supply of drinking water in the area of Domžale-Kamnik. Drinking water supply in the dry landscape area. The dry landscape says, it seems to me that this project is more than necessary. Drinking water supply in the Drava area, third unit. Disposal and treatment of waste water in the Ljubljana field aquifer area, first set. Disposal and treatment of wastewater in the aquifer area The Ljubljana Field, a second complex, and of course the removal and treatment of waste water in the Domžale-Kamnik area. I even listed a bunch of municipalities, areas, whole areas, because water systems are also being built for a number of municipalities that are actually important and which, in the opinion of the proponents, the Slovenian Democratic Party, should be built in one way or another. They need to be built, whether we have European funds or we have integral resources, that is the real means of the Slovenian budget. These are projects that are simply essential because they provide healthy drinking water to people. And when I was Mayor of Brežice in 2002, we had as our first priority in all investments to provide healthy drinking water to a wide range of people. This was before the paved roads, in front of public lighting, in front of sidewalks, in front of sewers, in front of other investments. We thought that was the first priority of investment. I think it is also and that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment should also be aware of this. But what happened? From the April session to today, it was only that the government, perhaps in a panic two days ago, adopted a decision that was mildly misleading and dangerous for the congregations that were part of the project. From the public reports, from the public performances of both the Minister for the Environment and the President of the Government, it was important to understand, if you start with these projects, whether we have no money for these projects or we have no allocated money and we don't know where we're going to take this money, but you start what's going to be. Our decision is binding that, of course, we will prioritise these projects into a new financial perspective, and this is it. To put it mildly, I have been in a number of governments, and I tell you that such a decision by the Government leads to the illegal conduct of the congregations and to the dangerous when we speak of the financial situation, the dangerous work of the congregations. Because if the municipalities took over and signed contracts with contractors to start works on these 11 projects, this would, of course, mean that they would also assume contractual obligations for the financially non-closed construction of these projects. All of these projects involve around 85% of national or European funds, 15% of own resources. Tell me how a congregation, a small congregation, will take the risk of this if there is no future collapse and there is no money and the contract will be signed. In fact, even in accordance with the regulations, it must not be signed until the financial structure is closed. Your Honor, this pear government, we solved the problem, is dangerous. Especially dangerous when the government only does business on a liquid basis and wants to reconcile mayors and people with some seemingly maneuvers. So I'm just wondering, Minister, how many mayors will follow your instructions, go to projects, sign contracts, and start projects. Perhaps only those who are already implementing the project, or this water project is part of another project that is already under way. This is the case, for example, in the Municipality of Škofljica and perhaps elsewhere, when they are already operating the sewage network and will, of course, continue with this project because part of the work is already done. The fact that the problem is even greater is part of the uncertainty of financing these 11 environmental projects, also linked to the current financial perspective, 2014-2020. We are in June 2014, so for almost half a year we have stepped into a new financial perspective where we have a few billion Euros available, that is to say defined, but we do not have the key documents to start drawing on these funds. We don't have a partnership agreement, we don't have an operational programme. We are all aware of how important investments in technological developments are in human resources, but at the same time we have not provided the relevant documents so that they can draw on the funds that are waiting for us in Brussels and which these projects are waiting for. That's unacceptable! We are dealing with problems in the integral part of the budget, when we are running out of money for all – children's school transports, for education, for regular maintenance of roads, for railways, at the same time millions, for tens of thousands, for hundreds of millions of euros in Brussels, and we cannot prepare or even prepare such documents as the European institutions refuse, tear us apart because they are inadequate. The same is true of this strategic document, which is called the Smart Specialisation Strategy. So, Your Honor, you're inoperable! You have projects waiting for you, you have European money waiting for you, and we are here in Parliament to remind you of that, and you are not doing anything or insufficient to do anything in nature at all. And you come up with certain conclusions to people who are supposed to calm them down, even deceive them, and say that this is the solution to the problem. In the opposition or the motioners, we also have a proposal on how to solve this problem and we have also said it several times and I will repeat it again. Without delay, decisions of the co-financing decision for these projects, 7 plus 4, could also be signed on the basis of these contracts, and would, of course, be committed in these co-financing decisions to allocating funds from the financial perspective 2007-2013 in view of the remaining ones that will definitely be from the new financial perspective 2014-2020. And if there is not enough money in the past financial perspective and the existing money, the funds for this will be provided from the integral part of the budget. This is the only way we can drive these projects forward, because we have to do them anyway. These projects need to be done, or someone thinks that none of these projects need be done. Tell me which one, specifically. And in the wake of this, of course, it would also be worth the effort in the documents awaiting reception in Brussels, in particular in the operational programmes, that European funds will be sufficient to do so and that these documents will also be finally burned and confirmed, not that we always get the ball back from Brussels, that we are incompetent or that we do not have the documents. Our problem, or better said problem with the current government, is that it cannot prepare documents and even fewer operational implementations of concrete projects. Therefore, we advise, seriously advise the government to take these signals seriously and finally do something in this area by the biggest opposition party. If necessary, it shall also bring a law to Parliament that will operationalise the possibility of implementing these projects. Not that you are waiting for the time to pass and that the congregations that have chosen the contractors who have given guarantees that all these efforts will fail and that these investments will wait for the future government, which can happen even longer than we all think together. The main intention of the applicants was that the conclusions or recommendations which were, unfortunately, entirely rejected yesterday at the meeting of the home labour body in order to reach the implementation of these projects as soon as possible. Clearly, the current coalition, which is in one way or another composed of such and other unrelated groups, does not care, so she rejected the whole thing. He also has no idea how to do this, and so we will wait and watch this impossible situation continue. I hope that today's debate will at least help to raise the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Government for Cohesion Policy to wake up and finally do something operational on these 11 environmental projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u3	Thank you. The proposal for a recommendation is 10. 6. 2014 and 11. 6. 2014 discussed by the Committee on the Economy. Since the Committee did not adopt parts of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Vice-President of the Committee noted that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the working body meeting had been completed. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Franc Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, nice greeting! The Committee on the Economy is at its 54th emergency meeting, 10. 6. 2014, and on the 1st meeting of the urgency of the 54th meeting, 11. 6. 2014 as a parent working body treated the above-mentioned proposal for a recommendation. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants to the proposal for a recommendation within a time limit. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the Service had no concrete comments on the proposal for a recommendation, but pointed out that the two points of the proposal were very similar to the points of the recommendation adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 29 April 2014. Representatives of the Association of Slovene municipalities and mayors of individual Slovenian municipalities participated in the discussion, which warned that the municipality could not start carrying out projects because they did not have a covered financial structure. The need for early decision-making for prepared projects was expressed and the fear was expressed that individual municipalities would also have to repay European funds for projects. The participants called for the adoption of measures by the Government to complete those projects in a timely manner. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed the need to take effective measures to implement the 11 projects mentioned above. The view was expressed that the Government should issue decisions to enable municipalities to draw on the missing portion of the funds from the past financial perspective and the rest of the necessary funds from the new financial perspective. Individual members of the Committee objected to the decision to sign the decisions without prior confirmation of all necessary programming documents. The discussion also expressed the need for a government commitment to provide a guarantee to the municipalities, and after seeking leverage, that municipalities with problematic projects would agree to the division of projects into phases. At its 1st meeting, the Committee first identified, at its 54th meeting, the first three points of the proposal for a recommendation to be discussed at the meeting on 10 June 2014. The members of the committee of those points of the proposal did not adopt the recommendation. In the debate on points 4 and 5 of the proposal, the representatives of the local communities stressed that all Members, both the Government and the mayors, are responsible for finding solutions together to the environmental project situation. Therefore, government representatives are expected to provide very clear answers on the issue of decisions that would enable local communities to draw on the missing part of European funds. The Committee voted on points 4 and 5 of the proposal and also, unfortunately, did not adopt it. As additional material, members of the committee received a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia for the amendment of the new point of the proposal for a recommendation inviting the Government to continue discussions with the mayors of those municipalities where there is doubt that the projects will be completed in time. In addition, the phase of project implementation under the methodology of the Government Development Service and the European Cohesion Policy would be re-proposed. As the proposed amendments to the Committee were withdrawn, the Committee did not vote on them. The proposal for an amendment to the Committee for a new point, the proposal for a recommendation was also submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group again. It was suggested that the government should be up to 30. In June 2014, it ensured that decisions were taken to allocate funds from the past and the new financial perspective for seven projects for which the Government found that there were no obstacles to their implementation. Unfortunately, the Committee's amendment was also not adopted. Since parts of the proposal for a recommendation on the implementation of environmental projects co-financed by the cohesion funds of the financial perspective 2007-2013 were not adopted on the home labour body, the Rules of Procedure of the Commission for Rules of Procedure of 9 May 2007-2013, based on the interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure, have not been adopted on the home labour body. 12. 2009 deals with the proposal for a recommendation on the parent’s working body completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u5	Thank you, too. For an introductory explanation of the Government's opinion, I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment who carries out the current business, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and other Members present! Just in the field of environmental cohesion, the government, which is currently leaving, has shown how effective it is. That's what you have to say, and since the words don't say much, I'll talk to you with the numbers. Environment cohesion in Slovenia for the period ending, 2007–2013 according to principle M + 2, amounts to exactly the agreed amount of money, that is €548.5 million. At the end of 2012 and at the beginning of 2013, it was not only used very low, nor were there co-financing contracts. For most of the cohesion in the period under review, there were no co-financing contracts. If my predecessor had not taken some urgent steps at the end of 2012, environmental cohesion would have been a lost opportunity for Slovenia in early 2013. But then what do we have to do in 2013 and 2014? To bring all procedures to a close, to issue co-financing contracts from 200 million to 650 million, which is at present, and the annexes are also signed so that the co-financing contracts will be €680 million. Why am I telling you, honourable Members, these numbers? In order for all of us to understand together that we have the money at our disposal for $548.5 million, the co-financing contracts are also due to the overcommitment already adopted, which will be even more so at this point. This difference is the difference that allows us to come into the next perspective safely. We know we can't take advantage of more than 548.5 from the old perspective and we will need a transfer. However, this difference of almost 100 million allows us, even though some projects may be risky and are described — a lot less than these differences — but do not affect the use of European money. At this moment, ladies and gentlemen, if you acknowledge what is difficult before the elections, we are seeing economic growth in Slovenia. I believe you've read the explanation, I believe you've read that we've had 37% growth in construction activity in this area in the first three. If you look at the position of Umar – what do you find? They're talking about environmental projects. I'm saying this because you say the government doesn't do anything. Because of what the government has done in 2013, we have at this moment, including 12 Mr Bogovich, and 13 also, I do not speak like this here, that nothing has been done under you, they say so here. In 2013 we now have growth in economic activity. What does the growth of economic activity mean, ladies and gentlemen? Additional revenue in the budget to enable the State to finance public services, which it must finance. Due to successful environmental cohesion, the following is being built or already built: a million 195 thousand 451 meters of water pipes. Because of what is currently being built, ladies and gentlemen, 400 000 people in Slovenia will receive more stable and safer water supply. That's not all it takes, but that's what's happening right now. At the moment, 43 cleaning plants and 621 thousand 150 population units are being built in Slovenia, we can translate this into residents, cleaning options, so for 600,000 people we can clean more than has been cleaned up so far. Also because we build 672 kilometers of such or other water lines for dirty water. At the moment, defensive embankments are being built in Slovenia. At this point, we have two large systems to protect 33,000 people from high waters. At the same time, this is also environmental cohesion, a 33 million Beaver project is being successfully implemented to allow us to more accurately predict the various climate disasters, and this also protects the property of people in particular. Together, honourable Members and Members, we are aware that in that 2012 call, which made available to new environmental projects, the reserve, because old decisions are poorly implemented, made available EUR 182 million. And we are all probably aware that the EUR 500 million project, the first part, of the poor 200 million, was realized. These are projects that are being built, and these are projects that help economic growth. It is not true that there are only 11 projects without decisions. There are even more projects in the country that are ready. However, the adoption process stopped when they found that money simply from the old perspective was no longer available. The fact is that these 11 projects we are talking about are projects run by municipalities. The municipalities have already invested money in this. At this point, I think 6 to 7 million in such and other necessary documents and permits. These are also projects that have building permits, and these are projects where guarantees run. If you remember those who were present on the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment less than a month ago, when we had a very thorough discussion, well-intentioned, not politically, what to do to avoid some risks. That's when we made some arrangements. We agreed to re-examine all the projects in the phase as at the end of 2013. We agreed on a deadline, too. This deadline was 15, and this process is over. We made some other arrangements. And one of these things was to give a clear legal basis that those who already invest because some already invest that it is clear that they can be from 1. 1. 2014 eligible costs arising, understood and then reimbursed as their participation in cohesion projects. There's something else we've agreed on. To find a legal way that when a new perspective begins, it will not take a year, two or three to submit applications, that applications be assessed to issue decisions and then co-financing contracts, because they would have been empty for just two or three years. And let's take a look, the government's competent service, other areas of cohesion, if there's some money. As you have probably understood, there are €548.5 million in environmental cohesion. At this point in time, the signed contracts, co-financing, amount to €650 million. In the blackest scenario on this part, some money is running out. What did the government do? We talked to the municipalities relatively much, talked to the mayors, looked for ways together. Everyone understood that the ideal way to make decisions in advance for something that is not yet is illegal. It is impossible to issue a decision on a source that is not yet available. The question was raised whether the Government had sent a late operational programme to Brussels. He's not here. We know when the deadline was. End of April. Our program is being coordinated right now. I believe the government service works very well to coordinate it in the coming weeks. However, since the gabarits are known, it already allows us to informally coordinate the applications we currently have. What is the solution that the government also found in agreement with the congregations through the decisions adopted the day before yesterday? That's the solution. The projects are listed by name to fear that they will not be a priority in order to eliminate this fear. That's what we did. It's the other way around. There is also a clear commitment to take account of the costs from 1 January 2014, of course those eligible. It is clear that, I assume that projects that are under way and relying on new cohesion, that the mayors who signed this have signed only to the extent that they have the financial resources at their disposal because they are already being built at this point. I guess they didn't sign contracts without funding. What gives the document adopted by the government gives the legal basis for them to be able to repay when these projects become cohesion projects. What is most important, however, is that no one mentions it, we have found a legal solution to withdraw this empty two-year reflection. That's the worst fear. What to do is that the two-year period will not be empty for the whole process to be repeated. This solution, which is clearly written inside, is the following. The roles that are at the Ministry – you know, the Ministry has already reviewed these applications – were correct, we have given them to the service, the one that is the administrative authority, we are not the administrative body, we are just the technical body. When the managing authority found that the money was simply gone, he said so. We have been banned from any further activities, and these roles have also been returned to us. On the basis of this Decision and the current stages of the negotiations on the operational programme, these applications are reviewed as regards the relevance of the new perspective, which is a so-called informal review, which is common. This is also the way Slovenia works towards the European Community, but it is now a way of working between the municipalities and between the country. At this time, until the operational programme is adopted, after the assurance of those responsible it will be the autumn of this year, time will allow us to complete, if necessary, the application where necessary, but not if necessary, no new role will be required, and when the official operational programme at European Union level is confirmed, this allows us to complete the formal procedure as soon as possible. And that allows us to then, as soon as possible, submit these applications to a body which can issue decisions on the allocation of funds. You are aware that both the President and I have said that this time is, in reality, the first quarter of the next year. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a great desire for decisions to be made immediately. Decisions that do not have a financial resource provided, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, you understand that they are illegal. At the moment, it is also not possible to issue decisions on a new financial perspective because the documents have not yet been signed. I have to tell you, when we spoke with the mayors, most of their fears were resolved by the conclusions that were adopted. However, there is no legal basis at this point in time that, unless, of course, you want to go to the budget balance or anything like that, you must also make that clear, because you are the one who keeps saying that it is necessary to save, unless it is going to the budget balance and the money is provided from the integral part of the budget. At this point, we only talk about time limits, we talk about time limits for about half a year, and the solution is known. Allow me to say in the end that environmental cohesion did not start well in 2007, but this is not about finding the culprits, because it was the first such project that the country led with the European Commission. The decisions were then issued in the way they were. That method of decision-making resulted in all investments ending at the end of the financial perspective under principle N + 2. That's not good for two reasons. The first reason is that the construction operation in Slovenia also makes it good to have investments as linearly as possible – because I am the Minister of Agriculture, I can say – similar to the rural development programme. Secondly, if all investments are made in the end, of course there is fear, what if one of the investments falls. Therefore, this difference is between $548.5 million and these 680 million of the co-financing contracts signed. The way the government has now set up allows for something else. This enables most investment money to be spent even in the first half of the next cohesion. Unlike the rural development programme, which has been well negotiated, the amount of money is approximately similar, unlike direct payments to agriculture, which have been well negotiated, where the amount of money is similar to now, but it is only necessary to say that cohesion has been poorly negotiated. So far, we have had €4.2 billion at our disposal, then you have negotiated, and now we have €3.3 billion for new cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u7	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Robert Hrovat has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, it's a shame you'll leave us. There are several reasons for calling an extraordinary meeting. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we rightly fear that some projects due to the poor part of the government will not be possible to complete. Even more fear comes from projects that have run out of money. First of all, three Slovenian regions that wanted to build regional waste management centres with the help of European money. In Koroška, Styria and Zasavje, they are threatened with not being able to access European money for paperwork. It is the Regional Waste Management Centre of Koroška, where waste will be disposed of by all 12 municipalities of Koroška. It is then the Regional Waste Management Centre of the Stajer Region, in which the municipalities of Slovenska Bistrica, Makola, Poljčane, Oplotnica, Rače-Fram, Slovenske Konjice, Vitanje do obluča Zreče. And also the Regional Waste Management Centre in Zasavje, where the municipalities of Hrastnik, Litija, Radeče, Trbovlje and Zagorje near Savi will dispose of the waste. The problem is the acquisition of environmental permits. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we ask what the competent Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Minister of Mags are doing. In spite of the promise that within their own budget they will check the possibility of redistributing resources to clean water supply and wastewater treatment projects. Hereinafter, a little more about 11 projects prepared for construction, which are still not known whether the last one will raise enough money in this European financial perspective. This is a total of EUR 236 million in municipal infrastructure projects, which, six months from the choice of operators and the acquisition of legal permits, the State has still not issued a decision on the allocation of funds to start drawing on cohesion money, which is also the first condition for the subsequent signing of the co-financing agreement. Earlier, on behalf of the candidates, colleague Vizjak had already told us which projects were involved. It is the supply of drinking water, and this is the area of 34 Slovene municipalities. This is a huge area. And, of course, also for waste water disposal and treatment projects. We had five meetings on this subject, and we have not taken a step further. Minister Židan signed an agreement on these projects, which means that the mayors were promised to receive funds. 6. 9. they were all ready-to-go projects, according to the red book, they were selected contractors, construction permits, contractors gave bank guarantees, so they guaranteed money. And then what happened? Nothing. Nothing happened. The municipalities were waiting for the government to wake up. And four. The 4th of April this year was followed by a shock, a shock for the mayors, even after Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek told the mayors of 34 municipalities in January that he supported these projects and would order Minister Židan and Minister Čufar to find an appropriate solution to the situation as soon as possible. So, what kind of shock? On 4 April this year, the mayors received a notice that these 11 projects were being abolished. Do you imagine, first of all, that Minister of the Jews would give them the consent and the promise of money, and within a few months when the projects are ready, the building permits obtained and the contractors are ready, and they would simply let these 34 congregations down. At that time, the mayors associated themselves with a joint statement asking for the government's help. They are asking the government, but unfortunately there was no listening, so they first came across the hearings of the opposition members. Since then, five meetings have been held in the National Assembly, and various committees and plenary sessions have already been on this subject, i.e. on the issue of drawing on cohesion funds. The Ministry of Agriculture and Minister Židan has resisted for a long time, and only now that he realizes that he needs to be liked if you want any vote in the elections, has he come to terms with his mistake. Why am I saying this? In fact, on 23 April, at the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, the Ministry said this, and I quote from the magnetogram: "The option is for municipalities to start because they have projects prepared, to carry out these projects with their own resources, in the end they must have such a share of co-financing, but these distinctions between Slovenia and Europe must ultimately be, it is not necessary that in every situation, because at the moment the legal basis arises," and now attention, "which is not – for a new financial perspective, are essentially activities that will be assessed as eligible, justified from 1 January of this year ahead." And I go on: "There is a probability, therefore, but there is no guarantee within the meaning of some paper that this will be repaid or that it will be justified," attention, "because there is no legal basis for this. The legal basis will arise as soon as the European Commission issues a decision to approve the new operational programme." That was said at the meeting in April. Well, before yesterday's press conference, Alenka Bratušek, Prime Minister, and Minister of the Jews, where they solemnly announce that they have found a solution for 11 environmental projects. But look now, Minister Židan said at the press conference: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives the opportunity for municipalities to continue their projects on their own and maintain valid building permits and guarantees." This statement is like someone making a fool out of mayors. Following this press conference, Minister Židan says that the operational will be as follows: "Decisions, if there is any more money in the old perspective, will appear old, if there is not enough room, will be issued for a new perspective." How? In what way, if there is no operational programme at all? The programme must be adopted at European Union level. And now, if you notice the difference between the statement on April 23rd and yesterday, nothing has practically changed from April 23rd to today, except that there was no legal basis then, and before yesterday it was miraculously discovered by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. Look, it's a pure delusion. Either it was deceiving April or it was deceiving itself two days ago. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that it is a pre-election move to silence the mayors with some oral commitment that something will happen if it does. With the agreement, the government wanted to buy peace during the pre-election campaign, realizing that someone else would definitely deal with the problem below. Well, after yesterday's meeting of the Committee on the Economy, it is clear that all the mayors of 34 municipalities have also discovered the fraud of Minister Židan and Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. They require immediate action. And the decision of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which unfortunately was not adopted at yesterday's meeting, would certainly solve this embarrassment. The European funds will not be exhausted, the projects will fail, the contractors have already announced that they will sue the municipalities, and it is also incomprehensible that the government service has rejected the mayor's proposal to divide the projects into phases. Slovenia's failure to draw on European funds is also seen in the lack of national strategies and clear priorities in all areas. Economists also point out that the worst thing that can happen to us is that the European Commission considers that we do not have a prepared strategy and documents that are the basis for drawing on European funds in the future financial perspective, which it has also pointed out on a recent visit to Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we ask whether our Government is even capable of preparing documents that meet the European Commission's standards. Does our government even know what it wants to achieve with the European billions? We're sure as hell not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Ms Aleksandra Osterman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Positive Slovenia Group, we are certainly the first to want to do everything we can to implement the 11 environmental projects on overcommitment or additional spending rights co-financed by cohesion funds immediately. However, the so-called overcommitment unfortunately means that the funds will only be released when one of the beneficiaries, who for objective reasons will not be able to complete the project, has returned the decision or the project to phase. In Positive Slovenia, we understand the plight of mayors who have projects ready to be implemented and have already invested a lot of resources to prepare the documentation, and on the other hand, some projects that have decisions and funds provided threaten to fail to complete the projects in a timely manner and will have to repay the funds. The municipalities waiting only for the decisions shall have all the building permits obtained and the legal entities selected, and the projects shall be approved by the intermediate body. At this point, we point out once again to the municipalities that they are in an unenviable position, because without decisions they cannot sign a contract with operators with high costs for the extension of bank guarantees, and the municipalities cannot run for other projects because they have a full quota of bank guarantees with these projects. The only option they have left is to invest their own resources and hope for a pleasant breakup. Sadly, though, small congregations cannot afford to do so. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia, we believe that it is crucial at this point that the mayors of municipalities who are lagging behind with the dynamics of the project recognize the danger of late completion of the investment and divide the projects according to the methodology they have developed on their website and also published by the Government of Development and European Cohesion Policy. While we believe that the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy, which is responsible for ensuring the effective use of cohesion funds, would also like to issue additional decisions for the said 11 environmental projects under additional spending rights, as well as for the municipalities, it is committed to operating within the framework of legislation. While the government service is also committed to proactive action, a number of decisions have been taken on the working bodies of the National Assembly regarding the absorption of cohesion funds. Like local communities, Members and Members are also aware of the importance of clean water supply, wastewater treatment and municipal waste management. Following the assurance of the competent ministries and government of the service, several times have been issued recently and extensive discussions have been held with the representatives of the beneficiaries. In Positive Slovenia, we want such a proactive solution to problems to continue, because this is the only way to achieve positive results. We regret, however, that such important topics are used to gain political points for all of us. Therefore, in the light of the common interest of Slovenia, we appeal again to everyone responsible to continue the talks and find an appropriate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u11	Thank you, too. And Mr Srečko Meh will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u12	Good-bye, ladies and gentlemen! This is another session in a series of those that the SDS produces to make use of the media space and to lead propaganda, which I feel is completely unnecessary to discuss the same things for hours and hours. Finally, we spoke on the committee five hours before midnight, and yesterday afternoon, three more hours, where we had reached conclusions so far that we could also unanimously confirm the conclusions, where, for example, the National Assembly proposes and expects the Government to ensure the issuance of decisions from the means of the present and the new financial perspectives for the seven projects and we have listed them, because the SDS insists on the date of 20 and 30. 6. 2014 which, of course, was not possible under any circumstances. I just want to say that citizens and citizens also know, and those who are watching us, but I hope they are not doing this, that we are prepared to adopt those decisions that would somehow enable the legal functioning and legal work of the Slovenian government and of course the mayors. We were aware that there could be greater difficulties in implementing the projects. I believe that we have listened to the Minister's resignation today, as you like to say, and that we have heard everything he has said and the state of environmental projects. I believe that you have also heard that you have understood that the Slovenian Government has adopted those conclusions which it has been able to adopt on request, and the SDS, those five requests, and that it has also responded to them. Today we are making new demands. Therefore, it is unacceptable for someone to call on the Slovenian government and Slovenian citizens and do not tell citizens that it is illegal to make decisions today, without financial coverage in the back. And I don't think we should do that. Let me put it another way, I thought it was good that Slovenian mayors, these 34 mayors or municipalities spoke to the Slovenian government. Who else can they talk to, please? With us, here in the National Assembly? We are a legislative body, we are a body that must control, adopt laws, guidelines and control how the Government implements. And now, here with the mayors, we're talking about what kind of project the mayor is going to do, and this was a debate with us on the committee. Instead of making room for discussion and agreement with the government, with the services that do. And we should control whether he does it or not. And if today, on behalf of the Slovenian government, the Minister in Dejan Židan's resignation says that all the projects run, that we have at least 250 million more signed contracts than we have the resources at our disposal, and that this is all from the budget of the state of Slovenia, then I think that it has been answered to all those expectations or I cannot say as I would say in Velenj, that the means will not be spent, that the funds are free, that we will not spend them, and that the financial perspective is not well managed at this point either. That is why I think it is a position because it was said here that the position does not care how it runs, but the opposition cares, I can also say that I still care that in every Slovenian home or other home in the Slovenian region, there is healthy and drinking water. But know, ladies and gentlemen, these projects have been running since 2007. Since 2007, we have been talking about how we will bring water to Slovenian villages and villages or bring water to all homes, and we have not done so until today. We didn't do it until now. Who's responsible for this? The Slovenian government is responsible, but the mayors are also responsible. Every mayor for his own area, because he didn't do what he was supposed to do at the right time. Of course, let me say this: today we are discussing the recommendations that we are making to the Slovenian government in some way and the state of the reports that we have received at least five times with a very strong argument and which we are constantly repeating and also having them in writing. Let me say, of course, that the interview was carried out with nine municipalities or nine projects, seven very concretely, and that none of those with whom we have spoken agree to the phase and not to the fact that the funds could be used in the next financial perspective. So, all the mayors ensure that the funds are spent to the spot. Let me repeat once again what has been said today and on the Committee several times that in 2007 we signed contracts for 540 million in which it is not possible to terminate the contract until it is accepted, refused or refused. Besides, it's impossible to terminate this contract. That's what our Law-Legal Service told us, but it's Members and Members of Parliament, you know. However, it is also right to tell citizens and citizens that it was then – for what reason – that someone else should be asked, as was the case of course. Let me say again that, in funding these 11 Janšev projects, the government allocated €180 million from the budget and other projects in October 2012 for use in 2013 and 2015. In such a way that additional projects could ensure the scope of implementation and that the Slovenian government could receive a return from the euro budget of all 540 million in 2015. Let me repeat, you have heard the Minister in Dejan Jedhan's resignation that 540 plus 180 plus 100 million contracts have been signed and that this will be a reality after all these assurances. However, it is important that the rules were made easier in 2012 and that a substantial number of projects were put in place as a result of this municipality than the funds were allocated at the time. In 2012, 180 million funds were earmarked for the projects and 500 million for the projects. It is said that 320 million projects were more than the funds provided, ladies and gentlemen. At the time of the call for these projects, we had only €180 million. Today, however, we are talking about someone having to cover the difference that was not covered in 2012. That's why I think we should look at ourselves, sometimes in the mirror, not because of beauty, but because of seeing whether we're telling the truth or whether it's all the way it's supposed to be. And one more thing to say is that there were no rules for additional proposals adopted in 2012. Let me also say that the issue of decisions in 2013 has been under the burden of the Slovenian budget up to €180 million available, and that is probably what we are talking about all the time. There are no other available projects for the EU of rights, no other resources actually available. They're all assigned by decisions. Even for bad rights, they have never been taken away and could not be taken away because of the absence of legal protection clauses. Of course, the question is whether it was intentional or accidental, but perhaps today is not the time. In the previous review of the use of cohesion funds, the Minister promised 11 projects that the government with the competent mayors of local communities would check all approved projects, positions, phases. We have received this report, ladies and gentlemen, of course also to all other citizens and citizens, once again, that we have received a report on the possible implementation of phased projects. So it's an interview report with the mayors. All the mayors signed a document stating that the phase was not possible and that they would carry out the projects by 2015 or by the date which was also written in the contract. The problem is also, of course, because the municipalities have therefore undertaken to prepare projects in a larger amount than is available, but, of course, reserve funds have been available for cohesion. Do you know where the spare money was allocated? In 2012, the reserve money was distributed by the government led by Janez Janša to other projects that were then given the advantage, not to projects that were needed, about which we are currently shouting, for water-supply projects. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, on the basis of the conclusions of the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture and the Environment and the recommendations adopted by the National Assembly, carried out in addition to regular other activities. I can also list them, i.e. additional activities, as part of a comprehensive analysis of the situation on projects and assessments of the risk of individual projects. The joint assessment of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Service’s professional services is that there is a risk potential on 9 projects. I said that, with all these projects or project managers, and that they are everywhere, there is also a record, there are written conclusions that projects will be implemented and that the phase is not actually possible. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when considering the state of implementation of environmental projects, has also addressed the issue of projects prepared by municipalities and has prepared documentation, which is what we are talking about today, in order to speed up the launch of works on these projects and to avoid the risk that already issued spatial regulation permits for construction, bank guarantees and everything else will come into play immediately. Here too, Minister Dejan Židan said that, of course, at the level of the funds that the congregations have. In doing so, the Government has made sure that, as has been said here today, and I say that we have heard, as soon as possible, the decisions for the 2014-2020 perspective will also be issued and if there are any resources left for the 2007-2013 perspective also for this area. This proposal was in some way coordinated with the mayors. How the mayors understood them and how the government understood them today we can discuss here, but in every way reading newspaper articles, reading all that the newspapers said, commenting on individual conclusions is a comment that does not belong in this room. It can only be somewhere else. Here we have the conclusions of the Government, where the Government has adopted those conclusions that it can adopt, which it can accept without violating. And if we are saying that this government is in a retreat, that it has, of course, limited decision-making options and all that, then it seems really inappropriate for us to suggest to it that it should take something for the next government or for the next perspective, although it may be the same for the most part, and it would have nothing to do with it. Therefore, I should also say that in order to comply, but we must be aware of everyone and it has been said today that, in order to comply with our projects with the European legal order and the conditions for co-financing these projects, a review should also be provided from the point of view of the environmental assessment, and that is also what all those responsible know. The government has therefore commissioned the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Government of Development and European Cohesion Policy to prioritise these projects for funding under the 2014-2020 Multiannual Financial Framework. If the decision of the Slovenian Government is valid and if a written decision is taken and concerns something else is taken, if the Government, in its resignation today, has concluded that these eleven projects are to be prioritized in the financial perspective 2014-2020, if today the applicants of this meeting at the National Assembly doubt that this is a sufficient decision, then, of course, it is extremely questionable, ladies and gentlemen, whether the conclusions of the individual government are still valid or does anyone else have anything else in mind. I, of course, think that the decision of the Slovenian Government to include these projects in 2014-2020 and, if anything remains appropriate and, of course, legal in 2007-2013, the one that the Slovenian government can accept. That is also why we understand the conclusions as they were written. The conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which it has adopted in the field of the environment, also state which components are possible, must be implemented, of course, also in terms of the maintenance of public contracts and related bank guarantees. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat this. Today, on any committee, in any party, any party we discuss any operational programme and in this operational programme, we design, we make decisions, we talk about how much resources we will spend anywhere, and we do not have those powers. This jurisdiction is vested in the Slovenian government or the appropriate agency. Therefore, it is my recommendation that if the mayors do not understand if they are not ready, if they are not sure – and I understand them – they should continue their discussions with the Slovenian government in this case so far as they can believe and that they will be able to implement the projects. Let me repeat, we think that this meeting is unnecessary, but it is not inappropriate. In fact, when I was leaving, a very nice person told me, by the way, "Do you have a National Assembly?" I said, "We have a meeting of the National Assembly." She said, "Yes, this is going to be a propaganda show today." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Alenka Pavlič will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u14	The implementation of environmental projects co-financed by cohesion funds from the 2007-2013 financial perspective is not new. Only here in the National Assembly did we consider her several times in the last assembly. Last time we discussed it at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 29 April 2014 and several times at emergency meetings of the committees, including the Joint Committees. And if I count some of these treatments. At the Committee on European Union Affairs on 30 May 2014, when we discussed the report on drawing on European Cohesion Policy funds 2007-2013 for the period January-March 2014. At the Committee on the Economy on 28 April 2014, when we discussed the proposal for recommendations concerning the suspension of payments of cohesion funds. At the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment on 23 April 2014, when we addressed the issue of drawing on European funds from the 2007-2013 programming period in the field of environmental infrastructure, with a focus on 11 rejected applications for drinking water supply and wastewater treatment projects. At the joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Union Affairs on 19 February 2014, when we addressed the request for a meeting of urgency entitled Is Slovenia on the right track by drawing on European cohesion funds? On 15 October 2013, we discussed the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy in the Republic of Slovenia during the 2007-2013 programming period and its programming for the 2014-2020 programming period. What do these sessions have in common? It was all the meetings that addressed the drawing of European funds from the European Cohesion Fund. It is probably not too important to highlight the importance of effective use of these funds, especially if this importance is highlighted in the light of the financial impact, despite the tight conditions of State funding for infrastructure and other projects and in the light of the environmental aspect, since today we are going to talk about projects that concern drinking water and the cleaning of dirty water. European funds are a key instrument for promoting competitiveness in Slovenia, as well as the most important funding during the financial crisis. UMAR in the Economic Mirror for March 2014 notes that construction activity has increased significantly. If we compare January 2014 to January 2013, this increase is as high as 42.9%. The largest share of the increase in construction activity is attributed to the construction of municipal infrastructure, co-financed by European funds. And if I return to making effective use of European funds, the Republic of Slovenia shall have available thousands of €562 million of European funds in the operational programme 2007-2013 for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure or the shorter OP ROPI. It is part of the Cohesion Fund and part of the European Regional Development Fund. The Cohesion Fund provides €596 million in spending rights under OP ROPI for a billion of €511 million, while the contracts signed are now without these 11 projects for a billion €478 000 200 million 124. The value of signed contracts is already well above the 2012 spending rights for EUR 66.6 million. The signature still has €31 million in contracts, and public contracts totalling €56 million of European work are still under way. In the event of successful implementation, more commitments will be made for € 153 million, such as total spending rights under the OP ROPI. We are not talking here about the 11 projects that we discussed at the previous sessions and which we are going to talk about today. In the framework of OP ROPI, there were since 1. 1. 2007 to 31. 3. 2014 allocations of 115.10% of spending rights or almost billions of EUR 800 million, signed contracts of 89.29% of spending rights or almost billions of EUR 400 million, paid out of the budget for 44.07% of spending rights or almost EUR 700 million and reimbursements by the European Commission for 40.95% of spending rights or almost EUR 640 million. Therefore, the figures are not the best, especially in the work that talks about reimbursement by the European Commission and the budget. This was also found by the Government of Janez Janša and on 11 October 2012 by a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia approved additional funds for the OP ROPI of EUR 307,3 million, of which EUR 182 million for environmental projects. In fact, this means that the Ministry of Finance has granted additional rights. These additional rights of €182 million represent a buffer to ensure, instead of ensuring a drawdown dynamic for projects that are not implemented, the achievement of the target, and this is to spend all the money available to us in the financial perspective 2007-2013. What's the original problem now? Why is it necessary, in addition to the spending rights that we have provided and the European budget, to guarantee additional spending rights? Additional rights, I stress, which we guarantee from the integrated budget. The original sin, unfortunately, lies in the decisions of 2007 and partly in 2008. The original sin lies in decisions that cannot be taken and amended in any way without the beneficiary, and we know that, you know, everyone knows, and so do the proposing of this extraordinary meeting. Of course, municipalities and beneficiaries are also aware of this by decisions that are, once again, harmful. I will not go into who is to blame, who has signed such a decision, such a contract that does not allow the interruption or withdrawal in the event of the failure to implement the agreed project. It doesn't really matter. What is important today and what is of interest to us is, in what way or how to solve the situation. One path has already been made. Additional spending rights were ensured. However, we all know today that it is not possible, at least not without an increase in the budget deficit, to guarantee new spending rights from an integrated budget, where there is no surplus of money. We have also listened to a lot of readings because of the shortage, on the part of today’s proponents of this extraordinary meeting. The responsible government cannot and must not increase the deficit. What's the other way? Is there any other way? On 28 April 2014, on the Committee on the Economy, we listened to a representative of the municipalities of Mr Smrdelj, who stated that the municipalities are aware that it is not possible to issue decisions on co-financing of environmental projects from the new financial perspective 2014-2020, that is, decisions for those projects that are ready and can be implemented immediately. This is for those projects for which the government issued an invitation to municipalities in 2013 to prepare or complete preparations for cohesion or environment projects, 11 projects for which bank guarantees have already been issued and for which the municipalities have already spent approximately EUR 7 million for preparation. On 28 April 2014, this was understood and a clear proposal was made for a solution to the problem. Mr Sturdelj wanted to hear the assurance that the State, the Government of 11 projects, would place these 11 projects in a new financial perspective as soon as the legal basis for this would be created or the payments would be made from an old financial perspective if the spending rights were released. There were no requests for decisions, as it was clear that there was no legal basis for decisions. There is no legal basis for legal decisions and Mr Stinky has understood and adopted this in his debate. The requirement has been ensured from the Government, a guarantee that projects that municipalities can start to implement will also be paid. But that was April 28, 2014. What about today? We're ahead of the election today. Today, the demands of some involved in the debate are changing, and most surprisingly, the requirements change from debate to debate. The funds for 11 environmental projects already prepared will, for the most part, be drawn from the following financial perspective and the municipalities can continue the projects. This is a message from the Government's conclusions adopted after the meeting with the mayors and after an intensive search for a solution to the situation. If the projects are divided into stages, the first phase in the event of the release of funds will be able to draw from the old financial perspective, or from the new financial perspective 2014-2020, when operational programmes from the new financial perspective 2014-2020 are approved by the European Commission. Let us say that, at this moment, the operational programmes are aligned with the European Commission, which gives the government the opportunity to informally comply with the new requirements. In the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we believe that the Government has satisfactorily solved the issue of 11 environmental projects that are ready to begin implementation and which are essential for the people of Slovenia. The Government sought the best and only legal option, which it confirmed in its conclusions by letter of 10 June 2014. In the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we are aware that the Government does not have the leverage to take the project away from the investor or begin to carry it out phased out. This is exclusively the responsibility of investors, i.e. municipalities. The Government or the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy can only advise and offer maximum professional assistance and the municipalities must decide on their own. We welcome the solution adopted by the Government on 10 June 2014 by the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u16	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, respected colleagues! From the European financial perspective 2007-2013, the Republic of Slovenia is entitled to cohesion policy funds from structural funds up to €2.7 billion and from the cohesion fund €1.4 billion, totalling €4.1 billion, which Slovenia can spend by the end of 2015 at the latest. For the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure, Slovenia has received around €540 million for the environment. Already in the first phase, EUR 584 million was allocated. We note that all drawing rights are distributed by project. In order to ensure that all EU funds are drawn from the Funds, more rights have been allocated than the amounts provided by the EU Funds. If all the projects are completed, this will also be a burden of the budget, which, of course, is nothing wrong. It is right to finance municipal infrastructure, including through an integrated budget. We have spoken on this subject several times in the National Assembly at individual committees and plenary sessions and have also been informed of the proposaler's assessment that some projects are unlikely to be completed and will remain unexploited. Similar fear comes from the last government report on this subject. At the meeting, the National Assembly also considered a proposal for a decision imposing on the Government to examine projects that show the risk of not completing them properly, leaving European funds unused. I'm guessing the government has done this part. Representatives of the MKO and SVRK conducted interviews with municipalities carrying so-called risk projects. Project promoters shall ensure that projects are completed within the required time limit, so that the drawdown of funds is not jeopardised. We are also told about this by the signed records by the mayors. In short, all drawing rights from the European financial perspective 2007-2013 are distributed. For risky projects, mayors ensure that they are executed. Nevertheless, the proposer proposes to grant new drawing rights or to be financed from an integrated budget. At the same time, they do not indicate which existing projects should be discontinued and the funds transferred to other projects, such as those 11 projects, or from which integral budget items should be taken into account for new projects. The proposer shall propose the implementation of projects without completion of the financial structure. On the other hand, the Government has decided that the municipalities should start projects with their own resources. This is not an ideal solution, but it is certainly one of the possible solutions. I'm not gonna judge whether she's right or wrong. It's up to every mayor to decide. However, it has the government's commitment that, when possible, it will also receive appropriate decisions. Due to already reserved resources and the already adopted budget, this is not possible at the moment. The government proposes to launch projects without completion of the financial structure. In short, both the proposer of this meeting are called SDS and the Government are proposing to launch projects without completion of the financial structure. It reminds me of a remarkable project, the Stožice project. The result of the project with an unfinished financial structure is indeed a new hall and stadium and an additional concrete monument, from which only the concrete supplier was of obvious benefit. And, of course, a 100-million-dollar hole transferred from banks to a bad bank. A hole that has fallen on the burden of all taxpayers due to projects with incomplete financial structures. I fear that, with such a continuation, whether in one scenario or another, a poor region should be established. A region to which we will transfer the bad municipalities that can be bankrupted by projects without a complete financial structure. Respectable proponents! We all agree that the supply of clean drinking water and the remaining municipal infrastructure is very important, but adequate financial resources must be provided. We could have suggested that when we discussed the budget, you didn't do that. So your current maneuvers mean nothing but pre-election sharing of promises. Without the provision of resources, either from the repeal of certain approved projects or from other budget lines, your proposal is for a higher budget deficit and a new debt. At the same time, when you propose to adopt an implementing law on the Golden Fiscal Rule and issue debt. So there's no mistake, I support both of you. But at the same time, we must also be aware that you cannot turn a cow into steaks at the same time and continue to molest it. Get in the same step meat and milk from the same cow, from the same budget. Once again, we support the implementation of 11 environmental projects in the National Gazette and will continue to support all proposals to be governmental or opposition, which will make sense, not just empty pre-election promises.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives, good-bye! The proposals of the Committee's decisions adopted were perfectly logical and such conclusions would, of course, make sense. The decisions taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with limited possibilities, are taken by a limited Government, you might say. And with such limited conclusions of the limited government, Slovenian mayors and Slovenian municipalities cannot really help themselves with the projects. I simply do not understand those who speak here today for a speaker that it is possible to sign in accordance with the decisions adopted by the Government when, in the fourth decision, he refers to the signing of contracts with the contractors referred to in the second and third points, if it has taken a decision itself, namely that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assesses that it is possible to start. Listen, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not one voluntary tourist or sports society that would assess that something is possible. The voluntary sports company estimates that it is possible to play with the national team next year. They can assess this, but the government cannot assess the government, at least they should consider it to rule to decide. But it's not a limited option at all, but it's a limited government, not now, but it seems to me that it's been happening for some time now, actually since 2009. In the third decision, the Government estimates that it will be possible to carry out four environmental projects. And in this case, it's exactly the same. It is clear to every Slovenian mayor of the smallest Slovenian municipality that he can sign the contract if the financial structure is completed. This, of course, is not clear to Zoran Jankovic, it was not clear in Ljubljana and this was not necessary and, of course, nothing has happened and will not happen. That's obviously not clear to the government. But when I thought about why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and when we talked about it in the People's Party, was going this way, we could actually estimate that it wanted to bring the mayors into not only irresponsible but even an unfair solution. Such a legal solution, as presented here today by the Minister, without decisions, is not a solution. It's a delusion. What's gonna happen? Local elections are also held this year. All these mayors, if not elected, will certainly press charges against the next mayors. Justifiably. Because they're going to do something because it's illegal, in a way that the government has seduced them. As a result, businesses will be bankrupt, at the end of European money will not be provided, there will be no reallocation in the new financial perspective – I think there will be a lot of money left on transport infrastructure that they can transport to the environment – and that is not and will result in – what? The municipalities went bankrupt or, in other words, a plan to abolish smaller congregations with such projects could begin. It is clear from this that this is illegal to issue a decision on something that is not covered by the financial perspective. Today we are talking, some have said it even five times or I don't know how many times already about this problem. Since 2009, the Slovenian People's Party has been reminded of the use of European funds. 4.2 billion in 3 operational programmes – unfortunately, the funds will remain in Brussels. Some of this will remain in Brussels because there has always been a problem with the replacement of the government, who will be the governing body. Let us just remember the turmoil during Pahor's government between the two ministries, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of European Affairs, where even the then State Secretary, also today, Mrs State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, where, of course, it is important to decide and use European funds, there was such a dispute following its intervention in Brussels that Minister Gjerkesh wrote to both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and I think that Minister Gaspari. I hope someone is also aware of their responsibilities today. What will be the consequences for this, but now they will be transferred to the mayors of Slovenian municipalities. It is unacceptable for Slovenian municipalities to even return funds to the Brussels cash register due to such errors that have taken place and to the prestigious fighting within the ministries concerning the management body. I am pleased that today Minister Židan mentioned the economic growth and the foundations laid by the Ministry of Agriculture at the arrival of Mr Bogovic in 2012. Every week a ministerial team sat together and discussed the issue of using European funds. We have economic growth from two headlines, this is from the use, increased use of European funds, of course, everything had to be prepared earlier if you wanted to do so in 2013 and, of course, because of exporters. The parishioners, of course, do not have a printery so that they can print money and provide funds for what the government promises them. They cannot and such conclusions are, of course, completely unacceptable and completely irresponsible for my concepts. Indeed, the Government will still call on it to assess that certain things can be done, but of course its assessment was wrong. Since we have been alerting the Slovenian People's Party not for the third time and we have not discussed 3 hours, but at least 30 times, we have been discussing the use of European funds, we can also say in the time of the Pahor government, when we owe about 2 billion euros a year, unfortunately, the funds have not been directed towards the co-financing share of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of projects. That's the problem. They were aimed at public consumption and the apparent preservation of jobs. Of course, it turned out to be, I'm sorry what came out of it. There is no reason, therefore, for the Government not to accept and adhere to certain promises made in 2004 to Europe, we have given that in the field of drinking water and water treatment we will remove everything necessary in this area by 2017. Even in the new financial perspective, unfortunately, as has already been said, 2014 is against the end, because of course we have a limited government, because we have national elections and so on, so it is politically against the end, we have no partnership agreement and no operational programmes. More. This same government did not respect the conclusions of the National Assembly, which were adopted here, that it should prepare operational programmes in accordance with the applicable legislation. We have written in our current law that we have two cohesion regions, and this is not done. She didn't send it to Brussels either, and that's irresponsible. As a result, we will not take advantage of the funds of the new financial perspective or, of course, by accelerating this, certain projects could be significantly different. The only objective and irresponsibility of this government is therefore to defend, as it did in Brussels, and therefore the party agreement has also been rejected, literally torn apart by some mega projects in the centre. That's what the government set up. This does not lead to regional development, it does not lead to the fulfilment of the promises made to Brussels regarding environmental issues. If anything, this would be the start of an economy or construction, of course, some jobs, not by any chance any of the 60,000 or anything else. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian People's Party, we fully support the proposals of municipalities, mayors, who, of course, have made it clear that something has to be done with regard to projects that are prepared but do not have decisions issued by the Government, and that by binding the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it was finally possible to come to Parliament with some law. Believe that we would find ourselves here regardless of opposition, position, otherwise this is no longer working now, but according to the content, as we found ourselves in several projects in the last month or the last month. Of course, the mayors mentioned that, following the government's commitment to co-financing these projects, it is necessary not to postpone this and remain irresponsible, irresponsible in the municipalities and, of course, because of this, some companies and municipalities, as I have already mentioned, have to be bankrupted. The question of the legality of the signatures of a contract with the chosen contractor without decisions is impossible and is not legal and is contrary to the applicable legislation. The fear expressed by the mayors that individual municipalities will have to perpetuate these proposals for projects that will not be completed within the deadline, i.e. European funds will also have to be reimbursed, of course, either through the conclusions of the Government which will follow them, or, if necessary, by some law. The fact is, at this point, there is sufficient resources within the operational programme. We know that there are likely to be a lot of things left on the road that are going to be arranged for this, who has also made material arrangements — unfortunately, this has not yet happened in this country. However, I hope that this will happen at some point and that those who cause illegal activity will also negotiate with the Government, the Slovenian municipalities, the mayors.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 62nd extraordinary meeting in April this year, the National Assembly has already adopted appropriate recommendations on the topic of halting payments of cohesion funds for the implementation of 11 environmental projects co-financed by European funds. In recent days, however, an agreement has been reached between the President of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment and the mayors that the funds will be drawn from the following financial perspective and that the municipalities can continue the projects. In view of this in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we note that today's item is no longer needed. In the DeSUS Group, we have already pointed out at the previous meeting on this subject that we expect the re-establishment of a government development service and a European cohesion policy, which has all the powers to manage and control European funds, to work as effectively, transparently as possible and in accordance with applicable national and European legislation in this area. At the same time, it is worth noting all the too frequent errors in Slovenia in the area of European funds. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we assess the funding phase as an appropriate solution and hope for the support of the European Commission. Of course, we must have a well-prepared strategy, clearly defined priorities for all areas and a consistent fulfilment of the conditions required by the European Commission. In view of the fact that we may lose a large part of the funds from the current European financial perspective due to the ignorance, irregular and slow conduct of procedures and poorly prepared calls, we expect in our Group that the relevant services and responsible persons will carry out their work more effectively in the future. In fact, the effective use of European funds is extremely important for the existence and development of the economy in Slovenia. In a time of financial crisis, which the Slovenian economy still feels strongly, the funds under this heading are one of the most important means of investment. The government has ensured that all environmental projects have been reviewed and analysed, both on the basis of regular spending rights and additional spending rights, and has instructed the competent ministry, in cooperation with the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy, to prioritise these projects in funding under the 2014-2020 financial framework. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that all projects that are essential from an environmental point of view will continue and be successfully completed. This will also result in the timely and successful completion of the CEROS project from Zasavje, where I come from, and the environmental permit will be obtained for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretaries of state with co-workers, all welcome on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats! We have talked a lot about cohesion policy and environmental projects, on the Committees of the National Assembly, in plenary sessions, in plenary meetings of the National Assembly, in some consultations and so on. We have talked a lot, yes, we have done a lot, but apparently too little, that in all of us is afraid that we will not draw on all the resources available to the Republic of Slovenia for environmental and other projects. Let me remind you that this year the European Union Affairs Committee has adopted a decision to quarterly monitor the use of cohesion funds. The European Union Affairs Committee is therefore responsible for the in-depth monitoring of drawing and implementation of projects. Let me recall some of the conclusions adopted by this Committee on 15 October last year regarding the two cohesion regions, with regard to the fact that the Government Committee proposes to prepare two operational programmes, because we have two cohesion regions, one for the cohesion region of Eastern Slovenia and one for the cohesion region of Western Slovenia, and so on that I will not read all these decisions, which are published publicly, so the conclusions adopted at the meeting on 15 October 2013. Of course, there is a majority of the coalition in this committee as well, but we generally accept the conclusions without a vote against it; I think it is a good signal. And we've done quite a few things successfully. I am referring to the Committee's conclusions, when we committed the Government to do something, not by law, as it was repeatedly said on the committee yesterday, that it was necessary for a law to be passed only then — no, the Government must shake at the smallest decision of the least committee of the National Assembly if there is parliamentary democracy in this country; if there is any other way, then I will deny this claim. Let me remind you, for example, of good practice or good practice. On 25 March 2014, the European Union Affairs Committee unanimously adopted conclusions, from which I will read only the first: "The European Union Affairs Committee calls on the Government to provide, without delay, the missing funds of the Cohesion Fund and national participation in the budget lines of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment for the implementation of projects in the field of environmental protection, water, within the framework of the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure already in 2014. What led up to this decision or, rather, the implementation of this Decision: The following day the Government implemented this Decision at a written meeting and the stopped water supply project in the Hostel was able to move forward. I am grateful for this to all members of the European Union Affairs Committee. Following the implementation of this Decision by the Government, Minister Dejan Židan went to the field and signed the co-financing contracts, which is normal, which is right. And we want to continue this in some way, so a two-day debate on the Committee on the Economy on the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Furthermore, on 30 May, the European Union Affairs Committee considered, firstly, the European Cohesion Policy drawing report 2007-2013 for the period January-March 2014 and adopted 9 important decisions which require the Government to respond within eight days to the National Assembly or to the Committee on European Union Affairs and also to ensure that 11 projects, as we say, are ready to implement, are ready to allow the Government to begin implementation. In particular, the Government has not responded to our conclusions within eight days, but as chairman of the Committee, I understand that the opinion on the proposal for recommendations on the implementation of environmental projects co-financed by the Cohesion Fund for the financial perspective 2007-2013 prepared by the Government for the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on the Economy, that this opinion is also intended for the Committee and that I understand it in some way as a response to the 9 decisions of the Committee on European Union Affairs and in this regard I do not want to complicate. Ladies and gentlemen, European cohesion policy funds are a key instrument in Slovenia to promote competitiveness and development in general, and their importance has increased at the beginning of the crisis. This area is an absolute priority for the Government, which strives to make activities even more effective. With these introductory words, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia presented its report on the drawing-up of the European Cohesion Policy 2007-2013 for the period January to March 2014, which the Committee on European Union Affairs considered, as it said, on 30 May. It's all good and good. Is this really our country's absolute priority, ladies and gentlemen? Can we talk about the care of the good host in the government's response and its slow steps in drawing on European funds? Are her indicators pointing in the right direction? And if what? In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the procedures that our country is leading in the area of cohesion drawbacks indicate the irresponsible conduct of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is unable to obtain the European funds to which they would be entitled if they had done their task well. Let's see, specifically. So far, only a third of the available money from the Cohesion Fund has been drawn from the financial perspective 2007-2013. Compared to this, the slow or passive role of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment was the most successful in 2012 due to the already unenviable economic situation in the country and shows an irresponsible attitude towards the financing of infrastructure projects that are still of high priority for citizens of the masses of Slovenian municipalities. While the Government sets out in its report on the drawing-up of the European Cohesion Policy 2007-2013 for the period January-March 2014 the objective of making full use of the funds from the Operational Programme for the Development of Environment and Transport Infrastructure 2007-2013 by the end of 2015. In the New Slovenia Group, we have doubts that such a goal will be possible. However, only €688 million has been realized in the current financial perspective. While €874 million is expected to be realized in the remaining year and a half, this is €41 million per month and 60% of the dynamics has been paid out of the budget. There are also difficulties in drawing on European funds and, in particular, the under-reserved resources in the country's budget, mainly in the area of large infrastructure projects for which the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment is the intermediate body. Colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about the multi-annual financial framework 2007-2013, 2014-2020 and also several times about the financial perspective. Several times the word financial, financial, is used in these words, but see why I told the Committee on the Economy yesterday and the previous day that the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were adopted at the 134th letter meeting, 10. 6th this year, in mockery of cohesion projects. Because the government sends 12 people to the National Assembly who are all respected here, sitting behind me, and those who are not, are worthy of respect, and none are from the Ministry of Finance. Someone is making a fool of us, not from Members of New Slovenia, but from two million citizens. Water supply projects and cohesion projects, however, are built with money. And now, of course, the secretary of state and co-workers will listen to the criticism for eight hours and so on, but Minister Cuffer may be somewhere in the air-conditioned space, I don't know, maybe he's at ECOFIN, if ECOFIN is going on, fighting for Slovenia. I hope he doesn't owe us. I hope that he has pulled the manual brake, that the reduced rate of debt from one million euros per hour to at least 900 000 euros per hour. Look, this is outrageous. And I can't get past the fact that I'm publicizing the fact that there's no one on this subject, for this very important topic from the Ministry of Finance. I believe, as on the Committee on European Union Affairs with the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, that what should be done is that, if it were here or yesterday on the Committee on the Economy, in order to deal with some devil and with some budgetary exercises, it would be possible to make transfers if the Government could make and seize funds to universities, then, I do not want to say that someone should be taken, taken into force, but to see where each euro can be most wisely charged. And this is the work of the Ministry of Finance. That's why it's my loss, and it's going to be pointed at the Ministry of Finance today. Perhaps there is something else about the Government's conclusions sent on the basis of the conclusions of the EU Affairs Committee, both in paragraph 1 and for the urgent meeting of the Committee on the Economy. The Government's conclusions adopted at its 134th letter meeting on 10 June for 11 projects, which we have been talking about for seven months, bring nothing and do nothing. Therefore, Alenka Bratušek’s tweet is just a pirage and deception and making a madman out of people, from municipalities, mayors, citizens and citizens. I have to make this very clear here, and I'm not ready to defend it for how long. Why don't these conclusions bring anything? Because there is no time-table, no financial obligations and no resources in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, or better said, there is no funds in the right budget lines. As has already been said, on the EU Affairs Committee, we once worked well with the Government on the Hostel's water supply project, and we were counting on the Government to continue to work in this way on cohesion projects with the National Assembly. But it's just not like that. If we read, colleagues and colleagues, the fourth decision given by the Government in this document, the fourth decision states: "In order to maintain the public contracts executed and related bank guarantees and building permits, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia invites beneficiaries to start projects under point 2 and point 3" is a list of these 11 projects, "and they are financed from their own [[municipal]] resources." Yeah, if they're okay, but I do, and I know they don't. That's why this session is today. I regret that we have not put together enough positive energy on the Committee on the Economy to reach at least a conclusion to bind the Government and to give some optimism, and in particular a green light for these 11 major cohesion, environmental projects, when it comes mainly to the supply of drinking water, which is unfortunately being done in the Republic of Slovenia, we must work at the beginning of the third millennium, because this issue has not yet been resolved. On the other hand, we have proposals to change the constitution, where it should say that drinking water is everyone's right, we don't have to write it into the constitution, everyone somehow understands it by default, as they say, but when we have to plant shovels, when we have to do something concrete, as we say, maybe some reallocation in the budget, and then simply doesn't, and the Ministry of Finance is ignoring, clearly ignoring any kind of conversation that might lead to some solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First, he has the word on behalf of the Magi proposalr. Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Branko Ficko, mag. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I have to respond to some of the claims made on behalf of the groups of Members. In fact, they go in a well-known political spirit, if there is no problem, the proponents are politicising, you want to encourage the public and you are addressing this public before the upcoming elections and so on. Respected, if something important had happened on these 11 environmental projects since the last meeting, which was held in April, there would have been no such meeting and there would have been no such opportunity, and if that government were able to stay together, there would have been no elections in a good month. In short, the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party would like to warn her that by showing or being ambitious after solving some of the real problems, she simply wants to politicise and collect points. And why did you not avoid this discussion and solve this problem? And it is also very interesting that those who are unable to tackle this problem operationally show and ask us Members here to solve this problem without having a government and a parliament. Parliament has given the Government the visa of these 11 environmental projects already some very clear signals, very clear signals. And practically none of this happened. Nothing. It's even worse, I think it's also a step back or that there's been a misdirection of mayors who, of course, want to implement these projects. In fact, one such decision by the Government, which occurred two days ago, we recognize these projects as priority projects and we will prioritise them, and you start with them, within your financial capabilities. This is said to be – and what then – a municipality that, for example, has €5 million in its work, provides its own resources of some 100,000 euros, will do a few hundred thousand, I don't know what, will dig up the ditch and then wait a year, whether this project will continue, without serious commitments, just a message that this project will be a priority. This is a kind of crazy thing to say to people in these congregations. Or the government's message is different – fund this whole project if you want it. It's both weak, it's both incorrect! And now there's something else, the minister here said that these are the projects run by the congregations. Technically, these are projects, national-local projects, because the municipalities have always led them in close cooperation, in weekly, daily meetings with the ministries, to bring them to this stage. These are, in fact, somehow coordinated projects for which it has always been more than clear that they will receive co-financing from European funds, which are briefly co-financed by the State and that the municipality's own share here is 15%. That was more than clear. Now the state is kind of withdrawing from the minister's words or, I'd say, at least give a few hands away from it and let it go, you take it on. What am I trying to say? I would like to say that whatever you have done on the basis of the conclusions you have adopted in an operational manner in the Government has not, in fact, led to any serious results in this area. The result is that this project is done and nothing else is done. So the ambition of us, the proponents, is – and this will be the best way to silence us – if you say so, we will do so in concrete terms on this project. Today, however, we have a message that, from the financial perspective of 2007-2013, which has already expired, money cannot be provided, because all the projects for which money has already been allocated in this financial perspective will certainly be implemented and more because it is overcommitment and that the funds from the new financial perspective, that is to say the ones we live for, cannot be allocated for these projects because the relevant documents are not accepted. But there's no third source. Then why have you taken these congregations through all these procedures all these years, and why have you led them by the nose? Why? The Minister of the Jews said earlier that he had done everything in his power to make this happen. He said that he was the savior of cohesion, so it was to be understood. And then, of course, he was denied by many here. Your Honor, I think you'll do something if you want to do something, of course, in only two ways. Just for two. Tell people the truth, tell the truth that there is no money to finance these projects, or provide it. And then another misleading claim by one of the parliamentary groups is where to take the money or thereby increase the deficit and additional debt. Yes, yes, under your philosophy there is really only this possibility, but this option will come true sooner or later in the bankruptcy of the country if you do not change anything or if you do not miss out on this particular, closed look for once. Since 2009, when the government of Pahor's Social Democracy has taken over, this country has to date spent approximately a billion more than current revenues. It is said that what this country spends on the functioning of all state apparatus with all transfer policy to all cash registers and to all beneficiaries is said to be what we spend turning around to live in this country, spending one billion more than we do with all taxes and all the non-tax revenue, excise duties and so on. This thing is unstable. If you do nothing on the expenditure side of the budget, this country will not survive. No way. And that's what you're up against, and you're writing some reform programs, from which Secretary of State Mavko can't explain to me what measures we're supposed to take. You say you will take more money from the municipalities, in the reform program, read that you will lower the average or make it on the basis of standardised income. I'm telling you how this is related to this topic that we're talking about today, because I can see that I'm getting you a little nervous. Because if you reduce this country's running expenditure a little bit, you'll have the money for the investments that are needed. This is the source, not the deficit, not the debt, but the running expenditure, the current expenditure of this country needs to be reduced. We have a liberalised country to the extent that we need for one parking lot on one basis 47 consents and permits to build a parking lot. And this takes 10 years to bury the shovels from the O.N. to all consents, and then that parking lot is built in 3 months. And everyone grazes on these state mangers for ever. And you're saying, of course, that you don't have the money for the most urgent investments in water supply. Here's the money. I'll tell you where the money is. To the MKO specifically. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has not been able to charge concessions to a wide range of water users, which it uses either for bathing sites or for a few other things until now. These are the people who have submitted the application because they are using the water source to pay the concession, and the state can't grant them the concession, let alone charge the concession fees. And it's a few million euros, for sure, every year. Done. No one can pick it up, and that money actually lies. More. The Ministry has sent inspections to close these water resources, although these water resources provide activity, economic activity and, of course, jobs. Thank God we have also resolved this problem through the new Water Act, due to non-operationality. So what I'm saying is that money is practically also lying on the ground with the Government, and all you have to do is pick it up and spend it on these investments. And you're moaning and crying so you can't do that. That's what you can do. You're the only one who doesn't know. Let's face it! You don't even know how to coexist together, let alone know what to do operationally. That's the problem we have. And we don't have this problem here in SDS. This is a problem for Slovenian citizens, at least half a million, who are tied to these water pipelines that will not be built now. And most of all, I would say, in fact, some ambition after satisfying some external image, some optics without any content, are the conclusions of the government. czesh, we solved the problem. Really? I would like to know which of these key projects will start building on these government conclusions. Not one, perhaps one, will just continue, because it is already going on, and will continue to do so to a limited extent, as much as the municipal money for it will. I believe, Your Honor, that we are really here full of guidance, why something cannot be done, why these projects cannot be allowed to go forward. But very little has been said about the proposals on how to do this, and what measures should be taken to ensure that these environmental projects are implemented. Your Honor, I've sat in many different chairs, on this side and these benches, and I know you have to look for things to be done. And we've done a lot of things. Yes, dear gentlemen in the back row and ma'am, yes, we did. During the previous government, for example, we adopted five reform laws, five reform laws. Five reform laws. Tell me one of you. Inoperable totally, but you know. And you've pretty much collapsed and crashed yourself, and now we're all the others guilty, and finally I don't know who else is going to be guilty that these 11 environmental projects can't be implemented. Your Honor, instead of looking for reasons why this cannot be done, it would be right for the government to be ordered to seek solutions. Of course, you gladly walked, refused, and today we have no conclusion to accept because you rejected them all yesterday. Everything. Maybe even our conclusions aren't the best. Maybe. Perhaps yours would be better, but you have not proposed or proposed more lactating conclusions, some such as those of the Government, which it adopted two days ago. I wonder, rhetorically, but I don't have to answer that. Would these decisions of the government have taken place two days ago if there had not been an extraordinary meeting today? A hundred percent wouldn't come. It wouldn't even be like that. And you're saying that all these proposals made by the motioners are barren, non-contributory and political. If anything, we have squeezed at least something from the government, though much too small or too small, that nothing can be done about it, but at least some vision has been shown by the government. And one thing is, we're not even ready for the current financial perspective. We have no document, no partnership agreement, no operational programmes, nothing. I have information that some countries have already adopted partnership agreements, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Poland. You're saying we've done everything we can. That's not true! Documents, at least some, could already be adopted and we could already work on them. No, but we wait as if we are ourselves enough, as if we are ourselves the best and as if we do not need European money. Once again, the aim of the applicants was just this and only one thing to bring these 11 water programmes across the country, covering 34 municipalities and over half a million people, half a million citizens and citizens, is to say that these projects are going to be put into operation, to give results when they are completed. During the construction phase, they will produce the results of enhanced economic activity when they are built and will produce results of significantly healthier drinking water supply for so many people as I said before. Therefore, I would be very pleased that you would also try to be in a position which, of course, hurts you, at least once show a little constructive posture and take a step towards what really happens is the intensity of this point and these conclusions. Not that you attach to those who say that there is never anything to be done, and you list one hundred and one problem, but you do not show or at least not point a single escape route out of this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. This is how I'm gonna start. Two days ago, we heard: "The government has found a solution for 11 projects." And the members of the AB Alliance have become widely publicized, "projects will go, money is, there will be new jobs, contractors will have work, everything is in order." This afternoon, however, we had a meeting of the Committee on the Economy, where we received on the table members and also the mayors of those municipalities which were in these projects conclusions from the Government. And on the basis of these conclusions, we ask the mayors whether they will really be able to work on signing contracts. The parishioners said, "No, we won't." Some argued: "Let us only sign the treaty three-partitely, that the country will also sign the treaty and commit itself to making money from the European Union and from the state budget secure. Otherwise, we're not stupid, because we're going to jail. The contractors will sue us for having only 15% of the money needed, what the municipalities have to provide." Then we ask the secretary of state: "Will the money, what the government or minister promised this morning and the Prime Minister of the Government will be leaving, well, and the Minister will be leaving?" "No, there's no money. All rights of consumption are granted, even more so, decisions from the new financial perspective cannot be made until there is a partnership agreement signed and operational programme." The matter was perfectly clear. The next day we see in one of the newspapers the title Salvation or just a pre-election promise. Neither one nor the other, nor the pre-election promise, but directed the mayors to illegally sign contracts with contractors and start implementing works. It's a lie. Nothing else. And now, before 11 projects for 200 million euros in water supply and waste water treatment have fallen, selected operators have been chosen to extend each month the bank guarantee, so they cannot obtain new business because they have reserved bank guarantees for these projects. Thus, their work is harmed and they wait and hope for a solution to be built in some areas that urgently need healthy drinking water and certain cleaning and sewage facilities to do so. But the government isn't looking for any solutions. It stands firm, the money from the old financial perspective is gone and no decisions can be made from a new financial perspective. And we're where we are. And when that happens, we ask. When there's an operational programme, I don't know how long after, we've sent it to Brussels, and now we're waiting for an answer. And no one knows what's gonna happen. Why did this happen? The projects that received the decisions in 2009 were said to have been very slowly prepared with all the right to spend. Minister Bogovic found that if this pace went further that the funds would not be exhausted, the projects would not be carried out, so he accelerated the reserve projects to prepare and obtain the building permit and even select the contractors, the municipalities went seriously into business and prepared it. With the arrival of the new government, Minister of the Jews, look at these projects, which had previously stood so long, they were inflated and all prepared in six months. Of course, because the projects were inflated, some projects that were previously out of the set, if you look at the readiness of the projects in 2010, 2011, were miraculously accelerated, premurski or pomurski water pipeline C, before it was gone, and suddenly it was ready, and the value was even higher, perhaps from 800 km of water pipes came to 1100 km of water pipes. And now the projects are being implemented, all will be implemented by the end of the second year. But who knows how many of these 1,100 kilometers of water pipes are laid down today? Does anyone know how long it takes, and will this be done in a good year? Normally, the government finds it's nine risky projects. The mayors have declared that everything will be built. We will see how many more of these mayors will run for office in October. If it's not done, they'll bring their congregation to bankruptcy. But the government doesn't care, the government has the mayor's statement – the mayor is an investor, a representative of the municipality and answers. The government doesn't answer anything. She's covered in paper. Mr Pavlišič said yesterday, and today he said that we as the proponents do not say where to take from, from which projects the money to start these 11 projects. If we start these 11 projects now – and is expected – the government has also said that a partnership agreement and an operational programme will be signed within six months, then we need money to bridge for this six-year period. The department says we need $40 million for six months, not more. Then it can draw from a new financial perspective. We have projects here. One of these nine risk projects is CERO Zasavje, before we heard a colleague say: "I hope that an environmental permit will be obtained for this project, which must be completed in the autumn of the second year." People of God, every civil servant in the construction company knows that this project will not be completed if it does not have an environmental permit, does not have a construction permit, cannot start and will not be completed to such an extent as this project. If we are to save him, we must go into a phase, or this congregation or those congregations will have to return European money. Pika. CERO Dolenjska, also my municipality, covers – a similar situation – there is no environmental permit, Madam Vice-President, and also your municipality, which you have mayored, is in a critical situation, as far as this project is concerned if it is not built by the end of next year. He doesn't have an environmental permit, but he does have a asset decision. Here with all the responsibility I claim, it will not be built. Where are these millions going to go for this project? I don't know which mayor will sign this contract. The investor is the municipality of Novomec, ask the mayor if he will sign it. CERO Styria region, Slovenska Bistrica, I do not know exactly the situation here, but it is listed here. Let's put together these three projects, how many millions. This is one option for the government to run something and to get the money to start these funds, to launch these 11 projects. These 11 projects are equivalent to 5,000 new jobs. Don't we need them?Oh, my God! Let's wait. Option two. It is possible to allocate funds under the OP ROPI operational programme. From the transport infrastructure programme – when we had a meeting on cohesion some month ago, on the same day the Government adopted a decision on the adoption of a state-owned site plan for such a state project and it is written below that all the conditions for the start of the design documentation and the acquisition of a building permit are now in place to start the project. Now, from practice, we know that it takes a few years before the construction permit for one such project, but the project must be completed by the end of next year. Who's gonna answer here? Who's responsible? Minister of Infrastructure and Space. When he was asked if he was sure that all these projects would be completed by next year, yes, you know what the answer was. "He's not too sure." Does anyone know the situation on these projects? Nobody. Or he's late, but he's got to be quiet. Because the state does not have – the country behaves like the one who sought work and asked God not to find it – because it does not have this 10% or 15% of its own money to spend on these projects, even if 85% of the money remains in Europe. Somebody tell me in the government I'm wrong. We have been asking for a review of the readiness of these projects for years, and we have not received it. Members, members of certain committees to cover this area. Here's the chance, we don't need to break the deadlines for those mayors who can't promise them a fascist that the project can still be implemented in a new financial perspective under the same conditions if they go into phase. We can easily find this money within the operational programme on transport infrastructure. Easy. Former Minister Stepišnik also told the board that he thought 100 million money would be left. On the other hand, we have projects that have been prepared for seven years, with the promise of the State that 85% will be co-financed by all those projects that are urgently needed for certain municipalities. I've told you two cases that I know well. Hydraulic improvements in the water supply of Dolenjska – 50,000 inhabitants, Mayor of Šentjernej said that it was a shame that he did not bring water to the committee meeting itself. I think he'll have another chance, given the situation he's in right now. 150 days out of 365 water must be cooked for 50,000 inhabitants. How many public institutions, kitchens? Water that is not cooked must not even fruit, salad washes, water must be cooked for all. This project is being prepared for seven years. If the electricity runs out, in two hours the water runs out for 50,000 people because it's just that capacity in the water. How should the mayors of these municipalities defend the situation on these projects and now tell people that these projects will not yet go into effect and we do not know when they will. And a few months before the elections, when people know that this financial perspective is running out, it's supposed to be built. Who's responsible here? Suhokrainian water supply — the municipality of Žuzemberk buys water from a neighboring congregation, half of that water is lost to the ground, but people have to pay for it. Pay because it is purchased from a neighboring congregation. 20% of the population does not even have water. A farmer who pays 400 euros a month for water to be brought by firefighters. How can this farmer be competitive in the drylands, how can he still grow? Is the congregation to blame? It's not the congregation's fault. The project was prepared a long time ago. Construction licences have already been extended since the two-year period of validity of the building permit has already expired. But there's no money. How the municipality of Žuzemberk should start building this water supply for, I don't know, 14 million euros, barely going with those most urgent things, barely has that share in the budgets for the next two years. Why not start with this project, find a phase in the implementation of these projects and end this in 2016 or 2017, those projects that we know today that have decisions are reserved money so that they will not be built. Mr. Pavlišič, I've told you in concrete terms where the money is. On three projects. Enough money for these 11 projects to start immediately if a partnership agreement is signed for six months and an operational programme is adopted to enable decisions to be made, the matter will be covered. However, if the Government needs some kind of law to be adopted, I think that the willingness of all of us Members, as positions as opposition members, to adopt this law to give the Government a guarantee that certain activities can be carried out in order to avoid the risk that more than 100 million European funds from cohesion can remain untapped from the 2007-2013 financial perspective. If you do not believe us in the opposition, ask the former Minister for the Economy in which he was in charge, or read the magnetogram from the Committee on the Economy. We're not saying this in three days, it's not just some pre-election activity, but it's taking care of these projects. And we've given the solution. I am sure that in one week in this ministry I will find three variants or three times as much money from these projects, without any prejudice that these projects can start. Only if it's willful. But you're not in love. You're not on the government's side. That the matter was even worse, but the minister was deceiving the mayors, forcing them to commit an illegal act. The mayors said we weren't going to do this, and that's not a solution. You can see it, because in two days in the papers, everything in the media is getting sweaty, but the projects are still standing and will stop. I see a solution, the final solution is just as soon as possible a new government, a new wind and a good broom to sweep through those ministries where you can't see where you're not doing what you're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor. Mr. Pavlišič, would you like to proceed on a procedural basis? No, no, no. You can't have a replica now because you haven't discussed it yet. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, immediately after your discussion, after your discussion, I can give you my word for the replica. But if you have anything procedural to point out, I'll give you my word. Here you go. You don't want to. Good. Thank you very much. There's a mag behind Branko Fick. Katarina Hotchevar, then Mr. Franz Jurša and then Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Good bye to all of you! All candidates, party presidents, potential mandate-holders will, of course, promise economic growth and new jobs in the coming days one 10,000, 15 000, 60 000 and so on. There are, of course, real possibilities. Where? Of course, in addition to the export economy, mainly in investments in line infrastructure, in energy facilities and so on. These 11 and 7 plus 4 environmental cohesion projects, of course, are one of the potentials for construction and its multiplier effects. Of course, investment projects have a positive impact on economic growth, it is also evident from the indicators mainly in the last quarter of 2013, which was also the result of signed projects with a major impact on construction. And when the new Government Cohesion Office rejected the application for approval of 11 environmental projects in April, there was a legitimate revolution. Of course, there are 10 after the mantra during that period. 6. Alenka Bratušek and Dejan Židan made a statement that they had saved Europe's environmental projects by the fact that they had not found solutions, but had in fact made only a promise of extension, that projects would be given priority and co-financing contracts would not be signed. The reason, of course, is that there is no money, that allocations are not possible. Of course, I also personally believe that not all possibilities for reallocation have been checked on the ICC in particular. Even if, of course, it was necessary to partially amend the legislation, as you did in 2011, when you turned the money from the water fund into energy on Sava, the 32 million euro circus. The new proposal would like to increase this amount by another 4 million. Approximately this amount, €32.35 million is also missing from these environmental projects, where the participation of the Slovenian share in the circus amounting to €35 million would be necessary. However, this 34 million euro is also spinning somewhere in the air, given the risks that have been detected today, if, of course, an unfavourable scenario arises from this perspective and, of course, we lose the 34 million euro cohesion funds circus. It is also my opinion that everything can be done, only to try. The easiest thing, of course, is to say bureaucraticly that nothing can be done. At this point, of course, there is nothing left but that individual actors in these coming days, when they promise economic growth and jobs, we are looking for how and how, of course, there will be no investment in line infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u30	I am once again pleased that Mr Ficko has repeated a lie that he repeatedly utters when he speaks of lower-Savish power plants and the new-water fund, and he mentioned in 2011. While Mr Ficko comes from a completely different part of Slovenia, like Posavje, where hydropower plants are being built, because if he were at least a little familiar with this project, he would know that this project has been going on since 2000 and that the basic purpose of the water fund was to provide funds for the infrastructure of hydropower plants on the Lower Sava. That was a fundamental purpose, Mr. Ficko. If you don't know that, I'd ask you to look at the MRIs from back then. And I would remind Mr Fick of another decision by the Government, which was never revoked by the government of Janez Janša, which was not adopted by the government of Borut Pahor, Alenka Bratušek or any government since 2004, but was adopted by the government of Rop in 2002. The 2002 government's decision, which I can bring to you to read and stop deceiving people once again, says that the water fund funds are prioritized for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava. This decision is from that year. Subsequently, a law was passed in 2004 setting out the resources for financing water infrastructure at the Lower Sava from the Water Fund. I would like to explain to Mr Fick that the important part of financing the infrastructure is the flood protection of Posavje, that the municipality of Sevnica, especially the town of Sevnica, as well as Boštanj and so on, has survived the catastrophic floods several years ago precisely because the accumulation at Blanca hydroelectric power plant has already been built, and thus also flood protection. Please stop deceiving people that funds from the Water Fund for the financing of infrastructure on the Lower Sava are being spent unintentionally, in violation of laws and regulations and so on. However, let me tell you something else: unfortunately, no government has so far, except perhaps in the last few years after indeed water catches, has been able to prepare one serious national spatial plan for flood protection, so that the resources of the Water Fund can be earmarked for a serious flood protection project in the country, except for flood protection of Posavia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Ficko, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u32	Because I was mentioned and Mr. Visjak is talking about lies. I am talking about the 2004 Water Act, it was amended last year, the Water Act, which of course talks about Water Fund, which is drawn from all concessions, water refunds, from the territory of the whole of Slovenia. The basic purpose of the Water Fund, what that law also says, is that the Water Fund is used for water infrastructure, for flood areas and so on, of course in the whole territory of Slovenia not only in Posavje or Brežica. Of course, the Court of Auditors, which is talking about non-useful money, is said to be this Water Fund and, of course, this money should go to all areas and territories of Slovenia, where water problems are, of course, against floods and so on. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what the law says. Of course, you are talking about individual decisions of the Government, which I do not oppose, but the law is the law and you then, of course, adopted another law in 2011, with other interests, that this money is a hydroelectric Brežice and you are money, two-thirds of the money with this law, which has been passed, is true, you redirected through the public infrastructure company Infra, where you, of course, spent 115 million for energy, for the rest of the infrastructure, everything about this location, but of course, it already circulates 135 million. I'm talking about it, and of course I'm saying it's not a lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u34	Yes, sir, if you're talking about it, then you've expressed yourself very strangely before you saw me not in the hall. Now you're getting a little softer. You've been saying that with the 2011 law, money is being wasted unintentionally from the Water Fund. The 2011 law actually speaks and introduces a new system source for financing infrastructure on the Lower Sava, the Climate Change Fund. Applicants, I was the first to sign that law, we were aware that the Water Fund was exposed to various problems, water problems in the country, and we were aware that this could no longer be the only source of funding. We were aware of this and that is why this law was created in 2011. However, to say that the Water Fund is not the right source or that it was even controversial or even illegal to finance the infrastructure on the bottom of the Sava does not, to say the least, apply. Because I told you that by 2011, the law had foreseen this source. Worse still, in 2002 the Government decided to give priority to this. And Mr. Ficko, who else is filling up the water fund? Who's the biggest contributor to the water fund? Hydroelectric power plants in the Republic of Slovenia. Hydropower plants contribute to the Water Fund through concession fees and through water refunds. And what is important in knowing that each new hydropower plant is an additional, new source of water fund charging. We boil about whether to buy seed potatoes, to have enough potatoes in a year, or to invest in something that gives money later. And before 2012, Mr. Ficko, with respect, always remained in the Water Fund. It was always not spent because there were no projects. Then this money was transferred, and sometimes lost in the integrated budget. If there were no projects on the Lower Sava, the money wouldn't have been spent at all. It wasn't until recently because there were no projects. I would ask you to really make sure that you look at some document, some question from the past. I don't even know how you've linked the water fund to this topic we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry and to all present! I thought that even though I had only been in politics for three years, that no other thing could surprise me anymore and that I had already come to know all the flowers and the beauty of political life and that it would not be too much damage if I withdrew, but this last month before the elections seemed to enrich me for some new knowledge. Look, I think that the proponents of this extraordinary session are, of course, exaggerating and exploiting this topic during the pre-election period. But I have to admit, the government's own conclusions are more in the style of whether or not you know, I'll be loyal to your grave. Then we know how these things usually end. The meeting's proponents raise three major environmental investments totalling €51 million. These 11 projects, which are in a phase that could start construction, are estimated at 236 million. And of course I'm wondering now how we're going to park 236 cars in a garage house where there's room for 51 cars. The money for environmental infrastructure in this area is 548 million and signed contracts – this has already been said several times, but obviously once again – is for 450 million. And by 2015, of course, if this is still accompanied by a decision of the financial contract, if, of course, they are carried out within the right time frame. But if all the mayors, if they say on all the projects that things are going to be done to the end, I just understand those who cover this area, that they can't otherwise be done. I myself spoke at the last meeting and was critical of the Ministry or of those who wrote the decisions in 2007 why they could not be repealed. That is why, from this last session to this day, I have also wondered how these projects, which some have been affected by, really stand in practice. And now, Mr. Vizjak just claims that everything counts on the bottom of the Sava. But I will argue that the Regional Waste Management Centre in Zasav will be fully implemented. My cousins or congregations in the Zasavje region claim that the matter will be completed. Of course, there are other projects here. And so I'm going to say that this speech and the opportunity to speak, I'm going to take advantage of the fact that I'm calling on the competent ministry to help them do so, of course. Because what is the problem of CERO Zasavlja. The biggest problem is the regulation on the treatment of biodegradable waste and the use of compost or digesta. This came into force in December 2013 and retroactively intervened in the already issued legal building permit, which was issued to them 3. 9. 2013 for building a compost. And as they tell me, the last meeting at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment in this regard did not give a definitive answer. A new application for the amendment of this authorisation was made by 10. 9. 2013 and received a call for addition by ARSA about 8 months later, 31 months later. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You know, if things in the scratch are really taking so long and there are so many bureaucratic obstacles, yes, then I believe that projects can't be completed to the end. So here at this point, I call on all the competent institutions in the country, ministries, agencies, all those responsible, of course, to speed up their activities, to help these projects in terms of administrative and bureaucratic obstacles and various permits. Of course, when that is not the case, it is necessary to monitor directly and in this previous financial perspective, of course, to place projects that are, I don't know, I will say on the so-called waiting. So I may also be surprised by the opinion of the professional services, which suggests that there are risks in nine or no projects. I just once urge those who are finally paid for it to make sure that there are no such risks, of course, in the part they can take care of. Finally, I would say that, of course, we have only one solution. It is necessary for all of us to step together and the competent institutions to ensure that the funds available in the financial perspective 200-2013 are made available, that they are fully exhausted and that, in the new financial perspective, there will be as few bureaucratic obstacles as possible and that there are as many logistical and direct assistance provided by the competent institutions as possible, so that the projects can be completed and the funds exhausted, which I think is the goal of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u38	Mrs. Hotchevar mentioned me, and I'd like to react. I believe that Mrs Hočevar does not have some negative experience in the work of her political life when she was a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I believe that for the last three years, he has only had this interesting experience when he is in the Civil Gazette. At least I have had a very interesting experience with Mr Virant, and probably a lot of people in this country, so I totally understand it in this way, but I am, in fact, adverting myself because of the fact or indication of Mrs Hočevar, that everything counts in Brežica and elsewhere probably not. That's not true. I'm sorry, I also had to file a law a week ago, and tomorrow we're going to deal with it on the Committee on Agriculture, where we have one phenomenon, because man can't believe it. The President of the Government lays the foundation stone for the Brežice hydroelectric power plant, Minister Židan is not at this opening, the foundation comes only from the Minister of Infrastructure, who supports the project. Then we find out that there is no coincidence that there is no Minister of the Jews, and then we find out over time that there is no closed financial structure for financing the infrastructure part of the same power plant for which the foundation stone was built. And then we find out that there's no money or continuing to obtain project documentation. We're talking about this year's June month. In short, we have another example of building a power plant, a power plant, but we don't have the money to plan, let alone build an accumulation pool. I don't even know if it can work, and I'm sure it can't work without the battery pool. So, Madam Hočevar, we have problems, and that is why I have proposed a law to solve this problem. I will be very happy that you will support it, because I will also support any law that will solve any problem elsewhere in Slovenia. That is why we also propose this meeting today and are discussing this point. We are not discussing this point because of stealing from you or anyone else, but just for one simple reason that these 11 projects are being carried out and carried out or that we cannot execute them because there is no money for it. It's just these two options. However, so far we have heard from the Government always one third option, which is much closer to this last one, it is said that we will do nothing, just do not say this openly and stir with some conclusions that are not operational and speak to some cha-cha-cha and say, we will if we do it when we do it etc. We say that if these projects are okay – and these 11 environmental projects, water supply, I counted them before, water supply, 34 municipalities, over half a million people – these projects are said to be necessary regardless of whether technical problems are the drawing of the current financial perspective, the next financial perspective. Before that, I also listed where the money that could have contributed significantly to this investment was. One thing I said, and one more time I mention it, we don't collect concession fees from water resources. A couple of million euros not to mention how many times the Court of Auditors has warned us about this when there was a speech on the Court of Auditors. And to Mr Fick, who I see is gone, not a single euro has been spent building the water infrastructure of the Brezica hydropower plant when he said it was going to Brezica. Not a single euro has gone to Brežica yet. You're not one euro. The last time I explained this to Mr. Meh, he said that I didn't know what was going on down there. There's nothing to be ashamed of. I'm saying there's no projects yet, and there's no money for the projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u40	Mr Vizjak would like to put me in the package of the Slovenian Democratic Party for a second time, so it is only right to explain. Indeed, during one of the most difficult periods of my life, I was helped by certain people who in 2009 gave me one statement to sign when you had one action to acquire membership. And it's true, I signed that statement back then, but I never paid you a membership fee, and I never attended a meeting or any other meeting of yours. I wasn't even counting on your client. But if this is how your members are acquired, then I believe you have 30,000. I had to explain this when Mr Vizjak repeated this over and over again. As far as projects are concerned, this is the case. I know you're saving them at the bottom of the Sava, but we're also saving them in Zasavje, and I believe that with the appropriate approach of professional services at the agricultural ministry, we will rescue them and bring them to an end in due time. And just as I want to – and I will always give my voice – that all 11 water supply projects and many other projects will be carried out, there is no problem, but I do not want to be basically at the expense of the project in Zasavje speaking or somehow in the public opinion that there are now some imported projects, we should fall out in order for one another to come in. We have as much money as we have, we need to draw it and look at it also forward and for a new financial perspective, in particular that we will start our activities in time already in 2014, not as experience shows back when it was done in 2007-2008 and so on. That is why we are all in a hurry today, or we have problems with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u42	Dear Mrs Katarina Hočevar, I respect you too much and respect you to believe that you just signed a statement and that you didn't know what you were actually signing. I'm actually glad that you were in a good party, in the Slovenian Democratic Party. If I met you earlier, I could still be, I don't know, convinced you to stay. But I do know that Mr Virant has decided on a new project, as he would say, in some way left this environment. He ended up like he did. That's it. I just want to say this, no one wants to say, from us, that we see the problem of a few projects being imported and so on. We only point to one real possibility that money will not be spent on some projects because of objective circumstances and that it can be allocated to these projects. Certain projects can be good, but they cannot be implemented. We just want to say that it is possible to allocate a certain amount of resources in this financial perspective, at least according to our behaviour, this is possible. And of course, no one in the government is holding us to this, which doesn't mean that it doesn't. Unfortunately, it'll show who's right, too late. When next year is over, when there is nothing more to be done, it will be obvious who was right, but then we will be able to drive the Brussels money back to Brussels.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor, followed by Mr Jožef Horvat, Mrs Sonja Ramšak and then Mrs Aleksandra Osterman. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u44	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to all colleagues, including representatives of the Ministry! I'm sure we're not going to save the projects in this hall. But it is true that we will give projects a greater political weight. And this is the goal, probably, of today's debates. I will draw the fact that there will be an election day for a month and a day and that the debate is also appropriate. I myself, in the past, together with the members of the then opposition and the coalition, have been able to achieve that in this Chamber we have discussed an important project for the Pomurje area, that is, the Pomurje water supply, and I was very grateful to all those who supported me at that time that together we can give political weight to this project, which is now being successfully implemented or carried out in my opinion. If I look at the results, I mean the allocation of funds and the decision of the OP ROPI environmental project and then the co-financing contracts, and if I continue to draw on the drawback of funds, of course, I can say that in the last two years, it has actually been evident that all of these areas, which I mentioned earlier, are relatively high in growth compared to the beginning of the perspective. If I look at municipalities with decisions of OP ROPI, this is 138 municipalities, almost the whole of Slovenia is green. It is said that we have achieved jealous results in this area. Not all the projects were implemented, probably because the team that was preparing the things did not cooperate constructively. I have been working on the projects since 2007, which is true since this financial perspective, which is being concluded, has, of course, ended after years, and municipalities and ministries have the opportunity to bring the matter to a close by next year. And I closely monitor who he is and how he thinks that when I started working on these projects, he also helped. I will mention the ministers with whom I have worked, and I can also give you an assessment of who has been willing to make the most of these projects. I cooperated with Mr Podobnik, Mr Erjavc, Mr Bogovic, and Mr Židan, Minister of another ministry, as well as Mr Žarnic, also participated. And I must say, if cooperation were at the level of the first minister, which I mentioned and also the minister, who was in our DeSUS quota, I think of Mr Jarnič, then this project of the pomura water pipeline would never be implemented. All the other ministers, including in principle with Minister Erjavac, because at the time we actually gave an incentive, probably also because I was a member of the party that he chaired and was the Minister of the Environment, and the matter went up. But, Your Honor, if you're going to take one major environmental project, then it's a terrible labor. The ministries must take a professional approach here as well. If you're not a professional, then it's all one big problem. The project that I'm talking about right now, this is the pomur water supply, and there were 27 municipalities. And of course, some congregations did not have adequate personnel, but some did not help because they had some sort of solution. But in the end, the first contract, if I may tell you, was signed in 2005. In 2015, the project is likely to be completed not fully, but roughly completed. This is said to have lasted for 10 years, mainly because some were blocking, and some then thank God very much in the end. And this project for Pomurje means something, it's €142.4 million, and it's not a small project. There is also a contribution to the growth of the economy in the area of construction. And today we know that in Pomurje we have the largest construction company and that, in fact, this construction company in all the reports it also reports to the public, says that it is working on environmental projects and that it is also working on the pomur water pipeline as one of the biggest projects, if we sum them all together. However, it would not be right for me to speak only about this project of the waterworks. I must say that we also have a very large project in the field of transport infrastructure in north-eastern Slovenia, which is currently being implemented intensively, and I hope that it will also be implemented by the next year by a certain date. This is the electrification of the railway line from Prague to Hodoš. This project is worth 366 million. At this point it is being overrun, the subways across the railway line are being built in almost all parts of north-eastern Slovenia, and the railway line is also being updated. And here are contributions in some way to all those who are involved in this, and of course to us who are sitting in this National Assembly, because we have contributed our share through the budgets, that these projects have also been recorded within the budget. And this is not the latest project of northeast Slovenia. Another project with which the Pomurci can be commended. It's CERO Puconci. This is an environmental project, is, I think, one of the best-arranged projects that is actually in the final phase. It's actually a green garden, we could say that, and I'm proud that together with all those who have given their share, we have also led this project to this level. Therefore, as the Styrians would say, only chimphs would not commend me, even to the fact that a number of projects have come to a less developed part of Slovenia. And thank you to all those who have cooperated in any way and also supported us.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I regret that this content, this debate, was not before the European elections. There would probably be a little less Euroscepticism in Slovenia, and perhaps everyone would also learn what the 10-year membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union actually means. And I'm going to keep going, because we're just calling off our mandate, thank you. My colleague Jurša pointed out the largest cohesion project in the country, which is the pomur water supply, I come from the municipality, which is the municipality of coordinator for the A leg. It took 10 years from the letter of intent to the signing of co-financing contracts. Ten years. Thank you all – in the ministry, some are sitting here, some are no longer, some are still coming, because the project is not yet completed – thank you also to all colleagues and colleagues of the parliamentary parliaments who went to project meetings and project to make the project run. I'm just holding my hand so that something bigger, weathery, and so on that would delay the project. I am also pleased that, at the end of the year or the end of the 2004-2008 mandate, we have received a co-financing agreement or decisions for the sewerage of the valley, also Pomurje, 6 municipalities, I am glad that this project is coming to an end. We lost the 2008 elections, did not worry at all and did not worry, it is important that we have done something good for people, including the highway and 2008 passed the law of guarantee for the electrification of the Prague-Hodoš railway line, which has now been brought to the National Assembly by the retired Minister of Bajuk. I do not have much time, unfortunately, so the summary of today's debate on my part. If key players wanted and were entrepreneurship passionate, a few budget exercises could easily be found and funds provided for these 11 projects. I'm pointing my finger at the Ministry of Finance again. Projects that could theoretically be completed by the end of 2018, little in the perspective of 2007-2013 remained 2014-2020, depending on the project to the project. If there are no funds, ladies and gentlemen, these projects will fall apart. Contractors will not extend bank guarantees and it is over. This means that these projects are likely to be implemented in the 2014-2020 perspective, but a partnership agreement and an operational programme need to be obtained first. To survive the national elections, to survive the local elections, then to prepare an application for the approval of European funds with annexes, to wait almost again for a decision, to prepare and implement a complete new public order, to hope that there will be no audit requests, and only then to sign the implementing contract and start parts somewhere — when? — 2017 or even 2018. And we are in the same zone as in the perspective that we are calling out, 2007-2013. To make the irony even more ironic, Mrs Alenka Bratušek does not realize that investment in public infrastructure generates economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen, who is this crazy? I regret once again that we will not allow any decision today to allow the Government to provide financial resources and turn on the green light for these 11 environmental projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u48	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that for some, any topic proposed by the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party is superfluous, whether at the beginning of the mandate or at the end of the mandate. However, I would draw your attention to the fact that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, there was also a lack of adequate European funding when we considered the 2014 budget balance and the 2015 budget. We drew attention to the inadequacy of European funds in the Slovenian Democratic Party when we transferred the service responsible from the Ministry of Economy to the Government. And the government or the ministry has been working for six months on the reorganisation rather than on European projects or on the use of resources to remove administrative barriers. And when we talk about this today, we did not know in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it would fall in time before the elections. That's why these vine marks are twisted, too, because everything is propaganda for you and so on. But I come from a city municipality that has proved and demonstrated that you can also effectively launch projects and effectively draw on European funds. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, EPP, Mr. Meh. I think you had it yesterday, and you'll still have enough today. And I don't have an EPP. By means of its services, the local congregation of Celje has proved that it is possible to draw funds if you have the right people if you can open a number of doors, even though the competent ministries here should help the congregations. And when some point me out that they do not have adequate personnel, and so on, that they must seek external assistance, I must say that they often run into companies that work to help prepare projects, but why, in order to be richly cashed, at the expense of all of us taxpayers, instead of taking care of them both at the government, at the ministries and also in the National Assembly, in order to help the municipalities and businesses to draw on European funds with certain measures. When we talk today about whether some projects will be completed in time and when we talk about these 11 projects, I will remind you of another thing that Mr Židan, the President of your party and the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment – you know that he supports the amendment of the Constitution to provide drinking water to citizens and citizens. And these 11 projects actually relate to providing drinking water for citizens and citizens. And it's not just about drinking water. When projects are implemented, adequate jobs are also ensured that certain resources are not needed for social transfers, since the best social policy, as we have already said many times, is that people have the opportunity to work. And through that, we need to look into this. And what has been done by the Government, which encourages municipalities to engage in illegal practices to undertake projects that do not have a financially secured structure, which is contrary to the Law on Community Financing and other laws, is unacceptable for some in this National Assembly to support it. On the other hand, you know that we are the ones who have to keep constitutional regulations and legislation. And that's the point. And I hope, I know that a lot of positive things have been done by the ministry, including the government, but what we find is that Slovenia can't collect money from the soil. Today we have 125,000 unemployed people. We're talking about whether some of them are going to, I'm going to say, under the headings of a company that doesn't have a perspective on whether we're going to keep them alive or whether we're going to allow an external investment ability because there's no money at home. And we don't know how to pump the money that we're offering ourselves. And this is the motto of today's session, and all those people who talk about EPP, I think you need to imagine what you've been doing for two and a half years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Aleksandra Osterman has the floor, followed by Dr Ljubica Jelusic, Mr Marko Pavlišič, Mr Jožef Jerovšek and Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mrs. Alexandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would like to say, as I have already said in my opinion, that in Positive Slovenia we are certainly among the first to transfer these 11 environmental projects to a new financial perspective. We are aware that these projects are also important from the point of view of the economy and of new jobs. But we know, as has been said so many times, that money in the old financial perspective is simply gone in the financial perspective 2007-2013. A lot of conclusions have been made, I have three conclusions before me, 31. 1. In 2013, which was adopted by the municipalities, 27 different municipalities adopted it, this is a notice on how new projects are to be classified, which speaks mainly of reducing administrative burdens and that all projects for which an application for approval of aid in the initial stage of preparation and planning is not coordinated between beneficiaries, the intermediate body and the management body need to be considered in order to transfer their approval and implementation to the programming period in the new financial perspective 2014-2020. Then I also have a second decision, the decision of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which rejected applications for support for 11 environmental projects, which are also discussed today. Then the government is 10. 6. 2014 concluded where it divided these 11 projects into two sets. The first is seven projects that can be launched immediately, or those projects that have building permits, but of course we know that these projects do not have legal basis or a decision. Then there are four other projects that need further opinions and which are also given, in the opinion of the Government, into a new financial perspective. In Positive Slovenia we understand the plight of the mayors, we know that there are small municipalities that do not have enough resources to complete the project. Because the problem is that it is possible for municipalities to carry out a project with their own financial resources up to half, and then there will be a problem when there is no money to complete it. The municipalities that will sign contracts with contractors will have to pay these funds or accounts to the operators at home, which will correspond to or will have to do so if the operators are not able to sue them. This could result in the bankruptcy of the municipalities. At least that's what we want right now. In Positive Slovenia we are also in favour of mayors and municipalities to transfer their projects, if possible, to a phase. We know that this has been decided by only the MOL congregation so far. However, we must be aware that a phase without the consent of the congregations is not possible. Let me also mention that from the environment from which I come, between these seven or eleven projects and among the 7 projects for which the government has now issued a decision also by the Municipality of Kočevje, the supply of drinking water project in the area of Sodražica, Ribnica, Kočevje. And if anything, I personally want this area to be supplied with drinking water. We are also aware that we cannot reach the conclusions proposed at the five meetings where these cohesion funds have been discussed, that these decisions, which are not in accordance with the law, cannot be supported if they are still so attractive. We also wanted to support the opposition's recommendations yesterday in Positive Slovenia, but certainly not with any date that would force the Government to complete these projects or issue decisions, because this is simply not legal, but it is like that. I agree that the Government is continuing with all the activities that these projects are being implemented, especially these seven projects, as well as the other four projects, to move on to a new financial perspective, because, as has already been said, this also affects the economy, affects jobs, we know that these environmental projects will also create no number of jobs that are now much needed in our country. We absolutely must commit the Government to provide financial resources both in the next financial perspective for the implementation of all these projects. Let me also say that we have taken no more decisions on the EU Affairs Committee, recommended to the Government, but all these conclusions, all these recommendations for the municipalities, do not mean much for mayors, because the conclusions, including the future government to come, have to define a timetable for when these decisions need to be implemented, must define a financial basis and, above all, a legal basis with decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u52	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! Some of you are talking about the circumstances in which we are debating the use of European funds, and you are talking about a debate for pre-election purposes. It should be added that it is not only the pre-election purposes of the state-run elections, but it is also likely that local elections are already coming. However, we should also put ourselves in the real situation in which we are at the moment and first find that we are a disbanded state assembly, that is, a national assembly that the President of the Republic has dissolved, and that we are trying to accept recommendations from the current government. Thus, the level of legitimacy of our recommendations and our expectations is very low, including our expectations that the current government will turn things around and adopt a new budget and new rebalancies will work, so these expectations are completely illegal. The fact is that we accept recommendations or we would like to adopt recommendations concerning the future government. I think it would be correct for the applicant to make his recommendations or propose conclusions at all the current meetings of the Committee on the Economy, as well as at any other meeting, so that these conclusions can be drawn up by any government. So so is the one that you'd be headed to alone. For the conclusions should be such as to be lawful. Any government that comes into power can implement the conclusions or recommendations of the National Assembly, but of course only if these are legal. I expect that after these three-and-a-half hours of discussion, and also after eight hours of debate on the Committee on the Economy, the applicant will nevertheless find that the material prepared for today's meeting, which bears the date of 30 May 2014, which concludes with five recommendations, will find that these recommendations are in fact implemented. In these recommendations, you expected or noted that the National Assembly would first find that it had held a debate on the implementation of environmental projects. It was absolutely held by the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on EU Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture, Food, Forests and for what and, of course, plenary sessions. The National Assembly then recommends that the Government verify by 15 June which municipalities, which will not be able to absorb money by the end of 2015 due to the poor implementation of the projects by co-financing decisions. The Government has done all of this and has also made this clear in its opinion, which it has prepared for today's meeting or its opinion on this proposal. The government held talks with the municipalities, made a record, and in this record the congregations made a clear commitment, including those 9 disputed ones, to carry out all their projects by the end of 2015. The third recommendation concerns the preparation by the Government of such documents to draw up such funds in the financial perspective 2014-2020 in order to meet the European Commission standards on the basis of which funds can be maximised. This recommendation does not depend only on Slovenia or it concerns more respect by Slovenia for everything that the European Commission requires of us. Other European money projects cannot even be financed, as can only those designed in accordance with the standards of the European Commission. The fourth proposal refers to the recommendation that sufficient funding be drawn up from the operational programme for the financial perspective 2014-2020 for the implementation of projects approved and forwarded by the IOC in the role of the intermediate body for approval by the managing authority. In the background, we call these projects 11 projects dealing with water supply and wastewater treatment. In this regard, the Government has also reacted and, in its opinion on the recommendation, has concluded that all these projects will be given priority in the new financial perspective 2014-2020. The fifth recommendation, however, concerns the government's activities relating to the frozen €185 million in payments made by the European Commission, as we know from the 185 million, not directly affecting the issue of European funds, but rather the issue of the liquidity of the state budget. I therefore expect the applicant to say that, as far as the expected recommendations of the document are concerned, the Government has implemented everything it has been entrusted with since 30 May this year. I can also say that I have participated in the meetings of the EU Affairs Committee and the Committee on Agriculture, where we have also adopted a number of conclusions and recommendations to the Government and the spirit of all these recommendations, it has always been necessary to ensure that these 11 projects have priority implementation and funding from a new financial perspective and that it is necessary to find out if there are any remaining unused funds from the 2007-2013 financial perspective and those targeted in these 11 projects. The government responded to these two key requests. I hear you made a new request for a new decision at the Committee on the Economy yesterday, so that the government should start issuing co-financing decisions by 20 June. This is now the recommendation or decision that has nothing to do with what you have prepared well, and I believe that with good intentions on 30 May for this debate. But now that you've seen that the government has actually done everything you've asked for on May 30th, you still don't want to admit that it's already done, and you want something new, something extra, which is unfortunately illegal. Of course, the government of co-financing decisions will not be able to issue, nor will it be able to assume the responsibility that is expected on the part of the municipalities. If the congregations have carried out all the procedures, including the choice of contractors, and if these contractors have already given bank guarantees, how should the government now enter into this relationship, into a tripartite relationship and it assumes responsibility for what the congregation has carried out? What, though, if the municipalities have conducted these procedures in an inadequate manner and some other audit procedures will be taken into account in the coming days or months? Therefore, the municipalities should assume their part of the responsibility and the government, as stated in these conclusions, which are actually recommendations for the next government, should, if they are convinced that they have good projects, be able to carry out projects that have all the support and also meet all the above-mentioned standards of the European Commission, start carrying out these projects with their own resources. This is because the municipalities must also ensure their own participation in the use of European funds. We are now at the middle of the year, not to say that I do not know how many years it will take to issue a decision if, by chance, the municipalities start these projects now. In the second half of this year, I believe that they will hardly be able to spend the funds they may have spent on these projects and then, in the morning, the Minister said, in the first quarter of 2015, it would be optimistic to expect the signing of contracts under the new operational programme under the new financial perspective 2014-2020. Realistically, if all procedures were to run normally and if there were no major shocks in the formation of a new government, projects that could be launched by municipalities this year in the second half of the year with their own resources would continue in the coming year with European funds, taking into account the assurance that the government has written that it would be possible to recognise all reimbursements to municipalities from European funds for the costs incurred since 1. 1. 2014 onwards. I think that the government has done, within the framework of its powers, a government that is carrying out ongoing business, which is in fact taking decisions that will oblige the next governments to do the best it can. I agree with all those who say how important it is to support the opportunities of all people in Slovenia to have access to clean drinking water. I also support the amendment of the Constitution, in which we would write down the right of all our citizens and citizens to clean drinking water. But for this purpose it is necessary to provide adequate, firstly, financial resources, and secondly, with appropriate legal bases and decisions. And if we are already looking for the culprits for the current situation, however, it is right to return to 2012 and look closely at the conclusions adopted by the government on 11 October 2012 and which say that the possibility of additional spending rights not only on environmental projects, but on environmental cohesion, is being adopted on all three operational programmes. From the development of human resources and regional development to the development of environmental and transport infrastructure. It is said that the then government considered that all three operational programmes would have difficulties in drawing on European funds and allowed additional spending rights, expecting that some projects for which decisions were also issued in 2017 would probably be in a very suspicious and strange way, so that some of those projects would probably not be implemented by the end of 2015. However, that government in 2012 was very cautious in making commitments to increase the budget due to European cohesion. I do not understand why now the proposer who led the then government in 2012 asks that the current government should be further indebted, or that it is looking for some additional, additional resources that go beyond budget spending, as adopted for 2014, 2015. Each of these Decisions states that these additional confirmed operations under additional spending rights shall be confirmed but shall not constitute additional financial burdens for the 2012, 2013 and 2014. In October 2012, the government knew very precisely that it was illegal to adopt decisions that went beyond the budget adopted. Why is it now expected from this government to take illegal decisions? Some words were also suggested, such as that of the current government and the Ministry of Agriculture drawing congregations by the nose. If anyone started to pull the municipalities, it was the one who ordered municipalities to start preparing projects in 2012 and then found that these municipalities had prepared not only 180 million projects, as much as the amount of money allocated in the integrated budget for these additional spending rights, but those projects were for 500 million. This is what these 11 projects are now about. For 180 million there were funds and for 235 additional million there were no funds, not in the integrated budget and not in the European funds. So I would say, let us all be honest together, and let us acknowledge the history of these projects. Let us tell the municipalities that have properly prepared these projects to start with them, as the Government has said in its conclusions, and there is no need for the Ministry of Finance to sit here, because when the Government adopts its decisions, then the Ministry of Finance also agrees with them, even if they are in writing. This only means that the Ministry of Finance did not object when these proposed conclusions were adopted at the letter meeting. Thus, we follow the procedure proposed by the Government in its conclusions of 10 June, and let us expect the next government to be constructive enough to continue to implement these conclusions. As was the Government in 2013, which continued to implement the 2012 decisions of the Government of Janez Janša, of 11 October 2012. If the government of Alenka Bratušek were wicked in 2013 and did not respect the conclusions of the previous government, which, by the way, some governments have been working in the past to disregard the conclusions of the previous governments. So if I were evil, I wouldn't respect these conclusions. Thus they continued to issue decisions within the framework of the 180 million from the State budget, as envisaged by the Government of Janez Janša of October 2012. I place my heart on the next government to try to respect these conclusions that we are talking about today. I also suggest to the proposers that they cease to come up with new conclusions that are unusable, illegal and unfulfilled. It should remain, if it has already made one recommendation, to remain within its recommendations, which were reasonable. If these recommendations were addressed both on the Committee on the Economy and today, it is likely that none of us would have had anything against them, but the truth is that they are obviously too ambitious, so the government has already made them all. And now, with new and new proposals and new enlargements of the debates, you want to propose things that, at this point in time, are impossible with these powers of this disbanded Parliament and of the government that manages ongoing transactions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that the continuation of this debate be carried out as reasonably as possible and that we find out what has been done, what things have been carried out and what else might be appropriate to recommend to the future government. But by discussing the fact that this government has done nothing to draw congregations around and similar, these discussions do not show that it is constructive because it is a denial of the facts or of what the government of Alenka Bratušek has already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor, followed by Mr Ljubo Žnidar, then Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Branko Smodiš. Please, Mr. Marko Pavlišič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Mrs Ramshak, it was good to have you here, because Mr Lah had apparently escaped before he heard the answer, but earlier he was so happy to ask me to explain a little what I was saying on the committee. You said we didn't know how to draw funds. All available funds are distributed! More than that, not only that one, but also that part of the integrated budget is divided. So I really don't know how you got that grade here. Apparently, you're into these stories too, because you know that, once after seven mountains and seven rivers, there's an EU project lying on EU funds, so don't let it get pumped. Look, these are the fairy tales you've already sold on the board, and you're doing it here today. But let me know what these projects are. What are these projects that reserve these funds, and they will not draw on them, and these funds will remain unused? Tell me exactly what these projects are. Here I have to commend Mr Lach, but he couldn't answer that question on the committee yesterday, so we've asked him a few times or I've pawned it myself a few times. But he obviously spent his time at night focusing on these projects, and today he listed three specific projects that he believes could be the source of those 40 million that we need to bridge in these eleven projects, as Mr Lach mentioned. We need $40 million from his estimate to bridge. And that's why he listed the following projects: CERO Zasavje, also the Government has marked this project as a risky project – hello Mr. Lah, it's nice that you came back, about your CERO Zasavje project – the government also recognized this project as a risk and they held an appropriate meeting with the contractors or this project. Let me tell which municipalities Mr Lah proposes to take 5 million 494 thousand 187.31 euros. It is the municipality of Hrastnik, the municipality of Litija, the municipality of Zagorje ob Savi, the municipality of Trbovlje and the municipality of Radeče. That's what the record says. And back at the second point, the beneficiary's explanation reads, "The beneficiary explains that the operation will be completed within the scheduled time." And here we have the signature, Mayor Miran Jerič. This project, for which you propose to suspend and withdraw these funds to those municipalities, they estimate that the operation will be completed within the scheduled period. Let's take a look at the next one you mentioned, and I really thank you for finding these three projects by today. The following was mentioned CERO Dolenjska. Here I have a minutes of the meeting regarding the implementation of the operation of the Regional Waste Management Centre CERO Dolenjska,, second phase. Say, you are proposing, if you are correctly understood, that 18 million 969 000 704.06 euro is taken by beneficiaries, Municipality of Novo mesto, Municipality of Šentjernej, Municipality of Žužemberk, Municipality of Dolenjske Toplice, Municipality of Škocjan, Municipality of Mirna Peč, Municipality of Šmarješke Toplice, Municipality of Straža, Municipality of Krško, Municipality of Brežice, Municipality of Sevnica, Municipality of Kostanjevica na Krka, Municipality of Črnomelj, Municipality of Metlika and Municipality of Semič. 18 million, almost 19 million. And here again explained to the beneficiaries that beyond the eligibility period, there will be an expenditure of approximately 1% of the total investment. In short, most of the project will end within 1%, which means that about 18 million will come about 180,000 or 190, because we're there at the border, and we're supposed to be out there. So, according to the signatory, in this case this is Mr Aloji Muhič, Mayor, here we have a signature on this record, there will be 190,000 outside of this. Your third proposal was CERO Styria, if I remember correctly. Here we also have a record of this project. It is for 7 million 280 thousand Euros, namely Mr Lah, to be taken by beneficiaries of Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, Municipality of Makola, Municipality of Poljčane, Municipality of Oplotnica, Municipality of Rače-Fram, Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, Municipality of Vitanje, Municipality of Zreče. So let it be taken away from these congregations. Let's see what the beneficiaries have found here, it's those who run this project. The beneficiary shall ensure that the operation is carried out to the extent and within the time limits set out in the decision. Construction works are expected to be completed in August 2014. So it's about two, three months. The signatory here is Mr Stanislav Mlakar, Deputy Mayor, after being authorised in this case. Of the 40 million that you yourself have found that we need to bridge these 11 projects until we can draw from the new financial perspective, you have found the source in these projects, but even if I add this together, we get 7 million 200 000 plus 19 million plus 5 million, but we do not get to the 40 million that you need, even though all the beneficiaries here ensure that these projects are completed within the deadline. That's why I'm asking you again to tell us where to get this $40 million. Because of me, you can pick this up from some other budget line. When we discussed the budget in the National Assembly, you did not make any amendments to this budget under this heading. This has become relevant to you now that the elections are coming. Now, I don't know which ones are more fond of you here, or local or state, but that's when it became real. However, when this had to be discussed in the framework of the budget, nothing at that time. Look, we've heard about the importance of clean drinking water many times today. I absolutely agree with that. The State must ensure and help to ensure that the municipalities properly regulate this infrastructure. But infrastructure, clean drinking water supply is just one part. Part two, we also need this pure drinking water to then distribute through this supply infrastructure. What you're proposing here is three projects that are all related to waste management. However, without proper and appropriate treatment of waste, there will be no clean drinking water. Nor will clean drinking water be distributed through the infrastructure you are proposing with these other projects that I agree are absolutely necessary and must be implemented as soon as possible. However, we also need adequate financial resources to do so. And with financial resources, unfortunately, we're still where we were yesterday. Despite your suggestions, we're still talking about fairy tales. I can't say otherwise. We must be aware here that every project is important, brings new jobs, but each such project must also have a financial structure. If we do not have this completed financial structure, if the project in the middle runs out of funds and cannot continue – what will we get? We get unpaid workers, we get unpaid subcontractors, and we get unpaid loans. We've already seen this in a number of projects in this country. But we will get something else – we will get one beautiful concrete monument. And we've met one of those around here before. So, please, if you are suggesting that these projects be implemented, and you have nicely listed all these projects in the proposal for conclusions, for which you suggest that there are still some means to be realized, please give it on the other hand please specifically suggest resources for these funds. Because of me, we can repeat again all three projects that you mentioned, Mr Lah, and thank you for being a step forward from yesterday. And we can look again at all these congregations to whom you suggest that it be taken to see if there is anything we can do here or not. But then put this in some proposal for a decision, so you suggest that the municipalities take so many and so many millions of them. And then we'll discuss it. We can also discuss whether it is more important that we have projects that provide infrastructure for the distribution of clean water, or whether it is more important that projects that provide clean water through proper waste management receive a higher priority. We can also debate this here, just let's stop discussing what we would give and nothing about where we would take it. I understand that this is the mission of the opposition to share pre-election candy, and this can be a job. But look, you have to be aware of reality, and last but not least your colleague is on the board yesterday as the last solution, when he didn't know where to say where to get the funds from, and he said, "Well, when we're in the government, we're going to solve all this." Look, it can be that too, but then let's all be aware that this is a pre-election fight and that it's a pre-election show. But I think it's somewhere else and not in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u55	Thank you very much. He asked for a replica of Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u56	Mr. Pavlišič, you misunderstood me. You also challenged yesterday to tell us which projects to take money, even listing the congregations. I was talking about those projects that we think we know, and we're confident, not just me, but those that work at the Ministry that are the custodians of these projects to carry out these projects phased out. I said I don't know about the project in Slovenia Bistrica, but for the other two, I know they don't have environmental permits. An environmental permit is a prerequisite for obtaining a building permit. And when you get a building permit, then you start building. This was already wrong in these proceedings because a number of projects selected the contractor before obtaining the building permit. In the case of a yellow book, this is clear because the contractor created the project and then obtained a building permit. In the other case, no. If you don't have a building permit, you can't start building. And these projects, as you've read, 20 million, if they don't have an environmental permit now, will take at least half a year to get a building permit. Then how for 20 million to build an object to be completed in one year. Each project has a timetable, each contractor has to attach it, and no more can be done. Each investment has a certain timeline. We have proposed to help these projects so that they will not go by, that they will not be overrun by time and will not be implemented by the end of 2015. What if they're not executed? Then, in 2016, the municipalities can only complete them with their own resources. However, if they do not have these resources to complete, all European money spent must be repaid with interest. We have proposed a solution not to do so. You also listed the municipality of Mirna Pec, which is in one of the projects where I was elected four times as mayor. And I've done a lot of projects. And I know how long it takes for some 20-million-dollar project to be implemented. In addition, we have Novo Gorica, where they withdrew from the project, because the funds were also not redistributed. And if there's only half of these funds, we're already getting 30 million that might be enough for these projects. Only on these three where they're left [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u57	It's been three minutes, Mr. Lach.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u58	You know, Mr. Pavlišič, Prešeren said, "Only the shoes belong to the hooves."
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u59	Procedurally, please, Mr. Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr Lah is obviously not familiar with this material that we have received and I quote it in my debate, so I conclude from his replica. Therefore, I am procedurally proposing that Mr Lah be provided with this material, which was given yesterday on a committee in which there are clear answers regarding the allocation of individual projects. Among them, for example, is what I said before, it is said, "the beneficiary ensures that the operation will be completed." Also in connection with building permits and these matters are explained in terms of, say, "... the supervisory engineer made comments on the draft PGD and the contractor completes the documentation for the acquisition of the building permit..." and so on. I am gradually proposing that Mr Lach be informed of this material so that he will not speak here in just three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Pavlišič, I am sure that Mr Zvonko Lah is such an experienced Member that he will surely obtain all the necessary documentation if he does not have it. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u62	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday's media addresses are very optimistic for some very happy: Bratuškova and Židan with the mayors found a solution for 11 environmental projects. I'd say that's encouraging, but when you look at the content or the solution, then you seriously wonder what these government solutions are. Below is the title Salvation, or is it just a pre-election promise? I'll stop at the rescue. The Government's conclusions are as follows for 11 problematic environmental projects. The municipalities can continue projects and finance them from their own municipal resources. Is that a solution? The municipalities can invest in their projects for their money. This is the government's solution. That's brand new to me. In short, it's not a solution for me. And then there's the statement by Minister Jew: "We give the municipalities the opportunity to continue the projects themselves." Respectful ones, what opportunity do the congregations need to continue their projects with their money? That's a really good, encouraging move. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for any minister's opportunity to continue their projects for their money. Then another minister's promise that, according to his assessment, the decisions could be signed in the following year, which is in 2015. This is said to be the case, the Minister estimates that this decision could be signed in 2015. I don't think the mayors are so naive that they won't believe such promises in the air without any assurance or document. I don't believe in the government myself that these promises will be fulfilled. I will give you a very specific example, a statement by Minister Omerzel, who said he was naive because he trusted the government to provide him with financial resources later. He said I'd never do that again. This was stated by Minister Omerzel, who could not rely on the government's promises. And then after four months of the current year, in fact, in the departmental ministry, he's out of funds. He's running out of funds because he trusted the government. These are government promises, these are facts, this is not a pre-election campaign. These are the facts. And I believe and I know that the mayors will not be as naive as Minister Omerzel was to believe that the government will fulfill these promises. If these mayors had done so in the past, I'd tell you today they wouldn't be mayors. Because that's not how it's done. It's not about making promises. They do not take investment on promises, but drive on real and solid grounds, especially if these are financial bases. Here I absolutely claim that the actual government and thus the Minister of the Jews is making a fool of the mayors. Today in the morning, Minister Židan stated that the environmental projects that are in place are running successfully and well. And I'd call that not true. That is why I am going to ask the distinguished Secretary of State one specific question. I'm talking about the project Providing anti-floating safety in the Lower Savina Valley, the first phase. On 26 March 2014, it is estimated that in March of this year a decision was taken at the government's letter meeting, where spending rights for the project increased by 90 million 955 000. The project is in operational implementation, but the project is stopped. And I want to know why this project is stopped. It is not a financial problem, it is not only a basic financial framework, even a government decision of March to increase spending rights, but the project is physically stopped. I am really interested in a concrete answer to why the project, which we know must run, that European funds are being used, why this project is being stopped. And I'd like to ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following has the word Franci Breznik, followed by Mr Branko Smodiš, Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I must admit that when a person listens to debates, he listens to whether I am still part of a story, whether I was present, or maybe I was at another session, and in fact I misunderstood. The last 54th urgent meeting of the Committee on the Economy, however, meant that I was the one who led it, as well as the continuation when this meeting was suspended, I led it. And I have monitored for the first time all the guests, all their discussions, dialogues and all those personal stories that they have entrusted to me both during and after the session. And look, at this session, I'm talking, of course, about yesterday's 7:00 p.m. The hours when we began the meeting of the Committee on the Economy, we had nine mayors present at this meeting who have prepared projects, together with the President of the Community of Municipalities, Mayor of Pivka Mr Smrdel. These mayors were bitter. They have experienced something that at least officially does not happen in politics. They experienced that the President of the Government and the Minister of Agriculture were literally lying to the cameras. The Government then sends a document with the following content to the Committee on the Economy at its 134th letter meeting this afternoon. Before that, press releases, Radio Slovenia, to municipalities in the coming 235 million European water supply money, the money will be, after a "binding decision" by the government, a diction in one of the sentences to be a binding decision by the government. This was in a radio journal, Radio Slovenia. Time is 19.03. So three minutes after we started with the Committee on the Economy. Next article in Del: Government found a solution for environmental projects, journalist Barbara Pavlin. Next article of Primorska novice: Bratuškova and Židan with the mayors found a solution for 11 environmental projects. The only news, the only diary that doubted this as much as possible, was given to a journalist Vanja Brkič at the cabinet conclusions of the 134th letter meeting, and yet did she at least specifically write: A solution or just a pre-election promise? We have also started a meeting of the Committee on the Economy with this work. And at this session or half an hour before the session, somehow the mayors realized that they literally went thirsty over the water. Literally, someone took them through the water, lied to them, especially in front of cameras, and the media also wrote about it. It's been 48 hours now, and I haven't seen any articles in any media that would deny exactly these big headlines that they wrote in their journals into some kind of communication. It lies to citizens and citizens, deceives the public, deceives primarily those who are criminally, materially responsible for these projects, these are the mayors of these municipalities. Above all, no solution can be found. Now let's see what happened after the 134th letter meeting of the government, which is the points of the government. Look at this dictatorship, or do you think these dictates are binding? Second point: The RS Government estimates that the following projects can be launched. Third point: The Government assesses that the implementation of four environmental projects will be possible The fourth point: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to beneficiaries and the fifth point: Under points 2 and 3 they will be ranked as priority given the fulfilment of the conditions. [[…]] [[..]] Do you think any of these points are binding? Was that the solution? Clipping of 10. The 6th I spoke about and the government's conclusions. This is one of the first issues that shows a clear picture of these matters. Today we have been looking for the culprit why these projects do not have a real financial base or an integrated budget. Look, this is where my colleague Yelušičeva spoke and pointed with her hands at the other Janšev government. But, look, the problem is that at the very beginning, Minister Židan thanked his colleague Bogovic, who led the Ministry of Agriculture in another Janšev government, that he has accelerated certain projects, that somehow, I can say, some bad period mainly of the Pahor government has somehow been replaced. And you are also talking here today about some of my fellow Members deceiving. These fellow Members were ministers who made up most of the major projects in this country. My colleague Lach and everyone else were all mayors. I think colleague Lah was even four. These are the people who are operationally working on projects and are aware of this. And look, I will not just say whether the supply of Slovenia with quality drinking water in certain regions is necessary. This must be the national interest, which you are all talking about today, respected colleagues and colleagues. This must be a national interest. Take a good kilometer away from the Oncology Institute, even a number of cancer patients whose diseases are also often the cause of unhealthy and unclean drinking water, which is widely found in Slovenia, even in Prekmurje, where some colleagues come from, highly contaminated with pesticides, herbicides and so on. And I think this must be a national interest. And now we're saying there's no money. Just look at the example, we gave a guarantee for TES 6, for example, we recapitalised in this mandate, we put 3.2 billion euros in banks. The continuation, a few days ago, sparked the conscience that we had in the last three years — the Court of Auditors literally gave a conscience — of 18 000 students who had been falsely enrolled. We have lost 50 million euros only through student benefits. Look, the Minister of Education is in these days, I think on vacation, he surrendered to fate and in a year and a few months there is not a single structural reform in this government. Not a single structural reform. And look, the government has done little to draw on these cohesion projects in this mandate. She boasted of some parts, the acceleration made by another Yanshe government. These are the facts. That's what the minister of the Jews said today. Now, since you're probably going to tell me I'm wrong, I'm going to tell the other thing that I'm on the board. I come from the Slovenian Mountains. Municipalities in Slovenske gorica, these are municipalities, in particular those which have the administrative unit Lenart, Cerkvenjak, Sv. Anna, St. Three, Benedict and St. Jurij, with six other co-signatories, signed the so-called North East Slovenia comprehensive supply project with pure drinking water with the municipalities of Šentilj, Kungota. This project started in 2008. We had a number of problems with the collapse of large construction companies, but the project was successfully completed last year. This is what we needed, I can say, was of vital importance for the Slovenian Mountains, because we had more than 40 years old water pipes with asbestos pipes, we needed a greater flow of water for termes in Benedict so that the potential investor of a hotel there would also get a good infrastructure connection, as far as the water is concerned. These are projects of vital importance. This project was financed in 59% of cohesion funds, 27% of all municipalities contributed and 14% had to be contributed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Since Mr Židan was Minister for Agriculture, these municipalities have not been received, despite the completion of the project last year, to date no euro from the Ministry of Agriculture. Not a single euro! Can you tell me why not? Two questions sent on this subject, slightly less than 5 million debt, the Ministry of Agriculture, not a single euro, respected citizens and citizens. Not a single euro, I repeat. Look, one more thing. I'm just warning you, I can only warn you of mistakes. Don't believe them! Follow them, by their actions you will recognize them, not by their words. And this is typical of some policies in this country. As a Member, who I have been in Parliament for two and a half years when we received the second Janša government, I think that 14 days after the government was established, we immediately proposed a new Law on Agricultural Lands. In Pahor's government, Minister Židan, who speaks of preserving agriculture, immediately proposes a new Law on Agricultural Lands. Young farmers in the Slovenski Gorica during the night realize that the parcel that their father gave them to stay at home to build houses must pay 10,000 euros to change their destination. In the Slovenian Gorges, on some shore where it does not in fact threaten any agricultural land, because people have been so clever for centuries in this area that they have always built houses on top of each other, in the hills, and have kept the most beautiful agricultural land for processing. And, look, 10,000 euros for a change of destination! You've raised cadastral income in this government. Is it raising some quality or self - care with food? Lower VAT rate raise by 1%, Slovenian food chain is not in this lower price class. So also a percentage of the VAT increase means that if you already have more expensive food today, it will be even more expensive. And even more expensive will be the Slovenian manufacturing industry. These are projects of the Ministry of Agriculture led by Dejan Židan. One is advertising when you have favored media, and the other is projects to destroy small farmers, especially those I know best. As a son of a Slovenian veterinarian, I told them how they suffered. These people have suffered, have small farms, struggle to survive, engage in certain activities on farms so that the farm can survive. And look, agriculture – I'm not surprised that Slovenia is growing. With people who do not have a real basis, which are not really practitioners who perform in front of cameras, but in reality do nothing, we cannot save agriculture, and consequently, through these projects, not an economic sector such as construction, and we cannot carry out these projects to the end, because this practice tells us. This story from the Slovenian Mountains where I come from is a typical story. That's unacceptable. And now you will certainly say that they did not pay because there was one situation for 200 000 euros, as far as I have the information that it was somehow suspicious. And then you keep 4.7 million Euros. In municipalities with budgets of between 2 million and 3 million, Lenart may be an exception with an 8 million euro budget. That's not how you do it. I believe that, according to some information, Mr Juden has replaced the guardian of the contract because he has not acted reasonably, however, but look, these congregations have now rented short-term loans, they are indebted, and this is happening to us. And that is also what my colleagues have pointed out at the meeting, what will happen if the Government, which has not given any binding project, what will happen to these municipalities if these 11 projects are implemented. What's gonna happen? They're going to fail. Before that, they will not fail because the Ministry of Finance will not give them the consent to be in debt. And we don't know at all, and we don't have an answer, we can't, we can't prejudge things, whether these projects could be the basis of some new European financial perspective in the area of cohesion policy. We probably don't know. It's a lotto. And the essence of the debate on the committee is who will take the risk at that time. And the state can take over. If we wanted to solve this problem, we could go with some guarantee law and say, look, you don't have a problem, we take risks at that time, we take risks to banks, we take risks to private banks, we take all the risks for the people who did the least for this country. Bankers. How many took off here over 500 meters? What has the New Ljubljana Bank done in the last two years, what have they done? Are the managers gone — the middle and senior managers? No, no, no. They closed down certain branches of some small bank workers who were not responsible for this crisis or for this bank hole. And that's how these problems are solved. No great man ever answers in this country. And look, here are the culprits primarily the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture. We could come by law and we wanted to tell you in this debate that you have a word, if you go to that risk, we will give you support. We don't care if you're the Minister of the Left Government or not, but we'll give you this political support that, however it may be, we'll keep our word in the next government. We would like to say that we have given you our support, that the country has taken a risk, that it has committed itself if there is a non-realisation by the European Union or the European Commission, that you have some political support. That's what we wanted to give you. That was the basis, no advertising. I hope you'll somehow take this benevolence for a lease. And also that sixth amendment, which we proposed to the Members later as the Committee's proposal, went in the direction of 30 June. It was a little short, but it's time to commit to what needs to be done. You can't run projects without a certain timeline. And that's clear, too. Anyone who is at least a little experienced who is operational, who has ever done any project in different areas in his life, is aware of this. I can only ask you for reasonableness, to help these mayors. And please call them again if you think we are deceiving the Slovenian public, let them once again tell us what we talked about on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u65	Thank you very much. First of all, the representative of the Government of Mags has the floor. Andrej Jerin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to answer the specific question posed by Mr Žnidar, which relates to Savinja's flood safety. The Member of Parliament spoke of two separate matters. The decision taken by the Government in March to provide an additional EUR 100 million by redeployments for the implementation of ten drinking water and water supply projects does not relate to the Savinja Flood Safety Project. Savinja's flood safety is an extremely important project to ensure greater flood safety in Slovenia by 4,000 hectares of territory. This project is worth about €40 million. This is supposed to generate €32 million from the European cash register. The project is being implemented in three key areas. It is completed within the area of Laško. In the field of Light is completed up to about 87% and further completion has been complicated in the field. The problem was that locals were not willing to make their land available so that the state could ensure their flood safety. In the area of the cell area, however, the realisation is slightly less than 50%. And there it is. Construction stopped at eight construction sites. That's because it was going in an illegal way. In fact, construction which is not in conformity with the legislation cannot be carried out. The problem was that no building permits were issued. To date, in six of the eight construction sites, the contractor has already obtained a building permit and the works are continuing and two are still standing and are in the process of obtaining a building permit, as is said in the process of providing legal conditions for them to continue to draw on public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Branko, you are fashionable.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! Now I don't know if I'm at the right point, because earlier, a colleague who was in front of me said some things that had nothing to do with the agenda of today's session. I will not repeat myself because what has already been said is that repetition in this National Assembly is already a national sport. I'm just going to mention a few things that seem important to me. Minister of the Jews and his associates gave clear answers, but someone doesn't hear them or wants to hear them. That's the question now. The next thing I know what matters to me is that many times it has been said who bears responsibility, talk about seriousness and things like that. Did Minister Židan sign contracts for projects in 2007? And these contracts, I must say, are unique because such contracts in the economy are not signed so that they cannot be repealed. But that was in 2007. He wasn't Minister of the Jews at the time. But he knows who was the minister and which government was there to make no mistake. If this treaty had not been so signed then, I do not think that we would have had such problems with these eleven projects today, and it could have been easier to resolve. But I don't know. It's nice to talk here. Come on. Relax. Even on the Committee on the Economy it was said, take a loan, but I don't know what. But here, let's ask ourselves, the proponents are passionate advocates of the golden fiscal rule, and here, then, is duality. Take a loan and take a gold fiscal rule. Next. That in 2014 not all citizens and citizens of Slovenia have drinking water. Former mayors, current mayors, as well as all those responsible in the country, must also pour their ashes here. It's really sad or even a disaster that not everyone has travel water. About projects you don't think will be implemented. Here perhaps the tasks were not carried out by the Association of Municipal Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of Municipalities of Slovenia to agree with those municipalities which think they could go to the stage to at least help them. But no. Unfortunately not. They have so far been and very interesting statements have been made on the Committee as well. Debt, credit. Earlier, if I heard correctly, someone proposed concessions for bathing sites. It's really interesting, the spas, the thermals. So far, you've kept saying that the economy should not be burdened, but with these concessions, tourism would be burdened. And tourism is so much more that it swims over the water, and we're going to give these concessions. Interesting, isn't it? Next. The proposer and the mayors of 11 projects would like to take the money from other projects already in progress. Mr. Pavlišič said it well earlier. I can't believe the contracts are signed, those 2007s, so I won't say it again. It is also sad that, at a time when parliamentary and local elections are on the threshold, such extraordinary meetings are called. But now, Mr Lah, I have asked you several times at every session why you are burdened by the waterworks. Let me tell you something, Premur C's leg isn't precocious, it's pomur's water supply. C-leg is made in Prkleia. That's on the other side of the Wall, which isn't Premur's C-neck. I don't even know where you get a thousand miles for C-neck. In C-neck, the number has decreased, has not increased, due to the European Union. Risky projects that you keep mentioning – which are they? Whether it is only the pomur water supply or whether the CERO project is also a risk. I don't know, I hope not, and it will be performed because I want everything to be done in Slovenia. I have nothing against other projects. Therefore, once again I ask you, Mr Lah, as an SDS Member, what bothers you so much about the pomura water supply, or really we should not get cohesion funds in Pomura, which is sad. As I told you yesterday and the other day, I drive home to Prlecia every day, to Ljutomer and see how C-neck is progressing. It's progressing very well, so don't worry about it being done. In the end, I would just add, all thanks to Minister Jeddan and his associates for the work they have done. Really, thank you. They're working maximum, and so far I think they've done the most for drinking water. But it is desirable that it enters the constitution, that drinking water is true for everyone. Finally, thanks for drawing on EU funds. I think these people would deserve some commendation today, but they're not just playing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u70	I've been called many times, and I've been misunderstood. I don't mind the pomur water supply or Project C. As far as the pipelines are concerned, the minister said here today. He said a million thousand yards. That's a thousand miles for all the plumbing, not the pomur water. Since it is a very long length of water pipes, whose laying requires a certain time and a certain procedure, that it is quality laid down, because these pipes have to withstand all the pressures of 50 years, but not just a few years, I am concerned that such projects, which are huge if they are already disputed about the completion of this deadline, could be phased out and would be easier to ensure their own share if distributed. The slower it works, the better it works. That's what I thought. As for CERO, I mentioned earlier that I am concerned that it does not have an environmental permit, that one of the projects in which my congregation is involved, and I am concerned that the project will not be completed, because all of these municipalities, which Mr Pavlisič previously counted, will have to repay with interest these European funds. It is known that each project has a specific construction time and then an experimental operation, that the project is practically completed. And that takes your time. Why hurry to the nose now, if it is possible to build it more slowly and more qualitatively, and at the same time start projects that are already ready and can start building immediately. That's all this is about. But I've only taken what my colleagues or the representatives of the ministries here have said is that there are some projects, 9 are those that are questionable. I also explained earlier in my discussion why they seem questionable. Why did the mayors sign these statements? And I'm still worried that these projects won't be completed. Apparently, the government has nothing to worry about. It is important for the government to have the mayors' statements that expire this October and will no longer be mayors [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u71	Three minutes, Mr. Tink Lah. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u72	I'm sorry. That's all I wanted was that it wasn't about taking away funds so projects weren't being implemented. It's about quality performance and starting with others who are ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next one would have the word mag. Ivan Vogrin, he's not in the hall. Mr. Aloise Potočnik, he's giving up. Before that, I apologize, Mr Joseph Jerovšek. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The problem we are talking about today is extremely important for Slovenia. The government should be grateful for the concerns of Members about how some projects already under construction will end. One of these is the second-order waste management centre in Slovenia Bistrica, which is not intended to be compromised by this information. But we know that this state component is limping everywhere, and the question is whether it will be completed in time. This is my concern that there will be no further matters to come to pass, that it may not be completed or come back to anything. I'll speak in principle, in general. It is a shame that a number of projects that have been prepared have taken place at the Ministry of Agriculture or with an environmental permit. In fact, the Minister explains other things after Slovenia. What depends on the fate of many municipalities and what we will draw from European funds is not discussed. It seems to me that all of this is due to a completely incompetent government policy. All that we are now witnessing, how this government will reserve the right to appoint a Commissioner in derogation, of course, is that it will be able to choose its anointed. But it's not like she's going to choose by skill, by human form. Also, moving a secretary of state from one ministry to another ministry to show that something is happening is, to say the least, something stupid, unheard of. I don't think that Mrs Andreja is guilty of anything here, Secretary of State, she was my great secretary of the investigative commission for two months, so I don't want to involve her, but when the officials start moving with the Ministry to the Ministry or in the cabinet of the President of the Government, where I'm supposed to do the same, and telling people that it's going to happen now because she's closer to the President of the Government, but I think it's unsavoury. The President of the Government has made many such moves in recent months. I am joining all our Members, who are more expert as former mayors, who know precisely these problems, with which the country deliberately restricts, delays and tactics, that in the final stage I do not know where this money is taken. It is not, however, that where mayors and local communities have prepared everything to make the country as expedient as possible. And there's no such thing as expediency. Especially those government departments that are also directly involved, in fact, there is no mutual coordination. And it's blocked. Unfortunately, in the present government, at every step of the way, we notice that the left does not know what the right hand does. One such case is the withdrawal of money from higher education. Then the president of the government says there's been a mistake. The Minister now makes it clear that this is what was planned. Under such conditions, we will not succeed in such a stability in Europe. They don't trust us anymore. And of course we're gonna lose that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr. Only Bevk, who is not in the hall. Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, a warm welcome to all! For the last time, I said at a board meeting the night before yesterday, when we were discussing this matter, that it was a thing that had already been dealt with, I don't know, five or six times. We have already adopted very good conclusions at the April meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment and at the Committee on European Union Affairs, as well as the Committee on the Economy before. If things were going normally, I'm sure that would be enough, because sometimes they said in our neighborhood that they would say it twice in the mill and saw, but otherwise they don't have to, otherwise you have to hear it once. Such discussions should not, of course, be necessary. I think and I am sure that it is not the task of the National Assembly or any committee to seek solutions that require such and such solutions, but it is the task, the control task of government institutions, and this part of the State institutions is to seek and find solutions and projects, in this case in cooperation with the groups of municipalities where these projects are properly implemented and implemented in a timely manner, and to ensure that European funds are also used. That's what this is all about. There are two reasons why these projects need to be implemented, including environmental ones, on transport infrastructure, the same in the field of personnel, social and more. After all, these are the most generous means. After all, these are funds that no one gives us from Europe, but they are the funds that Slovenia pays to Europe every month. And the bad master is the one who doesn't pull these funds back if he has a chance. And we have this option in the first and next financial perspective. That's why it's gonna be the country's fault if we don't. At that time, we adopted three conclusions on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. I thought, because I am leading this committee, that on the basis of these three conclusions, we will be one of the deadlines for realisation of the echo by the Government 15. June, and I thought that this time after June 15th, because I do not want to be ahead of schedule, I would like to convene a committee meeting to address this same issue again. Because of this predetermined time and due to today’s consideration, it is likely that without the need to do so, it will not make sense. We'll decide that. But there we discussed in the direction that even for the 11 projects that are being held today in this session, conditions for realisation would be created. I also agree that the implementation of these projects must be in accordance with the legislation that no one must be forced to sign something for which he may be responsible in court within a few years, whether it be the mayor, minister or anyone, someone who, for example, is engaged in or led by a municipal administration or a medical administration with these projects. One problem is certainly with us, but I am very reluctant to criticize back, and it is necessary to look for solutions for the future. If we're criticizing backwards, then we'll find a critic who makes mistakes for everyone. Everyone has done something in recent years or in recent decades. They like to attribute to us, for example, some problems in agriculture, since it is known who led agriculture, although two-thirds or three-quarters of a period, at least what I am in this Parliament, since 1996, we may have managed agriculture for one third or less of that period with the Minister, but this has stuck to our noses. There's also a lot of people sitting in this hall. I don't like this way of working, because we all have certain opportunities to fix things, to make things right, without making money, to give good solutions. It is up to parliamentarians to adopt appropriate legislation and to control the implementation of this legislation and programmes adopted in Slovenia in one way or another. Earlier, one of my colleagues suggested to me one thought, as regards the cohesion and other assets of this fund, of the European Fund, that we are very keen to push this part once into this ministry, for the second time into the second ministry, for the third time to the government level, as is now the case. I don't know, I have a feeling that where someone has a greater desire and interest, the result is that things break down in these moves, the result is that they get a little blurred in these moves. It's a similar thing with energy. Energy, I have in mind, it's always there, I'm going to have a little grave where it fits the current Prime Minister or who he trusts most of the ministers, and then usually that coalition drops the energy. And let's move this loving energy from the economy to where I believe it was already at the ILO, and we said that this is the MOP in the 2000-2004 resistance, now it's on some infrastructure and I know what else. The same is true of these funds. I firmly believe that it is necessary for every current government to carry out these projects in accordance with legislation. After all, many colleagues and colleagues have already said that when we are in these 11 projects, water is, of course, the one to which we have the right to all those who live in this area and who also come to our beautiful country, come occasionally or permanently, and, of course, we and the government are responsible for bringing this water to everyone where they need it for their health and other needs in due course and with the help of these European funds. I would not want this to be a number of pre-election mints and so on, but it is the government that is looking for operational solutions and is in charge. For the day before yesterday, I was happy to read one of the news published on STA, the address of the message was: Bratuškova and Židan with the mayors found a solution for 11 environmental projects. I have to say that in a few hours I was strange, I did not know the content, but when I got the conclusions of the government and the reaction of the mayors, those mayors who are also implementing these projects, which was a very negative and critical response, I saw that some of these projects for my terms are somewhat questionable. Whether these conclusions can be modified in any way in an operational way, I do not know at this point because I also do not have all the materials. However, the Ministry of Finance must be involved in any way. I agree that the Ministry of Finance is likely to be involved in these decisions, but the Ministry of Finance will continue its work by giving the consent, which I have said the last time on a committee that will give the thirst on, I do not know what additional duties should the municipality start carrying out projects with its own resources. There's a whole bunch of questions opening up here. I was surprised and then disappointed to evenings that all those who had worked together this afternoon were either in the afternoon or in the evening a little different opinion. And I don't know the contents of the talks in the morning, and even at the press conference, there was a common picture of what was going on there, what was the deal, and I don't know. If the agreements were such that it would be possible to implement these projects with any other conclusions, and in 2012 the government found that at least, what is necessary, there are many other projects, which are probably not yet ready to do so, it will have to provide its place in the next financial perspective 2014 and 2020. Surely there are still a number of such projects, and it is in the municipalities that these projects are extremely quick to prepare for the extent to which the municipalities are in charge. I stress once again that I will be pleased with any legal solution through an agreement between the government and the municipalities of project promoters and other municipalities. I think that less words in this Chamber will be in the future, and more when there will be operational work on the ground and in the agreement between the government and the municipalities, it will be better for citizens and citizens and all those who in this case need and deserve this water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Now we have quite a few cancellations from the debate. Mr Mirko Brulc will be next, followed by Mr Franz Pukšič, then Matjaž Han, Zvonko Černač and Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Yes, many times, Comrade Presecnik, I agree with you, and today also with everything you have to say. What you said at the end and fewer words of more operational work should be attributed to further work. Today we have one debate circle that will last for eight hours. We don't have anything to change, because the Prime Minister's opening act has told us everything. If we don't believe him, then that's another problem. If we have not heard it, we need to listen to the matter, or we all have ears, only what is in the middle of our ears, but it is a question. He said how things are going, he said that projects that will go into realisation are named, not just eleven, but a name. That the costs that are eligible will be paid and that we obviously also have some projects that are in stock today, and thank God they are, because the new perspective is here. On 1 January, we cannot start projects, I don't know, with a second bureaucracy, but in the first quarter, as was said, these projects will go into effect. Guarantee the entire team that was here today in the National Assembly and were praised. I commend them, too. The cleaning plant, a very hot thing in Goriškem, went into investment, the sewers of Nova Gorica, Vrtojba, Miren and so on, so that we can get rid of this cross-border problem that the Italians have been reading to us for decades. The team that's here today is responsible for this. But not only will I praise this government. When Janez Janša was on the government with his team, I was the mayor at the time, we got 24 million for plumbing across the mountain, as we say, Banjšice and so on, an extremely demanding project, a difficult terrain and so on. So, everyone has something good, something bad. What is good must be commended, but what is bad must be changed. For the fifth time now, we have been actively engaged in this same problem solely because some mayors, as has been said, have prepared projects that have exceeded all the expected money, I will not talk about numbers because they have been mentioned here several times today, and some selection has to be made. We also have mayors who know exactly that their own participation must be so much, and they can't guarantee that. And today we are waiting for the government to take on some responsibility or ministry, and instead of doing it, even though the financial structures are not exactly covered for the following year or for the next period as we call it. I was the mayor. I'd be very happy if the government would ever take responsibility for me. Why not? Great. I make up a project, start a rook, and then the government will solve it, as she knows and knows. It can't be like that. The mayors must take full responsibility for the projects, for the investments and for their part also for the responsibility, and for their part for the ministry and others. It is easy to be in opposition and constantly repeat certain things, because then people start to believe it. And you all know that. It is very easy to say that the Ministry could take funds within the Ministry for these projects and save them. And then we'd hit the other side, and you'd always tell us how poor farmers are, how suffering they are, and in the hills, and the bait with one cow barely lives and so on. If we take away the subsidy and give it to these 11 projects, World War II would be with us. This cannot be done by the Ministry and there is no need to take it from an integrated budget. However, if some 10 million or 100 million of these were further indebted to the State, it would again be a tie. So there is no other solution than that what the funds in this perspective are for is that they are doing something in stock, if they are going to dig for water supply, I am simplifying the matter, November, December, will only be paying in March, April, then we will be in a new perspective and therefore there must be a guarantee that then these mayors and these projects will not remain dry. And that's what the Minister here today has publicly confirmed, and I don't think that's gonna be a problem. Which of the Members will not support the projects we are talking about today? They're all needed. And to make it clear that I will say why your government has not solved all the problems of water supply for the inhabitants, because we cannot talk like that – ours, yours, us, you. If this government could solve all the problems in this country, then we don't need Parliament or European funds or anything else, we would live in prosperity, which is an illusion. Without the obvious, we can solve things in a very concrete way and do things in a way that will truly benefit the inhabitants. In the local community, too, you have to explain many times to the countries, this year it will be in the budget, next year it will be in the budget, and in five years it will be your turn. But that's when it's time. I know the problems with water supply, the costs of transporting drinking water to the ground, the problems of drought and the like. At the same time, for the next meeting, the Agriculture Committee has prepared a proposal for a law where the water fund will be allocated to Savoy power plants. In some part, yes, but we can put everything there, and it won't be enough – where is the water supply, where are the storms, so I don't list it, because we all know it very well? Therefore, there is an urgent need for sobriety. We can say that today was a debate circle to talk to. At least I am pleased that we are talking decently, that we do not have any other historical facts that we are already accustomed to at other meetings, and that the ministry does what the Minister has promised here today, as promised by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Mayors. And let's be aware, I cannot solve the water supply problem of a place because I have no idea. I have no idea what kind of investment it is, what kind of problems it is, and so on. We can't solve this here in Parliament, it's either the mayor's relationship or the investor, whatever – and the ministry's representatives. These things, where they run, where these deals are, they're saved. The Ministry needs to say very concretely, this project is mature and questionable projects must either be from the programme or be fixed in such a way as to be feasible. If I recall, the cleaning plant in the flood or marsh area, this project was signed by Minister Žagar, if we know there can't be a cleaning plant there, then let's stop with our heads through the wall. In Nova Gorica, you know that they gave up one extremely demanding project because it was impossible to do so for countless reasons. And let someone else do it so that it will then be for those 11 who are all obviously clean, which is what a special group at the Ministry has already found out that they are going into reality. Not that I'm spending $150 million in my pocket, but that's where it's missing and the projects won't go into effect. I would only stress this once again, the Social Democrats support the solution of water supply for people throughout Slovenia, and it does not matter whether Prekmurje, Pomurje, Styria, Primorska or whatever to resolve this as soon as possible so that we can give up anything else, I do not know now what in the next perspective that every citizen can really have drinking water. However, this is very expensive in Slovenia, it makes sense. The relief is such as it is, the terrain is such as, the difference is to do water in Crassus or in the Alpine world or in Prekmurje. Costs are huge, completely different. I'm not going to say it's the EPP before the elections, but it's a debate circle that we can afford in a buffet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič would now have a word, but he's not in the hall. Next up is Mr. Zvonko Černač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Brulc, unfortunately, doesn't know everything, regardless of how long he's been in this House and how many years he's been mayor, but some of the things he's been talking about don't hold. And it's a good thing to say what's true. It is true that every government should make every effort to benefit from European money as much as possible. Because it's the only liquid investment money, the money that doesn't need to be owed, the money that's available. On 8 February 2013, the second Janševa government negotiated an additional 3 billion 200 for the next financial perspective until 2020. But to date, there is not yet one operational document that will allow this money to be drawn, and we are already in the middle of 2014. At the very least, they could have operational programmes that could draw on these funds as soon as possible, given that they are also a generator of economic growth and economic development. When you speak to some about the fact that there are more actions and fewer words in this House, of course, this is true, but it does not depend on those who warn that this action is too small, and who do not have any other power than to be reminded by words and concrete proposals. In the last half-years of these concrete proposals, that these actions by the current Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek, would be more numerous, but there was no effect. In these projects, which we are talking about today, something needs to be done because projects that are ready to go are all ready, are being talked about, or have been alerted to for more than half a year. When we took over the government in February 2012, we found that, despite the fact that we are already at the end of the 2012 perspective, 2013 – 2013 is the formal conclusion of the perspective that started in 2007 – the use of European money is very poor. Some of the programs were catastrophic. Let's say on environmental, transport infrastructure only 5% at the time. The only way we can draw on this goal to draw on everything that was difficult to negotiate during the first Janšev government in 2006 was by recruiting additional projects and redistributing funds where it was possible to ensure the rapid implementation of new additional projects. With this objective, these 11 projects that we are discussing today were also placed in September 2012 in the so-called overcommitment, as well as the provided scheme, how and how these projects should be financed. It is true that, in the meantime, there has been an acceleration in some projects which were not assessed at the time for this acceleration to take place, but this acceleration is not so great, and this is also noted by the Government in its opinion adopted two days ago to prevent the issuance of decisions for these 11 projects, which should have happened in September last year, but did not. We, with arguments on the Committee and also on the Committees before this, have said what should be done to avoid on the one hand jeopardising the implementation of these projects, which are ready to continue, and on the other hand to allow the completion of those projects that have received some acceleration and will be able to come to an end in this perspective. The joint assessment was also with representatives of the municipalities, in particular the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, that it is not only possible to do so, but that it is rational and economical to do so. There is no danger that these funds will not be sufficient. In theory, we can still provide the missing part of the state budget, as said by colleague Vizjak, but this will not be necessary because we are at the crossroads of an old and new perspective, and we know that for such projects as these 11 projects, funds are also allocated to cohesion for the next financial perspective. It is incomprehensible and illogical that the government, the Minister of the Jews, is literally playing with the EUR 230 million available and that it is played primarily with pure drinking water. These projects provide clean drinking water to a third of the population in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, 600,000 inhabitants. We know that clean drinking water will be more important to future strategic raw materials than oil. We know that Slovenia is rich with this natural wealth and it is right not only to protect it, but also to enable it to be consumed by people who are clean and unspoiled. These projects will not be possible without this money. However, they must be carried out, and they must be carried out. What was adopted two days ago in the government was one major manipulation with the public, with the mayors, and also an irresponsible act. The conclusions adopted before yesterday are unrealistic. Say, if you, the mayors do what you do, you don't need any decisions from the governing body, no decisions on how you have cohesion resources available, we'll give you all the costs from 1 when these projects get a new perspective, this money will be provided later, all the costs from 1 will be eligible. 1. 2014 onwards, for these 230 million, you will find yourself, as you know and know. And at the very least, of course, all of you, if you want to do this, will have to go get credit, get the Ministry of Finance's consent and so on. This is a game, toying with people, with the public, irresponsible behavior that even a government that's resigned should not and should not afford. To this end, it was also found that the same day and a day later on the Committee on the Economy that these conclusions do not mean that they do not solve the situation as was publicly stated by Alenka Bratušek and Minister of the Jews, but in some way delay this problem further, put it on the hands of the mayors if you do not do so, something that is at the border of illegality and which is not provided for, and you will be responsible for it. That's not how you do it. And our intention was to do what we proposed in a decision that most of the previous ruling coalition would have adopted yesterday if it did not have a date for this to happen by 30 June when we raised this issue, on 29 April at an extraordinary meeting. Interesting. Yesterday we proposed an additional decision, where it was said that the government should issue decisions to these beneficiaries, because this is the basis for them to then sign contracts and benefit from funds in such a way that these projects can be implemented using money from the present and the next financial perspective. And you didn't just accept it because it was written up until 30. 6. It is said that we would adopt a declaratory decision to put the problem under the carpet again. All of these received a notice in early April from a service run by Mrs Andrea Kert that these applications were rejected and that they should count that there will be nothing in this perspective that they will have to re-register all these projects in the new perspective. And that's a fact. And that hasn't been canceled until today. These conclusions of the government say the same thing. It will have to be re-registered, the whole procedure will have to go on again, despite the fact that all of these selected operators have obtained legal building permits, signed services and so on. When I, myself, was the Minister responsible for transport and energy, and when I realized that there would be no projects originally planned for transport in this financial perspective, I had allocated EUR 100 million to the energy field. At that time, it was good that the two areas were in the same ministry, because if this did not happen, probably in addition to these 100 million other funds, which I now estimate will remain mainly in the area of the ROPI's OP, would be set aside. Thus, more than 200 kindergartens, primary schools, health homes and other public facilities are restored and repaired from Lendava to Pirana. Here, in this case, the funds are and at the end of 2015 they will remain, and on the one hand projects that are ready to be implemented will not be implemented. That's bad, and we're not gonna stop. We expect this government to address this issue again and adopt a decision that will enable the operational implementation of these projects to be financed from the current and subsequent financial perspectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The next one would have the word, Mr Hršak, he's not in the hall. Jani Möderndorfer, I don't see him either. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Several times today, it has been said that we are having a meeting again because we are in a pre-election period because the elections are approaching and that is why we are proposing such meetings and such topics in the SDS. It must be said that we have already proposed a meeting on the issue of drawing on cohesion funds several times in this mandate; we have not proposed it because the elections are ahead; we have had more meetings on this subject. We warn you of problems, but the problem is that things don't move from a dead point. The minister promises something every time, and then it's none of that. Let us also adopt conclusions that are binding, which would require a certain activity from the Minister, and we meet again with the same questions, the mayors are again calling on us not to see things happen. Someone even said that if we give the government one hand, we'll set a date by which to do something that's not legal. This, of course, is not true; in the National Assembly, we take many conclusions that we commit, propose, encourage the Government to do anything, and we limit it in time, because otherwise things can stretch out indefinitely or nothing can happen. Some of you have also talked about the need to provide additional funds if these 11 projects are to be included. A month ago, the Prime Minister here explained that she had a billion-and-a-half money left by the next government. If there's money, what's the problem that we don't use to speed up the economy, so that at least some of the investments that the mayors care about are going to run? Brultz said we're not here to build plumbing and so on. We really did not, but the mayors did, so they also prepared projects because they are committed to doing everything they need for their citizens. And water supply is certainly one of the priorities of each congregation. Some would even write it as a constitutional right to the Constitution, but when you have to vote in favour of the allocation of funds, your votes are gone. The mayors did so, and the mayors communicated in the first phase and met with the Ministry, with representatives of the Ministry in order to arrange and arrange things there. When they failed to do so, they turned to us. And it is right for Members to react. In the meantime, we have been monitoring very poor pumping, very poor percentages, in our parliamentary group. You tell us it doesn't matter, this government, it rules. It's very important how governments work. And if you look at the results, you will also see which government has worked very hard and done a lot to draw funds. Then where did it get stuck again? We are now transferring our job to the Prime Minister, who is also the Minister of Health, and there are a lot of things not signed at the Health Ministry because she does not. How, then, can she expect to handle other matters? The best thing is that everything in one person, we don't even need ministries. In the material that the Government sent us, you wrote that the service is monitoring and eliminating unnecessary obstacles and problems as a matter of priority. We estimate that pumping doesn't move anywhere. So I want to know what you're monitoring and what unnecessary obstacles you're removing, what you've already solved at this time. Then you write down that you are conducting activities to promote EU funds absorption, remedy backlogs, simplify administrative procedures. I'd like to know how many administrative procedures you've completed and which. As far as I know, they're always new and extra. Then you say you're monitoring the actions. The service is responsible for implementation, not monitoring measures. Then you write: "In the past, Slovenia has met with the greatest difficulties in drawing on EU funds in the field of environmental and transport infrastructure, in the field of implementation of operational programmes, the backlog of consumption dynamics mainly in environmental projects." With the minister who is being forged into the stars, what he will do, almost the mandate holder is already here, and he is completely inactive or exactly in his field for a year and a half, and before that, there was a year of Janša government, but before that Mr. Židan was in the same place – nothing of all, at dead points or nowhere to move by drawing. Look at the trends that have taken place in the time of our government. You also write here: "In the framework of additional activities, a comprehensive analysis of the situation was produced." A full analysis of the situation was made in 2012, prior to the confirmation of the overcommitments. So what we did, we did, or our government. All year 2013, you had half of 2014, and we're talking about the same things as a year and a half ago or a year ago. Despite the April session, where we accepted some commitments, the government promised us what it would do. Not to mention that the data is that even for the next perspective things are not ready. And we'll spend two years again, three years before anything happens. There will be no calls and there will have to be another slightly more active government than yours to speed things up and make some progress. We have again proposed a number of recommendations or conclusions. Everything is rejected or you have not listened to it in coalition parties, although you would still hope that, according to the pre-election period, you probably have a hard heart to vote against measures that will affect several hundred thousand people in Slovenia. But obviously, you have to be against it just because you're against it, just because we're asking because we're warning because we're proposing some things. On the Committee on the Economy, you yourself have found that, with regard to 11 cohesion projects, those decisions adopted by the Government at the 134th letter meeting do not resolve anything. It was found that if, in accordance with these decisions, the notifiers themselves had started without formal approval, without signed contracts and with their own resources, they would have acted even in contravention of the legislation. So that's what you tell the mayors and promise them that if there's money when there is money, they'll get it. We have already had such things in the past, when some projects were promised in 2009-2011, we have already signed a treaty, we have made a decision, and then those projects have failed, even though they have been prepared. No one can live on promises. It is only necessary to issue decisions, it is necessary to write and make some commitments that this will be done so that we do not waste a whole lot of money and time again in the next period, and we will do nothing. As they say, you can't plan money, we see it every day. Once he's out of school, once he's out of transportation, every day there's a new story about how money's being redistributed here and there, tax revenue goes twice, confusion is perfect, just like the Confused government is leaving. But as I said before, the Prime Minister was leaving a month ago, and there's something else that says he has a billion and a half dollars for the next government. Then perhaps it is not a serious problem to make a decision and to devote this money to projects that are vital to several hundred thousand people in this country. Otherwise, ask her where she has the one billion and a half she says she'll leave her next. If we went into these projects, if things were to be implemented and started to be implemented as planned, this would also mean economic growth. Some contracts have already been concluded with contractors, construction permits have been issued. Even the economy is half-dead and even with such impulses when you can help it, you don't want that. Of course, I think it is right that we talk about these things, that it is right to warn that things are not being regulated, that the Minister comes here and recites his or her reading and then disappears again, and I don't know how long we won't see him again, without being responsible for anything without answering the mayors who are calling him and asking what will happen to their projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, on behalf of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u84	So, Madam Vice President, I'm very concerned. I've never seen anything like it, and I've been in this House for the past 14 years. Now Mr. Bosic joined us a few minutes ago. The fact that there is not one member of the coalition in the Chamber, not one member of the coalition, is even worse, not one member of the SDS, is, in fact, one underestimating attitude, not least to this extraordinary meeting and to this problem that we are dealing with today. Today we are dealing with the problem and the efforts of the Slovenian Democratic Party, respected by the Vice-President, I apologize because you are the only one, because you are the only one who is holding the meeting by force of opportunity, and otherwise it is not possible, because the opposition Vice-President, as we all know, is no longer. So the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed this extraordinary meeting, and this subject with one purpose, that 11 important water supply projects across Slovenia, which concern 34 municipalities that concern more than half a million people, should be implemented as soon as possible and give their positive effects as soon as possible. I've been listening all day from the government to the coalition to see if we're going to do this. The government has also accepted some very mediocre conclusions. I think that this kind of behaviour is unresponsibly said, not only to us here, to the proponents, but especially to the content that we are dealing with. From this I can conclude that none of the competent authorities are serious about these projects, and is also running from any controversy about these projects. So far, we have only heard why this cannot be done, despite the efforts we have been looking for by members of the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party, who have been looking for possible solutions, even though we have not been called upon to do so, for possible solutions to this problem, how these projects could be approved and financed. Such ignorance of colleagues from coalition parties is very humiliating to me, but I think it is humiliating to this House as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u85	Thank you very much. However, I do not wish to be argumentative with you, but my fellow Members can also follow this meeting from elsewhere, not only in the Chamber. Even when it happened on your side that there were empty seats. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not here by chance, but I'm here on my official duty, and I also want to be here when I'm not sitting here and presiding over the National Assembly. The last of the panellists is Mr Jože Tanko, if he wishes to speak. Here you go, Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. The government is also very closely following this meeting. It remained unused almost all the time she had discussed the answers to Members. Here before us were ten or eleven experts, government representatives for cohesion policy. First, I would touch on the decision or agreement that the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment have concluded or promised to representatives of municipalities or mayors. Just a question – why did the Government not propose this decision last year when these matters were opened in the same way? What is the reason why the government came with this solution just before the parliamentary elections were held in the middle of one and a half years, when the government did not find any possible solution for the realisation or for the launching of these projects. What is the reason, Madam Secretary of State, that you just invented this solution? Those who know the budget know that if an item is not in the budget, it is not possible to pay it back with a new budget. All those mayors you promised them to pay for the projects in that way, you painted them, in your own words. What you promised them is simply not possible. With the 2015 budget, it is not possible to pay its own contribution to the 2014 projects. Let me just remind you, as soon as the government of Alenka Bratušek came together, a month or two after that in the National Assembly we had a budget rebalancing for 2013 and 2014. And there was a clear emphasis when the Prime Minister was for this speaker, that you had addressed all the mistakes of the government of Janez Janša, the government that was before you, and that you had adopted such solutions that would allow the budget to be implemented. So, what did you take? The Prime Minister is being sold as the largest expert on the state budget in this National Assembly and in this composition of the Government. She was ten years old or I don't know how old the Director of the Budget. And a mistake like that happens to you. It's not the only mistake. It's not the only mistake. These errors in this budget, when absolutely nothing can be done, are still very large. It is not possible to provide its own participation or subsidies to the Government for student and student transport without obtaining money for any investment, not in health or elsewhere. It is not possible to ensure its own participation in cohesion projects and so on. In short, nothing can be done – except covering a bank hole. This is the only project that works in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm asking if he wants the word government at the end. He doesn't want to. Even on behalf of the proposer, Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u88	Respectable how European funds are drawn up in the Republic of Slovenia is witnessed by numbers. And in fact, we can be united that always, towards the end of the financial perspective, there are only some numbers that show that we will bring together, that we will only draw on most of the appropriations. So in environmental infrastructure we don't know today, I don't think there's a hero here who I would certainly hope to say that we will also be fully implementing these approved projects for which contracts are signed and which are being built within the given framework. I can warn you, for example, about one example from the environment from which I come from an already approved project when working on one plumbing, because they found that inadequate pipes are being installed. What happens to this project next, I don't know. But it's a complication and the current construction site, at least as far as the installation of these pipes is concerned, stands. How many buildings there are where something can break down, even when we are talking about contractors or circumstances that we do not even have an impact on today. It would be a pity to see such complications that the euro of European money alone would go to waste. That is why, already in the mandate of the government of Janez Janša, we went to these so-called overexpenditures, to these overcommittees, and it is a big question whether they went to a sufficient extent. But now that we have started with the new financial perspective 2014-2020, it is more than clear that we have some priority in this country. I believe that water supply and the provision of these eleven projects, which are now standing and waiting despite the signed implementation contracts, is a priority. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that, technically, in the context of the negotiations on the new operational programme and the stage of the implementation of projects from the old financial perspective, to find a modus vivendi solution for these 11 environmental projects as well. Once again, these 11 environmental projects are based on the water supply of forty municipalities or over half a million Slovenian people. I think this solution could be sought if it were only will. To simply say that we have already exceeded our spending rights, these projects cannot, for the new financial perspective, yet we do not have the basic strategic documents adopted, and we must not burden it with both end and end. And worse still, ordering municipalities or telling them to start their own projects with their money is, of course, unresponsible, because we all know that the amount of funding needed for these projects goes far beyond the potential of municipal budgets and funding at local level, as we like to impose a number of other obligations on this local level. Worse still, even in the reform programme, the government is predicting that funds will be cut to the municipalities through cuts for appropriate consumption. It's written, I can even quote you a page. In fact, I am sorry that we have warned the government several times about this problem. Last time in the April session. At that time, certain promises were made that foretold that something could move. We have found again today at the hearing that nothing has moved and that the Government has adopted in some panic two days ago some ridiculous, indeed, conclusions that otherwise say that these eleven water projects are priority, not priority, will be prioritized in the next financial perspective. And that's all. And she instructed the congregations to start implementing them. We are convinced that this is too little, that something will really happen in nature. I doubt that any of these 34 municipalities will seriously start to implement this project on the basis of these government conclusions, because no one will dare to take responsibility for the implementation of this project despite a completely unclosed financial structure. I wonder who will take responsibility from the current authority for not wanting to find a solution today or in these days we do not want to find a solution and will [[Incomprehensible]] What a euro of European money. Who will be responsible if this actually happens? They can get in the way. This could happen, and we'll be very sorry that we don't have any projects to stand by. The easiest thing to do is, of course, deal with a number of reasons why something can't be done, but what we would expect from the government is first of all operational solutions, how something can be done and how these 11 projects can be brought to life, because they are necessary and important. And I haven't heard from any of you today that these projects wouldn't be important and necessary. I just heard there's no money to make. We believe, however, that if the money is not sufficient in the future financial perspective or the one currently being negotiated, spending rights for these purposes should be increased at the expense of some other spending rights in some other area for these environmental projects. What is better than having immediate absorption in this work, to immediately use European resources in this work and thus provide people with drinking water 5 years earlier than 5 years later. Not to mention the synergies that this also has on the construction sector, the Slovenian economy and the recovery of this. We are sad to note that most or such a disintegrated coalition did not support the recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which went all the way towards operationalisation or to find a solution for these 11 projects as soon as possible and to issue co-financing decisions so that they can also work in nature. The poor traveller, respected, is that we have so many relatively united in Parliament that these are important projects and that, in fact, despite this merger, there is little or virtually nothing to do with these projects. This concern also concerns the relatively passiveness of the debaters at this point, in particular by the disintegrated coalition, and is probably also pishmeuhar to this issue, which is tanning a really good part of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u89	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted a word with you also received it. Of course, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure, we can make time allocations. You can only log in once. However, I call on both the proposer and the Government to sign up by raising their hands so that I can give you my word in distribution. Please report everyone you want to discuss. We have five other panellists registered. Everyone's got five minutes. Mr Vizjak is also the last to be reported on behalf of the proposer. Here's your word, Mr Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The use of European funds does not take place under this government in any way, as it should be. Although this case has been a difficult one ever before, it is necessary to know that at the moment Slovenia is faced with a situation such as this, these are the only real investment assets that can be acquired. It is therefore quite amazing that the State does not carry out its task, which it would then have to do in order for the local communities and all the others who are entitled to these funds to come to their projects without delay. It then happens that municipalities rent credits, even in Gorenjska is so at the moment, in Kranj, where, by the way, the Prime Minister is also the prime minister, that the tragedy is complete, and these municipalities are hiring credits to start carrying out works that should be paid from cohesion funds. But it's not from anywhere, because the country doesn't do its job. And things are going to stop and they're going to stop and then the question will be, why Slovenia is not going anywhere anymore. Such a question is justified. Such a question is more than justifiable and should be asked by everyone. Two governments, Borut Pahor's government and, of course, the current government of Alenka Bratušek, have managed to trust Slovenia to the point that the debt from 2008 when it was still worth 7 billion, but together with the former inherited Yugoslav debt, has now practically approached EUR 30 billion. 30 billion euros. In doing so, there is no money available for the part that the state should contribute to the realization of projects for which it is possible to obtain European funds. It's an incomprehensible thing. Do you know what 30 billion euros is? This is enough to say that the government is a transitional left, because, of course, both governments are transitional left-wing governments, each Slovenian four-member family burned down one apartment that this family will have to pay, today it costs 57,000 euros, somewhere like that money. And this family will have to pay for it, but they will never live in it. Or if you want every baby, every child, every adult, this government started and burned one car, a good car, a new middle-class car, worth 15,000 euros to be paid. But there will never be people driving in it. And another such government will not survive this country. It must therefore be made very clear that it does not matter whether in the next elections, which will be held at any time, people will elect Alenka Bratušek, Mira Cerar, or Mr Soltes, or SD, or DeSUS, or any of those who were present in these governments of the transitional left, because in any case they will receive the same: a new debt. And when this debt is somewhere between 30 and 50 billion, and believe me, it will be there, because other than the debts of this government they don't know, then the country in bankruptcy and Slovenia as a sovereign state will no longer be. Today, sovereignty is defended by effective entrepreneurship, with an efficient economy. And they need their framework to do so. The only framework when it comes to building infrastructure is the funds from the European funds that the current government, when it is in a frenzy of debt, simply cannot be obtained. And Slovenia is slipping from disaster to disaster. The governments of the transition left, if you put them in order, are literally the embodiment of Murphy's law, that the natural development of things is from bad to worse. And once again, I say absolutely no matter, and people will once again be able to understand whether they will elect Alenka Bratušek, or SD, or Cerarje, or Soltes, they will get the same: new debts and the complete breakdown of the Slovenian economy. It is only necessary to make Slovenia comparable to Europe in order to be able to use European funds. That's first and foremost. And there's no reason not to fear, he doesn't know about apathy. All we have to do is go to the polls and vote for those who were successful. And only one government received this recognition from the European Union, which was the last government of Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. I'm sorry, Joz Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u92	Thank you so much for [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u93	Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian, all right.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u94	Okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u95	Jojo Tanko's up. But it's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u96	Good. Okay. Do I have a word or don't I have one?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u97	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u98	Okay, thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have previously stressed the importance of using European funds on one side and, on the other hand, the importance of water as a good that belongs to everyone or to whom we are all entitled. The National Assembly is the one who gives individual directions. I say that on two committees, notably the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, we have adopted good decisions months ago, two and one, and the Government is, of course, the one responsible for finding operational solutions, in cooperation with the mayors of those municipalities in which these projects are being implemented. I said earlier that I was extremely pleased to hear from the STA that on Tuesday, Brother and Jew, in a message, they found a solution with the mayors. However, I was a little less pleased after reading some of the Government's conclusions, which at least at first sight are not entirely feasible from the professional point of view. It is my expectation that the Government will find such operational solutions in the operational implementation of these projects, that all this implementation of these projects will also be legal and that we will not force individual mayors, after all, governments or ministers into illegal acts, so that all the actions that will also be legal. I also think that there is a need for such a debate as some government control in the implementation of these projects, which are still important to us. And once again, European money is not some money from some English, French or any other, it is our money that we send monthly to Brussels to say domestically. They'd be stupid if we didn't pump that money back. However, I am pleased that we have been joined by a representative of the proposer to attend the meeting, because he had earlier become engrossed in the fact that I went out to sort things out. I hope you insist on the end of the line now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Projects financed or co-financed by the European Union are extremely favourable for any country. For these cohesion projects, for example, the country's commitment is 15% of its own participation; all the rest are EU resources. If the state of Slovenia does not find 15% of its own resources for these projects, about EUR 40 million, to then implement projects worth EUR 240 million, something is seriously wrong. Something is very wrong because in two years this country would only receive a 50% premium on its own participation. If she gave 40 million of her own VAT participation, which is 22%, she would get out an additional 20 million euros, i.e. 60 million euros. Without taking into account the sources for the pension fund, for the health allowance, without taking into account what would have been accumulated in the income. And last but not least, the country and people would be left with a project they urgently need. Such projects in this country are simply not available, such as this one, so favourable, but the government does not move at all in this case. The approach you've taken is kind of perverse. On the one hand, the Government reduces funds for municipalities, the real means of appropriate spending or principals or whatever you pack, on the other hand, the Government gives additional burdens and now has addressed the municipalities involved in these projects in order to invest and invest in these projects. This I think is mainly because more or less of all municipalities do not have cash own resources, but they must be in debt and, after some inertia, they will have to come back to the Ministry of Finance and to Minister Chufer, that is, to the one who does not even guarantee the country's own participation in these projects. This is the circle, the endless circle of paint, deception and destruction of local communities and European projects. I think that this approach, when you disable municipalities from their efforts in these projects, because these are line projects, where there is simply a lot of consensus that you can put the project in a place where the state, the Government, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Environment, says Minister Chufer and Židan play with the state of Slovenia in this way. It may be possible to extend a permit for a certain year, and then the agreement will fall, everything will fall, and the exercise will have to be repeated. And it will take two years, three years, for these things to be restored and we will be ready at the end of this new perspective, to come again a government like this, who can't even turn around or organize or work in some way, I will say, a systematic and targeted way. It's all just flying around. In fact, the problem is that, at the end of the day, under the pressure of these public debates in the National Assembly, the government invents a solution that is not a solution that is not a systemic solution that has no basis in any act it has adopted, but has a basis only in some statement by the Prime Minister and the Minister, and is not based on any legal basis. But to afford it to two such important officials in this country just to pass the time to vote, just to get something out and nothing will happen in the end, I think it's an act that deserves all the criticism. To work in this way or to manage the country in this way, to disable and paint the local community in this way, is a problem. It was in these cohesion projects that this regional structure of the country was shown to be missing. If these funds were allocated to the landscape system, people would already know what is appropriate for them, and they would do so in time. That's how state bureaucrats beat their own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u102	Unfortunately, today's session has shown again all this anger and anger, which has been rumbling all day on this left side of me, mainly because they are in fact angry because they have failed this maneuver that they have actually cooked on their own. Partly directly, and partly indirectly, within his government, his coalition partners. Yesterday or the day before, when the committee began, I listened to the same request — that government should simply write and issue decisions or decisions and the matter will be resolved. As if we had not learned anything from 2007 and all the way back to 2012, when the original sin was committed, and in fact, decisions or decisions were made on the current tape to the like mayors, especially their mayors, who were already aware that they would not be carried out. More. Just because they knew that they would not be carried out as they were set up, because there was neither financial coverage nor anything else, everything was still in the air, the decisions were also issued so that we cannot actually act today from the point of view of the State. However, because speaking flatly and on average without facts is a little incomprehensible, especially for those who do not really know this matter, and I must say that all those who are ignorant and have listened to today's debate really only know that it is European funds, all that has been talked about here, from the decisions, the cohesion funds themselves, they really do not understand anything. But that's why I'm going to try to explain plastically what the original sin is. From 2007 to 2012, virtually all the money was spent or something was distributed that could never really be exhausted later because it was never finished. When Janša's government found this, she did it in a very wise way, probably very precisely in the direction of actively starting to draw on these funds and therefore opened up an additional bag in 2012 and allocated an additional €182 million, thinking that she would start to draw on European funds in a good and quality manner. Later, 31 million additional spending rights were further allocated to individual projects. A total of EUR 218 million was allocated from the environment and transport infrastructure itself. It's all come together so far that we've actually gone beyond all the funds, and this call has turned out to be these unfortunate eleven projects, which go into just the extra funds, we're talking about about about about 236 million, and of course there's a problem who's actually going to get this money. Now the Members and Members who have requested this extraordinary meeting are really convincing us that it would be wise to do once again what they have already done in their government to issue decisions without coverage. Something in advance that's not even gonna happen. Of course, this government never wanted to agree to it. That this was all together one election pamphlet, you could also see from the elegant call we saw from the two debaters before me, when there was actually no more talk about cohesion funds, but only about who should be led in this country on 13 July. This is this meeting, which is actually meant to do so. I must say and regret the instigators, or even the proponents, who requested this extraordinary meeting to be convened so that they misused this meeting in their well-known manner. On several occasions, I even noticed individuals who were ministers in the government smiling at their colleagues when they knew damn well that they were telling facts that they would never do if they were active in the government again. Unlawful things would probably no longer be signed or even proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u104	This meeting was convened by you with eleven points, we added only one, so much about this meeting, Mr Möderndorfer. But it is nice that you, I believe, after a very difficult, hard and time-consuming schedule, took five minutes of time and arrived at the conclusion of this debate to share, that you said some things that did not hold up and would be correct at least to the public and to those rare voters who are still accompanying you and who might still elect you to speak from the arguments and from the facts and from what has been said here today. If anyone was running an electoral populism two days ago, along with Minister of the Jews, President of the Government, Alenka Bratušek, when she went to the cameras and said that the problem was solved, they can continue to provide what needs to be ensured. While this statement was even more difficult and unseemly because she knew that it was not true. And that's also what the Minister of the Jews knew, that what he was saying was not true. Had she been misled, it would have been possible to forgive them and, in the situation as it is being held, it is not possible to do so either. Today it is quite clear, which has been clear for some time now to those who have been monitoring the functioning of this government, that these projects are unfortunately buried. Today the red light is completely pressed for them, unless the composition of the new government team takes place quickly after the elections and will, I am sure, solve this problem within two weeks. Before that, she'll save him in one day. Because it takes so much to get rid of these projects to get the green light and to move on. But we're talking about water projects. Among them is our, a solid project, a fixed water supply that provides drinking water for the entire beer valley, which means a potential strategic reserve for the water supply of the coast, the whole coast. Nor will this be done, as will not be done by all other projects in an area covering 600,000 inhabitants. This is the responsibility of the government, Minister Dejan Židan first, Alenka Bratušek, Prime Minister in resignation, second and all other members of the ministerial team. The responsibility for not having clean drinking water and the right to drink in the Republic of Slovenia in the third millennium. Some of them were on the Constitutional Commission days ago, where the initiative of Mr Golubović to register this right to remain public goods in the Constitution, by the way, is already discussed in the Constitution, but some think that it is not, but you want to further consolidate it, nothing wrong with it. If you have to write twice, if some people don't understand once, it's okay. But what am I trying to say? Those who were very loud on the Constitutional Commission a few days ago and who spoke about how to ensure to people that water is a public good, that it remains a public good, that it must not be privatized, that it must remain in public ownership and that it must remain clean, undeniable, that most of them today have not been heard in this Chamber, nor with a word – nor does the proposer of this initiative. It is not enough to just talk and to make a declaration. We've heard this for a year from this government. Just statements about how well we're doing, how the economy is flourishing, how things are going. We owe 9 billion, we don't even know why, to cover bank-tacuna work, but there was no concrete shift in those things that were already on the table that had already been negotiated. We should just put things on an operational footing and there would be no problem. I have a message for one of these projects right here in my e-mail that's got the applicants 9. 8th Last year – watch out, 9.8th Last year! — addressed the Ministry of Economy at the time with a view to the approval of the project. And at the time, the minister was still his current colleague, Stepišnik, and he was trying to do something. His latest letters come out there sometime in November. But after the new year, when this authority came directly into the interference of Alenka Bratušek, nothing happened until April, when the first red light was turned on to stop these projects on the basis of this public exposure to the problem. When all these notifiers have been notified that there is no money and that they will be able to apply for the next financial perspective 2014-2020. And today, yesterday and before yesterday, and before the extraordinary meeting on 29 April, and before that, we have shown you with the documents that these projects could continue, that there is no risk of providing financial resources, because we are at the intersection of one and the other perspective. At this point, it would be enough to get the green light to go forward, because one year has already been late due to this bureaucratic inactivity and will not be implemented by the end of 2015, but at best two years later. This means that in most cases they will draw on future financial perspectives, which are available and available. But this government doesn't want to do it, obviously, without knowing it, but it doesn't want to do it operationally. 600,000 people in this country will be deprived, and that right you want to add to the constitution, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u105	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer as the last mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u106	Thank you very much. See, Slovenia has some experience in drawing on European funds. We had one short financial perspective 2002-2004, there were pre-accession funds, then we had a financial perspective 2004-2007, 2007-2013 was a financial perspective and now 2014-2020. These are the financial perspectives where, I hope, we have learned at least something about drawing on European funds. And one of the fundamental lessons is that strategic documents allowing to be pumped should be timely, structure, absorption, organisational structures, suitable to draw as effectively as possible, without bureaucratic complications and obstacles. The government of Janez Janša, two governments were very important in deciding how much Slovenia would receive for the two longest or relatively long financial perspectives. It is said that the financial perspective 2007-2013 was negotiated in 2007, the financial perspective 2014-2020 in 2012. After all these perspectives, Slovenia received a significant chunk of billions. It is true, in fact, our billions, because we are very important in contributing to the Brussels treasury so that we can draw on these funds for certain purposes. It saddens me that we are in 2014, according to several financial perspectives, without all the strategic documents to draw funds from the current financial perspective. Here I have read some countries, and I will repeat them, these are Denmark, Germany, Greece, Poland, which have already adopted part of these strategic documents. I think we're late again. If we were not late, I think that this problem of 11 environmental projects could be relatively easy to solve today. They would be placed in a financial perspective, they would be placed, it would be burned and decisions could be signed and they would be perfectly legal. Since that is not the case, it is necessary to find some other intermediate solutions in combination with an old and new financial perspective. Here, one of the discussers said earlier that it is impossible to assume obligations literally for something in advance, which he will not at all. With this, Mr Möderndordorfer has made it very clear that there will be no such projects. That's what he said, literally, something in advance that he won't have at all. If it doesn't, it won't. I think it would be correct for the government of Alenka Bratušek to tell these 600,000 people in these 34 congregations, but not to deceive them with the conclusions of the government two days ago, when it promises them, in fact, the opposite of these statements. More. He travels municipalities to start these projects, regardless of the fact that they do not have closed financial structures. What's more than the amount of illegality?Oh, my God! Traveling mayors — if the state cannot have a closed financial structure for these projects, then how should the municipalities have it? From where? And because they don't have that money, they can't even start these projects. What's even worse is that they've started a piranha story in the media, that they've solved the problem, and that the projects are to start digging with buggers today. There could be something on the ground today. But it won't be seen because the mayors didn't swim in the parish either, and they actually know how to start these projects. The respected government, a respected coalition, despite the efforts of the applicants at some extraordinary meetings or at several points to find a vivendi mode, some solution for these 11 environmental projects, which also tang the Ljubljana Field, this part, also tanning many other places in Slovenia, has not happened. In fact, even more, we have now brought the matter so far that you admit for yourself that it will not happen, and that these projects, if ever, will be financed in some future. And for these projects, a lot of municipal money has already been allocated, and for these projects a lot of municipal officials, as well as the ministries of agriculture and the environment, because they have obtained documentation and selected contractors, I think a lot of money has been spent. Too bad and I'm really disappointed that the proponents with the initiative to just start these projects that we are [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u107	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 69th meeting of the assembly, which we will continue by vote in half an hour, which is at 3:40 p.m. See you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u108	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region by emergency procedure. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision about the law? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation following a reduced procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 11 November. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 2. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 35. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision about the law? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. Just a minute. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. Can we decide this decision? We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplementation to the Law on Electronic Business and Electronic Signature, following a short procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the School Diet Act after a reduced procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 11 November. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to Article 7 and to a decision on the amendment of Article 7 of the Social Democrats Group. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that, in second reading, the National Assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 7 of the amended Law and therefore I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. Is that why I'm interrupting? [[…]] We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also informing everyone that the legislative and legal services or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the legislative and legal services or the Government have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would be inconsistent. Can we make a decision about the law? We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 19. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Nature Conservation in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 11. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We move on to Article 40 and decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 40. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 67 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 36. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendment, and I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Before that, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. Can we make a decision about the law? We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 206 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 206, paragraph 5, of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act shall be adopted. Can we make a decision? We're voting. The 69 Members and Members present voted 46 against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the text of an authentic explanation, first of all to decide on the amendment of the Committee on Labour, the family and social affairs and the disabled. Can we decide on the amendment of the committee? We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 34 votes against none. [[The vote was 34.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a text of an authentic interpretation in full. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There were 66 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation is fully accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on the establishment of the Center for the Development of Finance. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Anyone want a word on behalf of the MPs? I guess not. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the proposal of a law on the ratification of the agreement on air transport between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the State of Kuwait. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? I guess not. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. Under point (a), we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and the members of the Council of the Energy Agency. The government has proposed to the National Assembly that it appoint the President and members of the Energy Agency Council for a 6-year term: President Ivano Nedizavec Korada and member of Dr Tomaž Žagar and Mojco Veljkovic. For a three-year term of office, he proposes to be appointed as a member of the Council of Dr. Max Babudr, Aloyzi Zupanac and Mag. Peter Grubelnik. There are no government representatives who could present this proposal. The proposal also addressed the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. Does the President of the Commission want a word? I guess not. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr Jože Tanko, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. Our Group of Members, when we discussed this proposal, proposed that the item should be removed from the agenda, but the coalition did not support this proposal. We are of the opinion that just a few days before the extraordinary elections, it is not hygienic for the government to propose candidates anywhere, not just to the Energy Agency Council, for a term of three or six years. Thus, a few days before the Government loses its mandate, it proposes to appoint members of the authorities for a period longer than the term of office of the next national assembly. That's what we were alerted to at the meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission. Otherwise, we are aware that some things need to be settled, but the authority replaced and replaced by the Government exists, which could continue its work by September or October. And it would be wise for the next government to propose a body that would then work in this area. However, in the way that the government has embarked on this appointment procedure, I would point out that this is not the only procedure in the procedure, but we cannot get rid of the feeling that it is a political action simply in order to make the next government a problem after the elections and will also deal with this problem in one way or another. While these may be good, professional people, the procedure followed by the government’s appointment is not appropriate. If the government already wishes to act in some way in accordance with some of the standards in force, then it would expect the government to first regulate the constitutional norm which is linked to the adoption of the implementing fiscal rule law. That law expired in November, and the government or coalition did nothing to bring this law into force. Eight months have passed, the government has not proposed texts despite some attempts at threats. In this case, however, human resources projects that fall within the post-election period propose solutions for the mandate and a half in the future, and this is certainly not the case. Whatever the way you explain it in the coalition, in the parliamentary groups that support the government, it certainly does not belong to any action that you might approve of, that you might respect, and that you may tell him that the procedure has been carried out in due time. We will oppose this human resources solution of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u110	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u111	That's how it's done. Half an hour ago, we were talking about the fact that the government should do what they shouldn't do, but here we're saying that what they should do shouldn't be done. So, we are now in retreat, withdrawn, dissolved, whatever you want to say, and we have the legal right to do so. I think these men and women are respectable, and we can do this. Let me remind you that a certain government moved the chiefs of administrative units to stock just before it left. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how you do it! That is why it seems right for us to decide here today if we really had the right, if we had to decide on cohesion funds and it was such a requirement, then I think duplicity and the Social Democrats' Group would be happy to support this proposal. I think it's right that we do this and that we don't play the two-faced and other games that we like to play so much. Whether you're up for it or not, do it, and then the thing runs by. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u112	Thank you. There are no other applicants for the word on behalf of the parliamentary groups, so I conclude by presenting the views of the groups. I ask if any of the Members and Members wish to speak. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u113	Thank you very much. It is an agency that we know, which is active, which has changed its status by adopting an energy law, and it is essential in the foundations. Obviously, it was one of the arguments that this happened, particularly that this change allowed the appointment of new people to the new agency. This was clearly the only argument why in the energy law, after we had a public agency that had already been tested, by the way, during our term of office we did not change these people in this public agency, they remained the same as they were before from the Pahor government, but now it was obviously necessary to do so, because when this happened, when this energy law was being considered and adopted, it was not known that the mandate of this government would be so short, and it was the basis for the next two mandates. With this appointment today, at a time when the government is in dispersion, when it is virtually gone, the path for the leadership of the regulatory authority is being routed for at least two subsequent mandates, both by the national assembly and by the government. It's the least that's untasteful. This work that you will do today cannot be compared with the public contests, and I hope that this is the last time that I am talking about the chiefs of the administrative units that have been called upon by the former Minister, Minister Plicanič, and which the minister who took over his business has just completed. Why did Minister Pličanič decide that he had made some calls a little earlier, some even too late, you should ask him. But those procedures were signed at the time of his ministry, they were perfectly legitimate, competitive commissions did their work, which were the same as before, so that these procedures cannot be compared, cannot be compared, and it is also distasteful that you are exposing these things again. However, it was very distasteful that many people were then mirrored, politically chandeliered in this procedure. For you, the Social Democrats, the National List, the Positive Slovenia and everything else that belongs to you, including DeSUS, have gone through this mandate with a marked political chandelier, not a substantive chandelier, not a separation of grains from weeds, bad from good, which should be done and justified, and a number of substitutes that have not done their job well in this mandate, but that you have very politically mirrored people. The products of this political lustration were formally named the only duly declared head of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, is not there yet the chief of the administrative unit with a full mandate; it is not there yet. Not to talk about Grosup, Mr. Speaker, and so on. These were typical political lustrations of people who met all the criteria that the official council had appointed to these positions and that the minister formally only signed the choice after that because he did not assess the appropriateness of their references on a substantive basis. You know that very well, but you're always discussing it, manipulating the public, and of course you're doing much worse things. The Energy Agency is, of course, a very important body, given its powers under the new law, and no matter what legitimacy this regulator will have. If it is appointed at a time when we are today, at the time of the outgoing government, it is likely that the basis for the appointment of this regulatory body is another political, lobbyist, interesting much greater than if we had a stable government with a full mandate and a national assembly with a full mandate. However, this body cannot be revoked. The law is very clear in these procedures and it is clear that these mandates will be full, six years and so on. This is also unworthy of the successors, because it is right that the new legislative and executive authorities have the opportunity to put the most competent people in these areas, and in particular people, who will then somehow follow the guidelines, which will be adopted in a political sense, in the context of the programme to be implemented in the next term. I don't think there's any reason for this appointment not to be postponed. Unfortunately, this part has been delayed, so we have no choice but to vote against it, which, of course, is not the most appropriate for those people who are now publicly exposed here. And it's your responsibility in any case.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u114	Thank you. Can I close the debate? He would also like to discuss Mr Jože Tanko, by really reminding you that it is possible to discuss the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and the members of the Energy Agency Council. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Perhaps all of you will recall the first speech by the President of the Government for this speaker in the National Assembly when she said that she called on all those appointed before the end of the mandate of the other Janša government to resign, otherwise they would be dismissed. Remember, too, that some who were then appointed after the tendering procedures gave up, even though they were chosen, the function they were appointed to. Now the same Prime Minister, when her mandate is concluded, is coming to the National Assembly with long-term human resources proposals. It's a six-year-old life. What can we say when we listened to the first performance by the Prime Minister when she came here with the newly appointed ministers, and she said exactly what I said at the outset. What kind of conduct is it that during one period of work and speaking one way or another, just the opposite of what you require of all others who were before you or who would come after you? There's no concept, there's no rule. The only rule is me – I am the Prime Minister. By the time I take office, such rules will be different when I'm in opposition. I propose that we reject this proposal and that you also refrain from taking into account the performance of the Prime Minister, the first to be here in the National Assembly when it announced the rule on how to act in such cases, and that you do so. This is what you had in the coalition contract, probably the first, the second, this ethics, the correctness of conduct and so on. I suggest that you also sometimes realize that you are listening to what someone is saying and that you are following them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-12-SDZ6-Izredna-69.ana.u116	Thank you. Let me just explain. Today's decision-making of the National Assembly is based on the provisions of the Energy Act, Article 392 provides that the National Assembly shall vote on the proposed candidate for the President or a member of the Council within 30 days of receipt of the Government's proposal. This deadline is 16. In June, and the Energy Act imposes on us a decision on this, so that the National Assembly, despite the fact that it is in the stage of early elections, decides with full powers. Anyone else want a word on this proposal? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and the members of the Energy Agency Council, by which Ivan Nedizavec Korada is appointed President for a term of six years and Dr Tomaž Žagar and Mojca Veljkovic for a term of office. For a period of three years, they are referred to as Dr. Max Babuder, Aloysius Zupanc and Mag. Peter Grubelnik. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 29. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 69th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and good-bye for the next extraordinary session.
