ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 68th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Žgajner, Mrs. Irena Tavčar – she is here, pleased to meet you – Mrs. Ludmila Novak, Mrs. Janja Klasinc, mag. Melita Župevc, Mr. Franz Pukšič, Mr. Franz Bogovic, Mr. Jakob Preseknik – is here, Mr. Samo Bevk, Mr. Bojan Starman from 12 noon onwards, mag. Matthew Tonin, Branko Smodiš from 15:00 on, Mr Srečko Meh, Matjaž Han from 15:00 on and Matvež Frangež from 15:00 on. I also invited representatives of the government to the meeting, and I welcome all those present. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 68th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday 30 May 2014 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. Before we decide, I suggest you check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Can we make a decision? We're voting on the agenda. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 4. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the agenda of the 68th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the contrary, this is a proposal for a recommendation in relation to the implementation of the principle of the rule of law in terms of efficiency, inviolability and inseparability of justice. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 26 MEPs and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me begin by inviting you to follow my contribution to the PowerPoint presentation. And at the outset, let me also try to say one clear thing that I will react to as a proposal whenever anyone makes a reference to it. I clearly want to separate the state of justice as a whole from the Patrio case. Any hint in this direction that we're doing this for Patrie's sake, I'm gonna say no any more. Let me remind you that since 2004, the SDS has consistently been drawing attention to the state of justice, so that this is not a specific topic, there is no new topic related to current events. On the other hand, it must be said that the case of Patria is one of the cases. We have thousands and thousands in Slovenian space, not to say 100,000 cases, when the rule of law is questionable, when the functioning of justice is questionable. These are the fundamental issues of the country and its functioning and therefore this meeting, which we think is absolutely necessary. The constitutional position of justice is quite clear, this is one of the branches of government, that is, the foundation of statehood, the foundation of the state being able to function and exist at all. However, it has to be said that the majority of Slovenian justice in the period since 1990 did not experience any transformation, understood or wanted to understand that we have moved into a plural system that requires a fully independent judiciary and not as it was at the time of communism. I can say calm souls and quite responsibly that our justice today works as it did before 1990. So it protects its interests and protects in particular the interests of the left policy options. More, of course, next time. Let me start with this. "The problem of Slovenian justice is not so much in the influence or attempt to influence it and in the subjugation of other branches of government, the main problem is not the penetration of policy into the judiciary. Slovenian legal order has modern and other democratic and legally regulated countries with comparable mechanisms for ensuring independence from external influences – there are no major problems at formal structural level. The cardinal problem of the Slovenian judiciary is the judiciary itself. And, of course, politics in it – where, as the legacy of the totalitarian period, it was preserved in stricken old-age mental patterns and in collective and corporate thinking. There it keeps itself mentally, valuefully and visually fed and fertilized through institutions of constipation and self-sufficiency – which would have positive effects in a normal country with a democratic tradition and a legal culture – would preserve everything that is and already exists, says internal, mental and independent judiciary. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, what it is is is preserved, all the more so than an intellectual autonomous and independent judiciary. "Free Sagittarius" who think independently and critically, which should be their own judgmental minds, are pushed to the brink, lonely and marked as conflict, health and weird. It is no wonder, therefore, that the "independent" judiciary is headed by a "secret favorite of all judges" – a kind of judiciary, such as the President, who chooses this judiciary alone and autonomously and deserves it. It is no wonder, too, that among the lecturers at the judicial schools selected by the "Autonomous and Independent Judiciary" there are always high political officials, activists without legal education." My memory goes to the fact that Mr Anderlich and Mr Saiovic also visited there, which I do not think they have seen in law schools. In the Slovenian judiciary "the politics really does not have to do anything and it does not need to do so in anything and with nothing to influence the judiciary in order to subjugate it and ensure a long-term impact on it. He's had it before, so to speak. The problem with the Slovenian judiciary is the lack of mental and intellectual independence, the lack of free, open legal and democratic thinking, the problem is the internal autonomy of judges. Thus, a unanimous opinion was that the solution to the crisis was in young, fresh, free-thinking and unladen personnel and in openness to the world and sensitivity to change and new ideas." Ladies and gentlemen, if I were to say this, if I were to write this, and if I were the author of these sentences, who would say everything about Slovenian justice, then I deeply believe that I would have experienced a media coup, the Council of Justice would have met, accepted a statement about illegal political interference in the judiciary, I would probably have said that I was maligning the justice system, and there would have been some prosecutor who would have put me in court in the way of Mr Tsukjati, Brščić, Štuhec and anyone else. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am not the author of this record. The author of this record is Constitutional Judge Jan Zobsek, who lectured at the convention of the American Bar Association last November. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to him, you don't have to listen to me. Let me also remind you once again of the recognized, probably in the world of the most recognized Slovenian law expert Boštjana M. Župančič, a member of the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. He spoke, among other things, of the Vaskrsić case. Let me remind you that this is the man who lost his house for 124 euros across the border. I do not defend that this has been done, but look at what Dr. Zupančič said: "I cannot comment on a concrete case, of course, but as regards the clarifications of these judgments," so these same judgments, "but I would say that it is a disease of Eastern European legal systems, an incredible mechanical legal approach, because judges do not decide by their own common sense in the context of any particular case, but mechanically draw conclusions from some fictitious equation. In short, the judge must primarily have common sense and, of course, legal knowledge." He also talked about law school. I'm sorry, all those who graduated from law school, but look, this is how he said, "With us, the law school is the source of the problem. I know about specific cases of people who were retarded and who did law school because no one asked them how many were two or two. Then they came in the same way through the judicial exam. I don't know what's going on today, but it's been decades, and the result is here. That's why all this crazy stuff happens. This is only possible in Slovenia. This is not primarily the issue of the feminisation of the judiciary, this is the issue of enrolment in the first year of law school. Professor Bucar told me they weren't judges, they were officials. Poor officials, of course, he added. Slovenian justice is a disaster!" All those who praise Slovenian justice will deny Dr. Boštjan M. Župančič. On another occasion, he said that "the Ljubljana Law School doesn't produce graduate lawyers, it's medium and senior legal sisters." So much for that. Slovenian justice has been having problems since 1990. In 2003, to remind you, German judge Norman Doukoff said: "There is no change in the mentality of Slovenian judges, dealing with the protection of their own privileges." What has changed from 2003 to today? My answer is nothing! They're still doing the same thing and the left policy option is protecting them. Something about international institutions. To exclude the European People's Party and its association at global level, so that you do not say that I am imposing any party views on you, you will have to recognise at least the European Commission, which has responded to the 27th. Three, and I think yesterday, too. "Access to an effective and fair justice system is one of the rights in the core of democracy. Predictable, timely enforceable decisions are of exceptional importance," they said. In 2011, justice reforms took over practically even the European Union, and Slovenia did not. They found that there are 6 countries in the European Union, including Slovenia. As far as I can tell, they repeated things yesterday. The European Commission has also found that the Republic of Slovenia has one of the lowest levels of perceived independence of the judiciary. Greece, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia are also behind the Slovenian judiciary. If I link this to justice in Slovenia and if I link the European Commission's report to what the Constitutional Court said, then the conclusion is clear. Left political option, for 24 years you have managed to have an immense influence on Slovenian justice and to manage it infinitely. This is the result of the European Commission and the statements made by the Constitutional Judge. An important information for citizens is that we spend 86.9 euros per capita for the Slovenian justice system and 41 euros on average for Europeans. So, for once more expensive justice, we have ten times worse services and judicial backlogs. Slovenia has 71 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, the EU 45. In short, we have completely ineffective justice and this is just a European view of it. The Assembly of the European People's Party, I will not kill you, but you can read it, is very interesting, as is the international democratic union. In our judiciary, the Constitutional Court also spoke several times, saying that the impartiality of the courts is a fundamental prerequisite for democratic regulation. The Code of Judicial Ethics is also clear. "A judge with a personal example protects the reputation of the judiciary and avoids inappropriate conduct and conduct in all his activities." What is the truth? Let's take a look at some of these truths. Slovenian justice enjoys the lowest level of trust between all EU countries. All those who say we have good justice are in conflict with themselves. He is trusted by 24% of citizens and citizens, but he does not trust 73. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs Potrata, it would be very good for the President to keep you quiet because you are disturbing me. I recall the time in 2009 when this House said that the court's decisions should be respected and not commented, which Mr Sayovic shouted in a loud voice in front of me. Mrs Kresalova, who was sitting behind me in the ministerial chair, said that I should step down as a Member because I had commented on a decision of the Constitutional Court. We have a closed and ineffective system, ladies and gentlemen. A few cases. Very briefly, you all know and know the public. Branko Cat, the man who killed three people 21 years of age in a car accident with Žalec. After so many years and after so many pains to his family, he walked out of prison a month ago because he was forgiven by the Supreme Court for making a mistake, at least in my opinion, by a higher court. The Balkan warrior, everywhere else, has evidence, and in Austria, Italy, Serbia, we forgive the largest criminal group, according to police protection. In the absence of evidence, due to alleged illegal evidence, these are covert investigative measures, the issue of telephones approved by the Ljubljana court and double-checked by the Ljubljana court and said that everything was fine. Then the same court ruled them out as evidence. Vaskrisic, I already told you, he went for 150 euros. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] As you know. [[…]] One of the executioners said a while ago, "Ma'am, you don't call yourself Jankovic." For them it is different, for this ordinary lady than for Jankovic. Judgments for bad loans, ladies and gentlemen. Where's the bad credit judgment? Six billion went to banks or something like that, we don't have any judgment. Therefore, he was forgiven for every fault, Mr Lužar, concerning Orion, that I do not speak of Friends in bankruptcy. Of course, I'm 15 minutes short, so I'll continue with a number of cases later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u3	Thank you. On 30 May 2014, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Justice. Since the Committee did not adopt parts of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u4	A very nice welcome to all on behalf of the Justice Committee, which, at its 38th urgent meeting on 30 May, addressed the proposal for a recommendation on the implementation of the rule of law in terms of efficiency, impartiality and independence of the judiciary. On behalf of the applicants, he submitted a report by Dr Vinko Gorenak, who highlighted the EU's comments in particular; the fact that in March 2013 the European Commission had pointed out that access to an effective and fair justice system is one of the citizens' rights and that in Slovenia this right is not properly regulated in accordance with European standards; the European Commission has therefore specifically stated this among its conclusions and recommendations. He drew attention to German Judge Norman Doukoff, who, at the time of Slovenia's entry into the EU, warned that there were no changes in the mentality of Slovenian judges. The applicant also pointed out resounding cases, such as abuses or inefficiencies of the judiciary in the case of the Balkan Warrior, Cat, Vaskrsić, Orion, Friends in bankruptcy – let us remember that judges and bankruptcy managers were then at the joint parties and that in just a few weeks they paid millions at the announcement of the then Minister to tighten the policy in this area and then HKS Sicura, Videm Krško and also cited two recent concrete cases, this was the case of Vesna Pavlič Pivk, the president of the Ljubljana Court, who served under totalitarian symbols, and the state prosecutor Andrej Ferlinc for an event recorded by the media when he walked with one of the defendants in the Patria case, or specifically with Mr Juret Cekuto, who named him as a lawyer. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Ms Tina Brecelj, the representative of the Supreme Court, Janko Marinko, and the representative of the Attorney General, Hinko Jenull, then considered that these assessments were exaggerated, that the court or judicial system was fully functioning in an increasingly efficient manner, in line with European standards, while also pointing out that it was necessary to respect the Court's inviolability and the fact that it was a special branch of government. With regard to judicial independence, the President of the Council of Justice, Janez Vlaj, said that the judges were given a constitutionally permanent mandate and that all their decisions were constantly subject to horizontal and vertical control. He also stressed that only good, autonomous, and courageous judges can solve the situation in court and present the efforts of the Council of Justice. Later in the debate, members of the coalition considered the meeting unnecessary and, in their view, the material submitted was an expression of lack of confidence in the judiciary. The opposition Members, however, drew attention to the EU's comments and the warnings that the EU has repeatedly given to Slovenia, including by the European Union's highest body, the Commission or the Council of Europe, which has already been presented. They also pointed out the above-mentioned cases, and some others, such as the rental of premises for NPUs, Mures and so on, where the obvious system did not work as it should. From this point of view, in line with the warnings of the Legal Service, which objected to some of the initial recommendations from the perspective of the independence of the judiciary, the relevant amendments have been proposed, but most of them in the Committee, the real coalition majority of the government that has now been withdrawn, these amendments have not been accepted. The majority of the votes were 5:7 and 6:7 respectively. The same was true when voting on all parts of the proposal, which were not adopted by the Committee. From this point of view, it was then found that the consideration of the recommendations on the parent body had been completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to Tina Brecelj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, to give an introductory explanation for the opinion of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u6	Good-bye, everybody! The recommendations of the proposers are inadequate in a certain part and are unnecessary in a certain part. This is based on a reasoned and reasoned opinion of the Government. Also, the competent committee of the National Court of Justice on Friday at its meeting, as we have heard, has therefore not accepted the recommendations proposed. The government cannot support the proposed way of discussing the views of political parties towards Slovenian justice and the specific judicial proceedings that are under way or are legally terminated, as this may constitute an intervention in the independence of the judiciary. It also confirms and further substantiates the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 27 May this year in the case of Baka v Hungary, from which it is clear once again that we must all be committed to protecting the independence of the judiciary, and in particular to preventing attempts at his politicisation. Proposers of the extraordinary session as extremely poor show the state of the judicial backlog. They don't follow their findings. Statistical data on the conduct of the courts are increasingly showing the opposite, as judicial backlogs are steadily decreasing despite almost every year the caseload on the courts is increasing. At the same time, in recent years, the judiciary has also successfully carried out the processes of reorganisation and rationalisation. Compared to 2005, judicial backlogs decreased by 41% in 2013, i.e. at the end of last year. We are also seeing a major decline in the scope of outstanding cases. The comparison in 2005 with 2012 shows a 47% reduction. It is particularly important for citizens to have information on the average duration of the resolution of matters. The data on all matters and for 1998 amount to 14 months, and last year this figure, i.e. this time, decreased to four months. The judicial backlog has substantially reduced to the extent that it is no longer possible to discuss the systemic problem in this context, but, of course, there will always be cases that will be perceived from the point of view of the parties as a long duration of the procedure. But this cannot be avoided either because of the complexity of some cases or because of other circumstances. And such cases exist in all countries, including those with whom we like to compare ourselves. From a systemic point of view, it is particularly important that the situation of judicial backlogs has for the first time reached a level lower than 1995 when the judicial reform was carried out. In the view of the Government, it is also misleading and unnecessary to redefine the graphs and classifications contained in the EU Justice scoreboard document. The purpose of this tool, as we have pointed out many times, and this is recognised and stressed by the European Commission itself, is not simply the classification of individual countries, but merely the promotion, promotion of justice systems and the demonstration of good practices. If the EU's objective was to score a scoreboard, the European Commission should still very much complete the reporting methodology, which it recognises. However, I would like to draw all the attention to the Council's recommendations regarding Slovenia's 2014 National Reform Programme and to the Council's opinion on Slovenia's 2014 stability programme. This is a document just presented by the European Commission, which states, inter alia: "Slovenia has made some progress in improving the quality of the justice system and has reduced the number of outstanding cases. The reform of the conduct of judicial proceedings in the field of economic and civil law has improved the functioning of the judicial system. Recent positive trends in civil and commercial proceedings have been maintained." In the presentation for an extraordinary session, the applicants also point out several times the Eurobarometer surveys, which are intended to show the public's low confidence in Slovenian justice. However, if we compare public confidence in the judiciary years ago, we find that the public was most entrusted to the judiciary when the backlogs were the highest. This information is of concern to the Government, since it is possible to ask whether we really want an effective judiciary. When it comes to the level of confidence in Slovenian justice, it must be stressed that this, by its nature and function, is also a reflection of the relationship of the other two branches of government to the judicial branch of power. The number of cases where publicly exposed persons do not agree with the decisions of the judiciary, often by misappropriation of media attention, goes beyond the limits of admissible criticism. As a result, the attitude of contempt of justice and justice is clearly also reflected in the general social climate, although it is an extremely subjective perception of individuals who have failed in judicial proceedings. It is clear that in judicial proceedings, which by nature in most cases mean the resolution of a kind of dispute, either between individuals or between individuals and a State, one of the parties to the proceedings will not be eligible. The fact that someone fails in a court of law does not mean that the judiciary does not act well. Speaking of justice, it is also imperative that the State Prosecutor's Office be highlighted and his role in the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes, which has been particularly intense in the area of economic crime in recent years. In addition, it should be pointed out that the number of state prosecutors has practically not changed since 2005 and has been around 190 prosecutors. The number of state prosecutors, and I would like to point out this, has not increased even in 2007 when the Lukenda project was implemented and the number of judges was increased under this project. At the same time, the number of state prosecutors did not follow an increase in the number of criminals when the National Investigation Office was established. On the other hand, it is necessary to know that in recent years, state prosecutors have been given new powers by amending criminal procedural legislation or have significantly increased their work obligations by adopting a law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. In fact, it was only the Government that listened to the well-founded proposals of the State Attorney's Office in leaving, and at its letter meeting on 5 February this year decided to redistribute spending rights and allocate additional funds with the aim of human resources strengthening the Prosecutor's Office. A few words more about the commitment of citizens to improve the situation in the judiciary signed last June by the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Government and the Minister of Justice. This commitment also contributes to reducing judicial backlogs and gradually reducing the number of judges. The government has proposed and the National Assembly has also adopted amendments to the laws provided for in the undertaking. It is the novelties of Insolvency Law E and F, which have legislated a simplified compulsory settlement and a prior restructuring of companies at risk of insolvency. The amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service are also important, and the new laws on the confiscation of property of illegal origin have already been mentioned. The government has also submitted to the legislative procedure the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, on which it was yesterday that we proposed to the President of the National Assembly an extraordinary meeting, despite the dissolution of the National Assembly. The novelty contains important amendments. So it's a final settlement of the land debt problem. The novel also brings better, more sophisticated solutions in the area of real estate execution – real estate execution according to statistics represents a narrow throat of Slovenian courts. The novel also foresees some solutions aimed at speeding up and speeding up enforcement procedures in general, as well as decommissioning of executive judges. Finally, but extremely important – the novelty also improves the legal basis for a more effective recovery of maintenance claims. Therefore, for all the above reasons and for some other reasons, we consider the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance to be extremely important. Finally, let me explain that the Government, in its written opinion on the request for an extraordinary meeting in accordance with its competences, also briefly identified the specific cases mentioned by the applicant in his material. I don't go to them in this place. In view of the renewed initiatives taken by the proposer of this extraordinary meeting with the reform of the judiciary and the amendment of almost all the legislation applied by the judicial authorities in judicial proceedings, it is worth stressing that the Slovenian judicial system has been subject to continuous changes and adjustments since 1994, both in terms of organisational culture and structure and in terms of material and procedural legislation. Social and political changes, which were the basis for legislative adaptations, led to a rapid pace in the adoption of laws, which in practice brought a lot of problems. Due to the short deadline for implementation, legislative solutions have raised a number of questions in practice, leading to judicial backlogs, the unanimity of judicial practice and finally new legislative changes, which, often quickly and with insufficient consideration, have tried to remedy the situation. Just constantly changing legislation created legal uncertainty and damaged the legal security and stability of the Slovenian judicial system. To conclude, I should like to stress that the National Assembly, with legislative competence, provides an organisational procedural and material framework for the functioning of the judiciary and justice as a whole. It cannot and must not monitor the decision on specific cases. This is intended to provide a system of remedies allowing the parties in the proceedings to examine the impartiality, regularity and legality of the decisions of the lower courts. In addition to the ability of the parties to intervene under regular and exceptional legal measures, the Constitution also lays down the powers of the Constitutional Court, which plays an important role in assessing compliance with the Constitution, and the protection of human rights and freedoms is also ensured through the system of constitutional appeal. The European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union also act as one of the corrections to the protection of human rights and freedoms under special conditions. This also ensures adequate care for the independence and impartiality of our courts by the competent authority outside Slovenia. Since the debater mentioned or spoke before me about the European Commission's recommendation on justice, I would like to say that the classification among the 6 countries of the European Union that still need the recommendations of the European Commission, i.e. this recommendation with yesterday's date, Slovenia did not happen because of the situation in the judicial system or in the field of justice, but that yesterday's recommendations – about the places where we still need improvement – related to further financial consolidation, the banks and the financial system, pension reform, jobs and so on. Finally, let me propose or express the hope that today's debate will be aimed at exchanging views and constructive proposals so that we do not witness possible unacceptable judgments in concrete cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u7	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u8	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! If we have a problem and if we're aware of it and we're looking for ways to solve this problem, then that's fine. But if we have a problem and we put our heads in the sand and we talk about how everything is okay, then this problem is growing, growing, growing until it breaks once. If what the Government is saying is true, then the European Commission is mistaken. And at the very least, her views should be demarcated. If what the Government says is true, then more than three quarters of the people in this country are wrong, because 73%, 74% of the people in this country see that we have a very large and very serious problem in justice for some time. A while ago, we had a public presentation in Parliament on the electoral system and there was no debater to commend the current electoral system. Everyone agreed that the electoral system needed to be changed so that, as it is, it did not reflect the real will of people. And opinions were shared only in what way and when changes should take place. We have repeatedly talked about justice, its inefficiency, its bias, its many cases of public conduct by judges and prosecutors who question their independence and impartiality. Many agree that our justice often, unfortunately all too often, does not work in the direction of seeking truth and ensuring justice. Many also agree that justice often, unfortunately too often, does not work in the direction of strengthening the balance in society by seeking the truth, by seeking what is right and right, and by condemning evil or what is wrong and what is wrong. Many agree that a permanent mandate does not yet mean irresponsibility and silence for conduct, that judges should be allowed to carry out their work in a high-quality manner, i.e. without such or different influences and without delay. Regrettably, the permanent mandate has been turned into a cloak of inviolability, which many judges consider to be immunity for their poor work, and recent cases of some trials have shown that even as a shield against trials that smell of corruption, even bribery of judges, some also political bias. All these actions undermine the reputation of Slovenian justice and call for thorough changes. Although the public expects a thorough change in the judicial system, this awareness among those who are supposed to decide on these changes and today form the majority of this Parliament, as we have just heard, is not deep enough. I am convinced that a similar public debate, as we have recently witnessed about the electoral system, would show the same picture in the judiciary. The unified view that fundamental changes are needed in the field of justice and that each day of postponement is a loss to people, as well as to individuals and society as a whole. The fact is that justice in the Republic of Slovenia enjoys the lowest degree of trust among all countries of the European Union. This is evident both from the European Commission's analyses and from Eurobarometer data. In the Republic of Slovenia, 73% of citizens and citizens do not trust the justice system; only 24% trust it. Slovenia has therefore agreed last among the Member States of the European Union, first of all Finland, where the judiciary is entrusted with 85% of citizens and citizens and does not trust only 13%. Judgments in Slovenia are still pronounced on behalf of the people, which is a kind of paradox, and more than respect for democratic principles of justice and respect for human rights, speaks of the continuation of the revolutionary judiciary, which the people served only as a cover to make decisions that took care of the removal of class enemies, as stated by Ljubo Bavcon, according to the newly venerable city of Ljubljana, in their textbook on which they apparently did so today, and the class enemy without evidence also condemned many generations of judges. Since I mentioned Slovenia and Finland earlier and this comparison, it is possible that the Patria process is a symbolic indicator of why this is so. In Finland, the defendant was acquitted, i.e. dismissed those who were supposed to give or promise prizes, and in Slovenia, without proof of an Indian judgment, the court, based on indicia, translated as speculation or mental construct, sentenced the President of the largest opposition party to receive the promise of an unknown day in an unknown place and in an unknown communication manner, not for themselves, but for the third party, and thus for those who were released in Finland. Not only is this process, which in some ways represents only the top of the iceberg, but it is a number of other cases of unfair, unfair, long-standing trial on the one hand and numerous cases of delaying, prescribing the judicial files until the acquittal or withdrawal of the charges, without arguments on the other. Trust in justice and respect for judicial decisions cannot be prescribed by law. Trust and respect can only be gained through effective and impartial work. Reasons for such low confidence in justice can be sought at least two levels. The first is that many judges and prosecutors do not even try to appear impartial or apolitical, which is one of the fundamental assumptions of any impartial judicial system. And the second level is the decisions of the judiciary, which are not only different in the same, identical situations, which could eliminate higher levels of decision-making, but are also interestingly motivated through the entire proceedings and often represent harsh interventions into human rights and freedoms by the active conduct and passive conduct of the judge. For example, in the first case, contrary to the previous jurisprudence or constitutional practice, and in the second case, by disregarding the right to a trial within a reasonable time, by causing obsolescence and so on. The problem is probably also that Slovenian justice has never really broken the cord with the former non-democratic system. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 3 that in the Republic of Slovenia the authority of the people who exercise it directly and through elections under the principle of the division of power to the legislative, executive and judicial authorities is the same as that of the three branches of authority, which is exercised in relation to the people on whose behalf the authority exercises the same legitimate expectations as other branches of authority. The judiciary or the judiciary in a broader sense may, or should be subject to public criticism as any other branch of authority, and in the same way as any other branch of government, must demonstrate its fundamental objectives of efficiency, independence and impartiality by its functioning and not by a declaration of independence as provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The same applies to efficiency. Simply put, independence and impartiality must not become an alibi for irresponsibility, bad or even bad decisions and bad work. This responsibility is even greater in the case of criminal proceedings, as they directly interfere with human rights and freedoms or protect human rights and freedoms by their decisions. Over the decades, the theory and practice of criminal law have changed. In the former totalitarian, communist regime, for example, the criminal law was "a means of repression and for systematic more against a particular part of the population and intended to fight against a class which, because of its different views, resists the integrity of existing social arrangements or its constituent parts," both Ljubo Bavcon in his 1978 textbook and later, in the late 1980s. At the time, criminal law was therefore placed on an individual and on his fundamental human right to personal and political freedom and, on behalf of politics and ideology, also concerned the sanctioning of deviations from the system at that time. The judiciary was actually tried on behalf of the people against the people. Unfortunately, in some cases this practice is still taking place today. In a number of cases. With the independence of our country, the Basic Constitutional Charter, which states that the former state did not act as a legally regulated state and had grave human rights violations. Through the adoption of our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a democratic system has been established in which the judiciary of the Ombudsman and fundamental freedoms should be subordinated to these same rights and freedoms, thus also subordinated to the human right to freedom of expression of thought, and thus subordinated to the criticism of the people on whose behalf he judges. The 'decision of the courts must not be criticized or publicly opposed, because they are independent and autonomous' means nothing more than a democratic deficit and the placement of justice over human rights and freedoms. Such an arrangement was the basic element and common denominator of all totalitarianisms and all their implementations in the past, especially those repressive regimes, which have also been used by the judiciary to preserve power and account with political opponents — paradoxically — on behalf of the people. And as if this story is still repeating itself, almost 25 years after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Why is this happening? Probably also because in most European countries that have moved from the former regime from the communist system to democracy, they have also carried out what is called lustration, some kind of cleansing in practice. Also in the area of judiciary in the former German Democratic Republic, 50% of the judges lost their mandate in Berlin. In practice, most countries have also implemented Resolution No 1096 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which recommended such clearance. Our Slovenian Judicial Service Act 1994 provides that a permanent judicial term cannot be appointed a judge who has ever participated in judicial proceedings in which human rights have been violated, but this has not been carried out in practice, neither in judges nor in prosecutors. More. This principle has not been respected even in the case of the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, Branko Masleša, nor in the case of the appointment of Attorney General Zvonk Fischer, so that the current top of the judiciary at the symbolic level is directly linked to the previous non-democratic system, so it is, of course, an illustrative expectation that in such circumstances the judiciary will develop in a European way on the basis of the declarations in the highest Slovenian legal act. Since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, many anomalies have been present in the Slovenian judiciary. However, the most obvious is in the last period when it is obvious that judges, prosecutors and other judicial officials will not be called to account for a crime, for an eclectic violation of the provisions of the Constitution and other laws, for the passiveness of the resolution of judicial disputes and how to proceed. Evidence of bias and inefficiency and reasons for mistrust have been on a periodic basis for years, indicating that the problems are not isolated, but are a systemic problem that needs to be resolved at a normative level. Let me give just a few examples – more in explanation of the request, some of them already mentioned by the proposer, colleague Vinko Gorenak – who are talking about the fact that what we claim is true. It has been said that since independence, despite the numerous billions of taxpayers' money that has disappeared in questionable loans to a bank capital tycoon, for which banks have recently been rehabilitated for the second time, none of these bank capital tycoons have been convicted. Nobody. Former prosecutor Miran Železnik was dismissed from his job when a complete file cabinet was found, including four very important criminal cases that were outdated. And all the other numerous writings are also obsolete, mostly related to what I was talking about in the previous paragraph. The case was mentioned in the case of the Balkan Warrior, where the evidence that was taken into account in other countries, both in Italy and in Serbia, was excluded, based on the testimony of Iztok Podbregar, the LDS' visible representative, also for some time the president of this party, former director of Sova. On this basis, an exoneration judgment was issued. Although the proceedings are now being reopened because the higher court has annulled the case, in the meantime most of these people have fled the country. It is interesting, however, that the prosecution against this former director of the Owl on 9 May 2013, which is somehow in the same period as the story of the Balkan Warrior, dropped the charge of pouring money out of the secret fund into the Webs some seven years ago. After this process was stalled in every way possible, and the procedure was followed up by the withdrawal of this indictment, which involved a Circus of 50,000 euros in the outflow of this money. The Court has referred the state to justice and the Attorney General has been waiting for several months now for the position of the Soviet Union regarding the application of this application, and we can probably bet on how this procedure will end and not have to be a great visionary or psychic in order to see where it leads. Probably not in the interest of the State, since it is only a former senior member of the LDS party, former president of this party. On the other hand, ordinary citizens are being robbed of their house for 150 euros – the Vaskrsic case. On the other hand, someone who owes 3 million euros changes his status, leaves the country and avoids the procedure in one way or another. The talk was about Orion's story, where it was also about not thousands, but probably millions of euro funds and so on. The Case of Friends in bankruptcy showed some bottom at the time in this part of the justice system, despite the fact that it was revealed that one of the judges who was a Senate rapporteur who had forgiven this bankruptcy manager Branko Goršet, was a regular party participant in which the judges had fun and hung out with the bankruptcy administrators, nothing happened. Even more so, when some supervision of the work of Judge Jelka Rozman was introduced, the bankruptcy judge in the case of HKS Sicura, who awarded Goršet six times an illegal, overpriced award, a number of other irregularities were promised, non-compliance with laws, legal rules and so on, in the higher court and later even in the Supreme Court, the story swept under the rug. Even more, this judge made progress or experienced commendation by making progress. Senior Judge Matej Lužovec, who was in the Senate of Patria, accepted in one of the trials evidence from a fortune teller who saw that the killer was someone else, and not the one who was accused in the proceedings. Criminal proceedings are under way against the President of the Council of the largest opposition party, the former minister and against the professor and the priest for the legitimate public criticism of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. Thus, because of a public word, it is likely that such a procedure would embarrass us even in 1988. On the other hand, he overstepped the procedure against a police officer who threatened former Prime Minister Janez Janša with a murder, and received a return of arms and employment, perhaps even one of the highest national medals. In many cases of the worst threats to the highest representatives of the country, which stem from a certain political option, read the SDS and the prosecutions find no elements for prosecution and refer the injured to a private action. It is quite different, of course, in cases where members of another political option are at risk, not to say from which political gender. Such similar, incomprehensible decisions; decisions which, in the same identical state of affairs, constitute a completely different course of action; decisions which, even in the case of the Supreme Court, which are binding on the same case, constitute different decisions are innumerable. Not only are decisions that call into question the impartial functioning of the judicial system, but the actions of individual judges or prosecutors are such that they do not create the appearance of impartiality or even create the appearance of partiality. This is the case of the President of the District Court in Ljubljana Vesna Pavlič Pivk – this is the court where the trial was held at the first stage of the Patria case – which appeared at the public event with symbols of the totalitarian regime. After the public has been denied, the Council of Justice has nevertheless dealt with the matter. And what? He issued a warning. The lady is still the President of the Court. Supreme Prosecutor Andrej Ferlinc, who is the prosecutor in Patria's second case, walks with him on the streets of Maribor in connection with the accused Jurete Cekuta. And then we listen to a few weeks of speculation about whether they were going one way or the other, whether they happened to meet together or not, until someone who recorded it even testified how it was. But the problem is bigger. None of the competent authorities have spoken on this matter. Not to the State Prosecutor's Council, not to the Minister and not to the Attorney General, such conduct did not appear to be disputed. Not to mention the judge of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana Vesna Bergant Rakočević, who commented in an open case in a way that should not have received such a comment, because she did not know if she would receive the file herself. Warnings about the situation in Slovenian justice do not come only from domestic logos, they also come from abroad, at all levels, both institutional and international political associations. From the findings of the international institutions, and also from the statistics of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, we can conclude that the Slovenian judiciary is not only becoming less effective, but also that the degree of independence of the judiciary is decreasing, and is already at one of the lowest levels, as we have seen through data in the EU. On 13 November 2013, the Assembly of the European People's Party unanimously adopted a resolution on Slovenia, which highlighted some of the critical problems of Slovenian justice and, like the European Commission, before this situation in the judiciary, assessed the situation as unsatisfactory or worrying and in this regard pointed out that they ensured fair trial and the presumption of innocence to be fundamental human rights. Similarly, the International Democratic Union on 11 April this year. It is a union of democratic parties that counts over 80 members from more than 60 countries. The Code of Judicial Ethics provides in Article 10 that "a judge with a personal example shall protect the example of a court and avoid inappropriate conduct or behaviour in all his activities". The Code therefore obliges the judge to "adjust his conduct and conduct both in and outside the service, thereby safeguarding the integrity of the judiciary and ensuring public confidence in the judiciary". It is therefore the duty to ensure impartiality, including ensuring the very appearance of impartiality, on the part of the Court and the Judges. In doing so, it is not enough that the rules adopted are such that they command the appearance of impartiality, but that this action must take place on a case-by-case basis and on a case-by-case basis, as well as from the point of view of the judiciary as a whole. And in one of the cases that I regret to mention again, because it is the most in the sky that is absorbing after these standards have not been met, after violating one of the normal standards, after violating many legal postulates, of course, is the case with Patria. In this case, these standards have clearly been disrupted and eliminated. The conviction is not based on any evidence, even after the grounds of the Court of Appeal, but on indications that the court claims to constitute a so-called indictable circle in which the main suspect or accused John Janša is not at all. The court’s judgment in this process, both second and first stage, has also become known by the fact that it was not publicly defended by any legal expert in the field of criminal law and that, on the other hand, justified criticisms, reasoned criticisms were expressed by a number of distinguished legal experts — from Dr. Lovra Šturm, via Matevž Krivica, Dr. Klemna Jaklic, Dr. Matei Avbla, Dr. Ivan Belet, and so on. The decision of the Court, in particular the higher court, is also contrary to the case-law of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia which, in a judgment rendered before the first instance and prior to the issuance of the second instance judgment, was issued on 1 March 2012, the Supreme Court’s judgment in one case held the position: “Without the necessary breakdown and justification, it is clear that the accused can only defend himself against allegations that he has committed a specific act, not that he has committed an undetermined day against unidentified persons in an undetermined manner and similarly committed a criminal offence in a particular case.” This judgment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia should also respect, in its decision, a court which, without evidence, has passed judgment on an act which is to take place on an undetermined day, and so on, I do not repeat if it has already disregarded basic legal and general human standards. But she's not. Not only was it not respected or taken into account by the Court of First Instance but it has also done the same in an appeal and thus set a new standard of trial and conviction in our legal system without evidence, which will undoubtedly have far-reaching consequences. However, so far the public may be less aware of the fact that this process is linked to another action, which is very important for the country. This is a complaint against the country tabled by the System Technology, amounting to half a billion euros. In view of this judgment without evidence, this judgment is, despite the fact that it is not based on evidence, a fairly credible document for the enforcement of this claim against the State. Thus, it reveals an additional dimension in this process, in addition to the political motive which, through the judiciary, seeks to achieve the elimination of Janez Janša, as well as of SDS parties from political life, there is a financial motive to make full legal use of the tax collectors in a legal way, which has led to many bank-capital tycoons who have reached hundreds of millions, billions of loans that will never be returned through friendly links. They will be returned to them by those with the lowest income in this country. Respected, with independence and a new constitutional order, new legal frameworks for the functioning of the judiciary in our country should be laid down, but the persons implementing this legal order remain more or less the same. On the basis of this provision, no person lost a judicial or judicial function on the basis of known information, either at that time or later. Moreover, I mentioned earlier that at the summit of justice and the prosecution there are persons who participated in proceedings where human rights and fundamental freedoms were clearly violated. 25 years ago, in the political process, John Janša was convicted as a then political challenger who was a threat to power because he advocated human rights, democratic standards and a state of his own. The territory of Slovenia, which was then part of Yugoslavia, was represented by Milan Kučan. At the time of the absence of democracy, at least the evidence was tried to do what they used a green marker to substantiate Janša’s confidential documents. Today, after 25 years in democracy in the heart of Europe, there was not even enough effort to use this green marker. The conviction was served by an Indian circle in which the prime suspect is not present. Who, then, is now ruling in justice after 25 years? Who's ordering the verdicts today? In many cases, justice and justice are certainly not. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly is the body which is obliged and responsible to adopt legislation in the field of justice; legislation which will ensure an effective and independent judiciary in the sense of respect for and enforcement of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Ignorance of today's problems in the judicial system is reflected in the constant denial of the problems that people feel, they feel, and that also makes justice lose its effectiveness, it loses impartiality, which is most important, it loses the trust of the people on whose behalf it actually judges. And if the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is not willing to adopt appropriate legal frameworks to ensure an effective and impartial trial that will prevent the abuse of justice for any purpose, it means that most Members of the National Assembly of Slovenia agree with such a situation, which is bad. Therefore, in preparing the proposal for today's meeting, the proposal was based on the following conclusions. First, that the effectiveness of justice is significantly lower, as is the average in the Member States of the European Union; that the number of judges and prosecutors in our country is much higher than the average in the Member States of the European Union; that the Republic of Slovenia devotes significantly more resources to the functioning of the justice system per capita, than on average in the European Union, to almost EUR 87 per cent compared to 41 euros in the European Union; that a number of judges and prosecutors, by their way of action, generate the appearance of impartiality, and by their decisions, also demonstrate the lack of professional knowledge of the judiciary based on an independent and fair trial; that the judicial and judicial council of that body do not mostly deal with or deal with such matters as to protect their members of society; and that they also provide for the rule of law on the basis of the possible crisis, on the basis of an independent and fair trial; that the judicial framework of that body of the justice of that body does not, the majority of those cases, and that they are not, by way, and that they are considered by way, and that they protect their members of law, and that they protect their members of society; that it is based on the basis of law; And in this context and on the basis of these findings, we have proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of guidelines for the preparation of this judicial reform, in order to ensure that the permanent mandate of judges is still ensured, but this will only be permanent after a certain trial period has been successfully completed, but it cannot be this mandate and is not yet life-long. Despite being appointed for a permanent term of office, the judge is still allowed to be deprived of this mandate, and this is also happening today, but in very rare cases, because it is mostly protected through the Council of Justice. We have proposed that legislative reform allow for transparency in the work of the judicial system; to enable it to be more effective, to reduce procedures and to prevent the abuse of this system, both for political processes and other abuses; to lose a mandate in the event that, at any stage of the decision, judges voted in favour of a decision which constitutes an intervention in human rights and fundamental freedoms which, as such, has already been confirmed by the Constitutional Court of Slovenia as a case-law; to decide, in the light of the case-law of the European Union countries, which, according to the European Commission, have the highest level of confidence in justice, in particular in terms of efficiency, impartiality and personal integrity of judges and prosecutors. And so on. As you know, the current ruling majority has not been able to accept these guidelines. The postponement of judicial reform will further deepen and deepen social differences, as a well-functioning justice based on law and justice is one of the basic foundations, not only for the operation and development of democratic society, but also one of the fundamental conditions for ensuring an economically successful and social state that provides work for young people and other generations, and for older people of safe age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavticnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. I beg your pardon? Procedurally? Just a minute, Mr. Kavticnik. Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u10	President, thank you so much for your word. It's no problem to sit here and listen, but I do have a déjà vu feeling like it's all been heard and happened the same way. I mean, we've actually heard all this a couple of times lately. Therefore, my procedural proposal or request for future extraordinary meetings is to really think about what can be put on the agenda, because they are literally all the same sentences, the same notes and, in fact, it is like ballast to work in the National Assembly, especially if we now consider that Parliament is disbanded. And we have also heard today, including by the profession, the Secretary of State has also pointed to the risky narrow area of political interference in the judiciary. I want to say that I do not actually see the added value and I would like to ask you nicely in the future, because these extraordinary sessions can now be repeated to reflect on the content and meaning of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u11	Thank you for your procedural warning, but I must remind you that we are in an extraordinary session and we must hold an extraordinary meeting, in accordance with the Constitution's decision. The content under discussion has in fact also been reviewed and most of the elements submitted for discussion meet the conditions that the National Assembly may discuss them and that the decision of the working body is also known. The working body rejected the proposed proposals so that today this debate will be concluded without a decision. We continue the debate. As I have already announced, Mr Jožef Kavticnik will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings to all present! Yes, it is true that the National Assembly has been disbanded and that today we are talking about that the National Assembly should adopt or deal with some legislation that would improve the situation in the judiciary, but respected colleagues from the SDS, you have been in Parliament all along and have an impact on the legislation, including in the judiciary. That's why today, one month before the elections, it's funny, to say the least, but I'm sure even viewers and viewers know that this is one of the attempts at a pre-election performance. However, in Positive Slovenia we want to have such a justice system that would be even better to improve, but it is a process, such as the process all that is happening around us, and I am sure that with well-intentioned and right suggestions you and all of us can contribute to a better system. At today’s meeting of the National Assembly, we are again facing the situation in the judiciary and in the eyes of politics. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, we do not approve that the policy assesses the efficiency and quality of the judiciary. Of course, we would all like the procedures to be as short as possible in order for the judiciary to be even more effective in order for people to reach judicial epilogues as soon as possible. No one is satisfied with this when a verdict is reached. Those who have been wronged are not satisfied because it has run too slowly. It's too slow for them. However, those who have been condemned are, of course, dissatisfied with the condemnation and, of course, with those who have spoken it. Optimization of the judiciary will always be questionable from the individual's point of view, but in Positive Slovenia we still believe that the rule of law in which we live is at the heart of social development. And that's what the proposalr was talking about. That the rule of law and justice is the basis. Of course, it is important how and how we have established and established this. If we are always doubting and doubting a system or subsystem, then this suspicion is passed on to other people, especially if we suspect a politician. The reasons for the reference referred to by the proposer do not, in the view of Positive Slovenia, reflect the actual situation in the judiciary. Such an attitude, however, can be detrimental in terms of ensuring the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. Although the applicants are supposed to stand up primarily for an independent and impartial judiciary, as we welcome, it is quite the opposite of what was said at the meeting of the Justice Committee. Predicts that the judiciary is influenced by some elites are biased and based on public discredit. This, of course, can also be dangerous, for it introduces mistrust and unrest among people. For Positive Slovenia, it is unfair and unacceptable to refer to the judiciary as communist and so forth and after all. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what young, ambitious, knowing man today becomes a judge associated with the former system, with communism, as you mentioned. How can you label or label such a person, burn him, assign him all these negative marks that you've given him, and you think you've done a good job? That people do not have confidence in the justice system is another issue that the proponents confirm with public research. Indeed, public research is the only mermaid in this case. In Positive Slovenia alone, I would say no. Otherwise, we do not know in Positive Slovenia why the courts in their annual reports, for example in 2013 from January to September, state the case in all district courts, that is 460 thousand 785 cases. Nearly half a million cases get court-martialed a year, and people turn to the court to solve their problem, the dispute. Why are they turning to them? Because they don't trust them or because they trust them. Probably because, as the Secretary-General of the Supreme Court has said, people dealing with the court are much more pleased with their work than they want to show themselves. The public generally creates an image of the functioning of the judiciary, mainly on the basis of media treatment, including on the basis of policy statements, not so much on the basis of personal experience. For the vast majority of people have never directly participated in the trial. While public defamation of the judiciary in no way affects the better opinion of people. Even the opposite. As with all subsystems, justice is changing and needs to adapt to situations. This was not the least presented by the representative of the judiciary. And with proper and well-intentioned initiatives we will be able to do so, and in Positive Slovenia we will be able to defend this way. People may get the impression that the judgments of the courts do not have to be respected if individuals disagree with their decision. Of course, you may not agree, but the verdict must be respected. In doing so, it should be noted that it is in every trial, whether fair or criminal, someone who is not satisfied with its outcome. It is for the purpose of judicial protection in our judicial proceedings that there are both regular and exceptional remedies that each citizen has the right to enjoy. The current Criminal Procedure Act has three legal remedies and two extraordinary legal remedies. In addition, there is the possibility of a constitutional appeal for violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms and, last but not least, the possibility of filing a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. These legal remedies, which are also regulated in a comparable manner by the Law on the Judicial Procedure for the Purpose of Civil Procedures, provide, in the view of Positive Slovenia, adequate and effective protection of rights – of course not the best, there is still something to fix – transparency of procedures and ensure the prevention of abuses. In this regard, however, there should also be mention of an institution for the expulsion of a judge or a state prosecutor, which further contributes to the impartiality of judges and prosecutors. The decision in specific cases is therefore intended to provide a system of remedies allowing parties or participants in proceedings to examine the impartiality, regularity and legality of decisions of lower courts, while the National Assembly, by its legislative power, provides the organisational, procedural and material framework of the functioning of the judiciary and cannot and must not decide or discuss specific cases, and even less so interfere with them. If we focus on concrete proposals for recommendations that could be adopted at all within the competence of the National Assembly, we would first point out in Positive Slovenia the proposal that judges should lose their mandate if at any stage they voted in favour of a decision which constitutes an infringement of human rights and fundamental freedoms which, as such, has already been confirmed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia before or after a decision in contravention of the case-law of higher-level courts. In this regard, we stress that in its work the court is exclusively bound by the Constitution and the law – Article 125 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This also ensures the independence of judges in the exercise of their judicial functions. The case law in our space is thus not a formal legal source, but in deciding on more than one and similar cases it creates a consistent case-law which is important for the interpretation of general, I speak of general, legal and enforcement rules and therefore they are taken into account in practice. In doing so, it should be pointed out that each case, from case to case, is unique. It is therefore necessary to be careful when applying the case-law. In practice, it would be difficult to find two identical factual situations, so that the case law should be binding, or even a reason to dismiss the judge in the event of a different decision, is unacceptable. Furthermore, the applicant proposes that the higher court should always make a decision at the appeal stage, speed up the abolition of the judicial arrears and increase the effectiveness of the courts, while in the criminal procedure it is an exception that the higher court only decides on the case or does not refer the matter to the Court of First Instance in legal proceedings, as amended by the Law on the Judicial Procedure of 2008. It provides that the court of second instance shall, by judgment, decide in the case and, exceptionally, revoke the judgment and refer it to the Court of First Instance for a new trial if, due to the misapplication of the application of substantive law, the factual situation has been fully established and the court, depending on the nature of the matter and the circumstances of the case, shall assess that it cannot merely complete the proceedings or remedy those deficiencies. The options available to the Court of First Instance in its decision on the appeal against the judgment of the Court of First Instance are therefore adapted to both the types of finding irregularities and the appropriateness of their management. According to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed recommendation that an absolute prohibition should be imposed on return to the new court of first instance should be eased, since in certain cases certain infringements committed by the first-degree courts cannot, as a rule, be remedied on their own, for example, if the whole proceedings are burdened with a certain procedural error. With regard to the proposal for a recommendation to give effect to a probationary mandate, after which the judge would have the right to pursue a permanent mandate, we would point out that such a regime would also threaten the independence of the courts in the event of its entry into force. The sustainability of the judicial function provided by the Constitution in Article 129, as I have already said, is one of the fundamental elements of the independence of the judge. The question that is emerging is what should be assessed by the judge after the probationary term of office to turn him into a secret on the basis of this mandate. Certainly, the Court’s substantive decision cannot be a criterion or a subject, since in this case there would be an evaluation of the determination of the Council of Justice. The assessment of the judge during the trial period could thus not be avoided by the impression that it was subjective to an assessment of the specific cases of the trial if the candidate had not been elected. The test of compliance with the conditions for election should therefore be based on objective facts concerning the completion of the part of the candidate but not on the trial. Therefore, it is possible to assess whether a candidate is personally fit to perform a judicial function on the basis of the candidates' professional references reached and his attitude towards work in past jobs, since a judge cannot be nominated by someone who has just completed a legal college, but needs a so-called judicial examination, and at least three years of working experience in legal works after a legal examination has been carried out. For all the reasons mentioned above, in Positive Slovenia we rejected the proposal for a proposal from the applicant at the meeting of the Committee of the Mother Labour Body. However, because we do not approve of the fact that politics assesses the work of the judiciary, we do not intend to participate in this debate in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u14	Your Honor! In preparing the position of the Group of Social Democrats, we have considered how to prepare our position so that we do not repeat ourselves. But it's not working. One possibility is to prepare a compilation of all the views that have been prepared so far, on a similar subject, of course. Why am I saying that? Following the replacement of the Government in this mandate, a set of requirements for the convening of extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly has been listed. In the field of justice, the following were appointed: 38th meeting on 5 June 2013; 40th extraordinary meeting on 5 July 2013, Proposal for a Recommendation on the situation of democracy in Slovenia, in relation to the basis of Council of Europe Resolution No 1096; 44th extraordinary meeting on 1 October 2013, entitled Proposal for a Recommendation on the issue of supervision and accountability under the Financial Action Act, on insolvency and forced termination procedures; 54th extraordinary meeting on 7 February 2014, entitled Proposal for a Decision on the situation in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office concerning the prosecution of the worst forms of economic and financial crime and on the detection of suspects of former State Security Services. We have already addressed all these topics, individually, several times in the previous mandate. Today's debate on the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with the Proposal for a Recommendation on the implementation of the rule of law in terms of the effectiveness, impartiality and independence of the judiciary, which it has drawn up or the sum of the SDS, will therefore be about the stories already heard, mainly about the attack on the judiciary or on the judiciary, forcing the public to believe that everything is wrong in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. It's the right time. And I'm not just talking about the upcoming national elections. Let me repeat at the 38th extraordinary session on 5 June 2013 the introductory thought of our position: "Social Democrats defend the notion that it is unacceptable that in the event that politicians or privileged members of the elite are found in the process, the authority of the court is compromised. Judges must be an independent and equal branch of the authorities, because they must protect the rights and defend the equality of the parties in judicial proceedings." In our opinion, the permanent term of office is a guarantee for an independent judiciary. For a judge who will dare to judge and punish himself until recently untouchable. We will support those legal solutions that will go in the direction of determining the strictest professional ethical criteria that will have to meet the candidate for a judge. However, not only judges but also support staff must act ethically and operate on the basis of legal and professional criteria. Social Democrats continue to advocate the fact that they must work alone in the judiciary and in the prosecution to gain respect and trust. They will also contribute to the reputation and trust of the judiciary by responding to court orders, respecting the decision of the courts and not making statements that give rise to a lack of respect for the decisions of the judiciary and the arrogance of the judiciary. When we read our views, we have found that the applicant has even complied with this requirement, our expectations of June 2013, and this time he has only submitted the documents referred to in the request and from which he draws the data. These are the documents of the European Commission of 27. 3. 2013 and 17. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the In its 2014 review of the situation, the European Commission found that they faced a major challenge in selecting reliable and comparable data. There are differences between national justice systems and it is difficult to compare data. How does the proposer of the request summarize this information today, but it is already another story. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice very clearly explained on the Committee how the Commission had reached them and what they had faced on the committee in selecting them. In addition to the commitment of the Supreme Court and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to citizens and citizens, the document of the Supreme Court is attached, namely, the opening of the Court of Justice in 2014 of 11. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The introductory part of this document provides an analysis of the situation from which we can determine that the number of pending cases is falling, the time of resolution is reduced, the number of judges is falling, unfortunately, the number of judicial personnel has also been changed. On the basis of the identified weak points, measures to eliminate these are being prepared below. The document shall contain conclusions, proposals and recommendations. Last year we were informed of the whereabouts of the President of the Supreme Court, and this time there is an accompanying photograph from the Maribor Partizanska Street, where Mariborcan, a citizen, Attorney General Ferlinc and accused Celjan Jure Cekuta met. I once said there are no coincidences in politics. I think, but this time too, it wasn't a coincidence, especially if we look at who published the photograph first. However, we can agree with the remarks made by the President of the Supreme Court on the working body that Mr Ferrinc acted appropriately. Once again, it can be found that the judiciary and the prosecution are, by nature, always a top topic in a negative sense, especially since 2010 and 2011, after or at the time of the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General. We continue to hear that the left political option is the one that directly affects the situation in both the judiciary and the prosecution. Once again, I call on the applicants to look at the history of the Public Prosecutor's Office's Office's leadership, as well as the history of the Supreme Court's leadership. Social Democrats are aware that the satisfaction of citizens and citizens will always be shared when any judgment is delivered. Especially in those media more receptive judgments, when we do not know all the facts and conclude on the correctness or irregularity of judgment only on the basis of media reviews. Once again, in the Group of Social Democrats we support a permanent judicial mandate and not a life sentence, as stated in a document. The officials of the judiciary and the prosecution organisations should ensure that they restore the reputation and respect of citizens and citizens through quality and effective work. The supervisory authorities within the judiciary and the prosecution should sanction those who do not act in accordance with the Constitution in accordance with laws and ethical criteria and ensure that the judiciary can carry out the tasks imposed by the Constitution and legislation impartially and independently. However, the holders of the highest political functions must respect the decisions of the courts. A number of prosecutors, prosecutors, judges, judges, judges have already been appointed in the introduction to this session, and judges’ decisions have been made, without the knowledge of the individual files — or they have — and without adequate legal knowledge. Is this the protection of the integrity of judges and judges? Doesn't that cause aggressive acts against them? Remember the bombs on the windows, the threats to the families, and I could count it. And then there's something that's already standard on the side of the SDS. There has already been a threat or warning that I will not be so harsh that Patria is not being discussed because of Patria’s absence. At the same time, the SDS representative is discussing a broad debate on the judgment delivered, which proves what the purpose of this meeting is. Isn't that an impact on the whole of justice, name-calling, intimidation and indirectly also a threat to all the justice systems that, if you don't judge as we say, you have a lot of things ahead of you? Believe me, it's hard to participate in a session like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u15	Thank you. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President. Like many before me, I can at first find out that we are once and for all in the same way present to the extraordinary fairs launched by the SDS party and in which in the last year, he has tried every effort to discredit the judiciary and to reduce its authority. It is amazing that the applicant, as one of the reasons for calling such a meeting, this time, mentions the lack of confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law and the courts, the entire material of this meeting, as well as all the meetings before it, and all the discrimination that takes place in the media and otherwise, are intended to undermine the confidence of citizens and citizens. How should citizens and citizens trust in justice, believe in it, obey its decisions, and when some top officials undermine this decision all the time? I'll get to the conclusion right away, which my colleague has already made before me, and it's not hard to make if you look at the material. This meeting is intended for only one purpose. This is the discreditation of the judiciary with a view to generating and encouraging doubts about a legal conviction against the former Prime Minister. It is therefore an attempt to re-relativise this judgment and to try again to exert pressure on the judiciary. The SDS Party wishes to enable its President to rehabilitate, because it is obvious that the time for elections is approaching and that they are running out of time. At this time, the meetings shall not select funds. Not only is the judgment and all related to it a key part of this material, but it is by name that the applicants, with genuine personal discredits that are not related to their work, are taking on all those involved in this process, both the prosecutors, the judges and so on. I hope that I will not be accused of the negative campaign if, as a lawyer, a citizen and a Member, I cannot be surprised that in the National Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia, we are discussing the legal conviction of one of the politicians in a society where exactly the same Members who are proposing this meeting are willing to discredit a person just because someone has filed a complaint against him, it is said at the earliest stage of the procedure. Here the entire proceedings were carried out in the prosecution, a regular hearing was conducted, a long-term and comprehensive first stage and a second stage procedure was carried out and the judgment is legally binding. Doubting such a conviction is unacceptable and constitutes direct interference with the principle of the division of power. This should not be allowed by some parliament in a regulated country. Of course, you will say that this is not a state of order, not a democratic state and so on. Absolutely not. At the time of entry into the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia also had to stop the strict revision of the European Union in the legal field and in particular in the field of legislation, in particular in the field of criminal law. All our legal acts have been reviewed and, of course, they would not have been adopted into the European Union if there were other elements of previous regimes, as you would like to see many among you. Remember, too, that it has been 20 years since independence and since the previous regime and that all those judges whom you refer to as remnants of the communist regime have been retired or have ceased to serve. However, on the Justice Committee, Dr. Vinko Gorenak described the judiciary as a pillar that had broken down and added that, in their view, this catastrophic situation has lasted for years and years, but they have been pointing to it since 2004. That's interesting, ever since this party came into power for the first time. The solutions offered throughout this period are also practically the same: lustration, the termination of a permanent mandate, the replacement of everyone who has ever worked in justice. So far, nothing has been done, even though this party has been strong in Parliament all the time and has had its levers. Of course, to be fair, I must say that we can only influence justice in Parliament indirectly by adopting appropriate legislation, by revising legislation, by amending laws and so on. However, something can be done, and this has been shown by the government of Alenka Bratusek. In this mandate, many things have been done to really improve the situation in justice, not only to discredit justice. For example, amendments to the Law on Courts and Judicial Services have been adopted in order to give the Presidents of the Courts greater responsibility to be able to supervise, in particular in terms of greater efficiency, their judges. For as far as decision-making is concerned, there should be no questions, judges are judged by the Constitution and the law and are fully independent of what we can influence, and their effectiveness and serious steps towards this end have been taken in this mandate. Secondly, as the Secretary of State has mentioned, an agreement has been signed between the judiciary and other branches of government and citizens on the specific setting of time limits to be respected in the case-by-case proceedings and the judiciary has committed itself to respect these deadlines and, as you have been able to hear the statistics, many of these deadlines have been respected and the backlogs have been reduced visibly. Further, despite the extremely difficult situation, particularly the financial crisis, and the great financial crisis, this government has found the necessary resources to set up new funds for the work of prosecutors, for the new city of prosecution, is called prosecutorial reinforcements, and this is something that we are confident will soon have even better results. Next. It was amended in the previous term by the Law on the Seizure of Unlawfully Acquisition of Unlawfully Acquisitioned Property, and this is precisely in a way which is now intended to finally enable this property to be seized. And as the Secretary of State mentioned, the Land Book Act has also been amended, which prevents the concealment of property to those who may have acquired it in an illegal way. That the situation is not ideal, of course we are also aware in our parliamentary group. Ideally, it is not practical in any area, and we also keep reminding ourselves that some things still need to be changed. If work in the courts has started to move faster, if judges are working faster and the backlogs are to be reduced, in particular in those cases that are most exposed, that is, in criminal proceedings, it is necessary to ensure that proceedings are expedited even during the investigation phase, pre-trial procedures and procedures before the prosecution are made. And in this direction, this government, as I have already mentioned, has put forth effort and will. Next. It must, of course, be acknowledged that, like everywhere in the judiciary, we have bad and good people, judges and others, and it is necessary to insist that the Presidents of the courts assume the responsibility, that the Council of Justice assumes responsibility and that they exclude from their system those who cast a bad light on all others who do good. In addition, a few minor amendments to the legislation have to be made, which has proved inappropriate and has continued to work consistently to ensure that the judiciary is independent and works as best as possible. By quoting specific issues, specific judgments – of course only those like us – and by discrediting everything on the average, of course, we do not help, so I will end by saying a few words in connection with these ongoing debates on how the judiciary is communist, left, left and all the insulting expressions you so like to use. As with all conservative systems, so it is said to be the medical system, the judiciary is also known that people in it are much more conservative or, as it is said politically, right-minded, because you don't want us to admit that we are all people, including judges, besides being social beings, including political beings, who have our own global visual conviction. This does not mean, of course, that we do not have to respect the law and the law and decide independently. However, if you are talking about these world-renowned political beliefs, I would only say, for a more balanced picture of those who may still be looking at this House, as my colleague has told me before me, that we should just look at the history of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, and then tell me which one of them was the left world-centred. Perhaps, exceptionally, so you say, you could say that about this last one, about everything in front of him in no way. When you criticize the work of the prosecution, which bears the highest responsibility for criminal proceedings, remember who led this prosecution for years and years – Mrs Barbara Brezigar. When you criticize the judiciary in general, when you talk about thanking God that we have multiple instances, because our judiciary continues to be wrong, let me remind you of the Constitutional Court. The President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Miroslav Mozetič, was a Member, I think, of Christian democracy or what that party was called, in short, the right party. Let us remember the case of Stefanec and all the pump in this regard, and Mr Štefanec will never decide such important matters as are decided by the judges of the Constitutional Court. This was a Member, a true politician who is now the President of the Constitutional Court and, of course, if we are already talking about what we are admitting to ourselves that you all know that, according to the worldview, the current ratio of forces in the Constitutional Court is five to four, if not even more. In short, in the end, I would just like to mention in relation to the direct judgment of Patria, which you have repeatedly mentioned, in my opinion, that one of the Constitutional Judges, Mr Petrič, has also been inadmissible, inadmissible for a Constitutional Judge in relation to a specific case. In some rare cases, the Constitutional Court has, indeed, been determined in the past to break proceedings or very important infringements in criminal proceedings at lower levels of trial, but only extremely serious infringements may be such infringements as the Constitutional Court reacts to. Mr Petrič, the Constitutional Judge, on one of the public broadcasts, on the Tarč show, allowed this freedom to comment on the specific political situation and said he hoped that the judges in criminal matters – it was clear on which matter was discussed – acted in a watertight manner, which meant exactly the opposite of the practice of the Constitutional Court, where only extremely large violations could be the reason for the intervention of the Constitutional Court. In short, I hate to talk to you in your way, but when I listen to the same and the same sentences of people who probably didn't think in their lives that they would be by name and surname just because the judges or prosecutors mentioned in this National Assembly and discredited, I can't help but try to balance this scale a little bit and tell you what to do back. Let me get this straight. Clearly, the purpose of today’s session is not to discuss problems honestly. He never was. We other Members are trying, discussing problems, citing statistics and so on, but we know that the purpose is different. In your opinion, each trial is a political construct, politically motivated, legal convictions are victims, and they are guilty, in any case someone with a relative or someone knows or has done something wrong in the past. In short, we destroy the reputation of the judiciary and lead people to believe that they too will no longer trust in any court decision, that they too will no longer go to court hearings, that they too will not want to accept judicial writings, that they too will avoid executioners, that they too will avoid being served by judicial decisions and so on. Anyone who wants to live in such a country should contribute. I don't want to. I intend to respect consistently the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the judges and to believe that they are acting under the Constitution and the law. To those who do not, however, this will be demonstrated through a number of verification procedures, which are known and known in the judiciary and have been mentioned many times today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Of course, the reference to today's extraordinary session does not give a sense of sincere effort and concern to the applicant for the state of justice and the rule of law. For the third time on the same subject and, of course, my position will not be problematic, because I will repeat it for the third time. All the statements or observations made by the proposer for the reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting have been thoroughly examined on the Committee and, on this Committee, convincingly, reasonedly and effectively, also denied or duly reasoned. And I don't think there's any doubt that the findings or the findings are unfounded. However, we cannot allow ourselves, nor can I personally comment on specific cases. I don't think we have a look at the files, we don't have a look at the specifics, and I don't hope to judge this moment whether these matters are wrong or not. However, there is an effective remedy in such cases as the applicant states in his proposal. The new Penal Code was adopted in 2007 under the government of Janez Janša and under the judicial minister Dr. Lover Sturm. At that time, a new crime, called an illegal, biased and unfair trial, was also established in opposition to the professional public, if I say so. While this was some sort of unique, but this legal remedy here is, the crime in this law is and it is said that a judge who, when conducting a judicial procedure or passing a judicial decision, knowingly violates the law or distorts the right to give the party an advantage in the proceedings or unjustifiably gives the party an advantage by imprisonment for up to three years. The same shall also be punished by a judge who, with a view to bringing the judgment referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article to facts which he knows do not exist or are falsely fomented with false or unlawful evidence. We have a legal remedy, we have a specific crime, and all those things that smell any way of illegality, I think it's right, it's just, it's right, it's right, it's right, that anyone who runs into them should also file a criminal complaint and have such things processed. There could be no difficulty in condemning judges in this country, as Members have recently been uncompromisingly condemned, including doctors, including bankruptcy administrators, including the best managers in this country, long ago, and I think we are coming into a situation that will ensure that there are no more holy cows in this country. In the last two years, this National Assembly has adopted a series of legal novelties that provide a basis for improving the state of justice, both in the direction of action, in the direction of ensuring conditions and in particular in the direction of ensuring greater accountability and greater efficiency of justice. Last year, an undertaking was signed by the Government, the Minister of Justice and the representatives of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This commitment has made it clear to the citizens of this country that each branch of the Authority will achieve certain movements in order to ensure, and in accordance with its powers, the functioning of the rule of law. The objectives of this undertaking are clearly defined there. In the Civil Gazette, we continue to strive to increase the efficiency and independence of the judiciary on the one hand, to increase the quality of control over the judiciary and to increase the responsibility of the judiciary, and we will continue to do so. The population and the economy need an effective dispute resolution service, if anyone is in a dispute, the law and justice must offer him the opportunity to resolve such a dispute quickly, cheaply and professionally. At this point, I would like to point out that there is a great deal of silence in the courts. It is not right that a party is forced into a mediation with an argument that, on the other hand, it is awaiting a lengthy trial and, in fact, it is better for the parties to agree on their own. When people come to court, they demand and reasonably expect their dispute to be resolved in due course, quickly and effectively. They don't come to court to be sent from door to door to make a deal for themselves. In addition to the ambitious goals set in the government-justice commitment. The case in the District Courts, which lasted up to a period of 13 months, is expected to last 9 months from now. I am talking about the commitments that have been and are being realized — if we go to watch, we have reached them, or we have exceeded them. We have come from 15 months to 11 months of justice, not from district courts. Economic affairs – 14 months to date, 30% of them are expected to be resolved within two, three months, remaining in a year. Labour social disputes – 12 months, now for 9 months. Criminal cases from 18 to 12 months and six months earlier. The higher courts are the same. The number of pending cases is reduced by 3% annually, in 2013 and 2014. Resolving offenses – from 10 months to 6 months. I am not saying that the situation is ideal, I am talking about progress and that these progress must be taken into account and that such a state and dynamics must also be maintained. In 2012, Slovenian courts resolved over a million and a half cases. A million and a half things. It is said that each of us had on average one case in a court of law that was resolved in one year. The Courts of Appeal shall annul between 10 and 15 % of all cases. This means that it can be said that the courts judge qualitatively that the higher courts do not annul the cases, which means that the trend or situation is comparable as elsewhere in other comparable countries, and we can find that each 20 or every 10 judgement is the reason for the abolition of the case to change, whatever the case. This percentage is quite appropriate, but we want this percentage to be even better. In the case of economic justice, the Ljubljana District Court solves 40% more cases than it did in the previous year. Some 900 to 1,000 offenders of economic crime per year are convicted, led to a legal judgment. Trends in the Special Prosecutor's Office: in 2007 15 cases pending conviction, 2008 23 cases pending conviction, 2009 27 cases pending conviction, 2010 33 cases pending conviction, 2011 26 and 2012 54 cases. We cannot say that this trend is not positive. We want this matter to be even more effective all the time, but we cannot say that things are not going in the right direction. And one more thing. The Special Prosecutor's Office recently made a public commitment and a promise to one of the Justice Committees. By the end of 2016, the Special Prosecutor's Office will be able to process all banking crime before the courts. With the human resources they have. This is very ambitious, very ambitious and I think they must be supported in all this. The problems of justice are elsewhere, even as the motioner says, that we also have judges who sometimes impress impartiality, sometimes their judgments may also be problematic. But as a matter of fact, I can't comment on their judgments because I don't know the file. The problems of justice are certainly the greatest, and it is also difficult for this country to be followed in court disputes. We have over 800 valid laws. Every year, we are amending or adopting an additional 100, we know 300 crimes, and we know more than 10,000 crimes. And now imagine in what maze of standardisation the courts must function, each individual, judge and not simple tasks. And we must insist that we provide the courts with the right conditions to ensure a certain degree of authority and autonomy that they are doing, and of course that we will be critical all the time and also demand responsibility. Maybe there's an anecdote to the end, which may actually say something about saying that there are better courts everywhere, we have the worst courts. In fact, we tend to talk about everything being the worst with us, but elsewhere, of course, it is significantly better. Case: An action has been brought against the European Court of Human Rights for an unreasonable trial because a Slovenian court has dealt with a case for 5 years. After 7 years, the European Court of Human Rights decided: The action is justified. In fact, Slovenian courts were judged in unreasonable terms because they had been tried for five years. It took 7 years for the European Court of Human Rights to do so. So let us be a little more proud of our institutions, be critical, be critical at home, and demand responsibility. These are the only courts, this is the only justice we have, and we keep our fingers crossed to make it work as it should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, whose position will be presented by Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! During this term of office of the National Assembly, we talked a lot about the state of justice. Whether justice in Slovenia has problems, whether we need a comprehensive reform of justice, or whether such a justice regime as we have ensures the highest standards of the rule of law and justice. The opinions were, of course, as they are today, different. Some of you have argued that the judiciary does not need any change in order to ensure that the legislative branch of power has no right to deal with judicial matters. That all warnings about the failure of the judicial system are merely a result of disagreement with individual decisions of the judicial branch. But is everything really as right and good as it should be? In its Report on the review of the state of justice in the European Union, the European Commission notes that Slovenia, despite the largest number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants and despite the fourth highest budget for justice, is one of the Member States with the worst problems in justice. The OECD 2013 study notes that in Slovenia, judicial proceedings are long-term due mainly to the low productivity of judges, the inadequate detection of long-term or problematic cases and the poor distribution of responsibilities within the courts. The World Economic Forum estimates show that in Slovenia the inefficiency of the legal framework in dispute resolution and regulation has increased. While some of these reports deny that not all data are covered or that the right methodology has not been chosen, it remains undeniable that more and more real-life cases, cases where citizens and citizens have been unsuccessfully searching for their rights for years, when individuals abuse the system for their own benefit, and when it seems that some still remain safe before the time limit of justice and others do not, it triggers in the citizens a sense of inaction of the judicial system. Regrettably, the law would not be equal to justice, and unfortunately, there are many injustices within the judicial system. We've heard a lot of cases today. There was quite a point in substantiating one and the other points of view. And let me add another one that comes from my environment. We have heard from the judiciary of the past days that bankruptcy proceedings with us take so long because bankruptcy managers, especially in these times, cannot sell the property of bankruptcy. Is that absolutely true or is it true in all cases? In 2009, she went to the bankruptcy of Mura, the great Pomurski giant. A lot of real estate and other things ended up in bankruptcy. The bankruptcy manager was then assigned to sell this property from the bankruptcy and pay off the creditors. First of all, he pays off the debts he owes to the workers. Some of this bankruptcy has really sold out, and a lot of it's still unsold, not because there wouldn't be buyers. State institutions interested in purchasing property from bankruptcy were interested in moving their offices to vacant properties. They were interested in honest entrepreneurs who wanted to open their businesses there, but they all came across the same story, such or other excuses that led to the fact that the property was not sold in the end and the debts to workers were not settled today. The bankruptcy manager is still in bankruptcy and is still receiving bankruptcy awards. So much for the justice system. So far, practice has shown us that the justice system itself is not capable of expelling certain individuals or self-cleaning itself, so we have expected from the executive branch of the government, from Minister Plicanič, specific legal changes in this area. He started encouraging. At the end of 2012, he presented to us a comprehensive package of changes in the field of justice, from the foundations, changes in education, changes in the judicial exam to changes in concrete procedures. A handful of this was realized, and a large majority remained in the drawer somewhere. We hope that the next Minister of Justice, or Minister of Justice, will have a stand-up attitude and will be able to bring legislative changes through Parliament despite such or other pressures by the actors of the justice system. Among the areas which must experience the most recent changes for more successful and fairer justice would be those to which we have already warned in the Slovenian People's Party. A comprehensive reform of bankruptcy legislation that will not allow bank accounts of bankruptcy managers to be charged to creditors, in particular workers, and which will make it possible to continue the business process of the company's healthy core to the greatest extent possible. Alternative dispute resolution. The Courts are burdened each year with a large number of new cases and it is therefore important to create a framework that will promote alternative dispute resolution, mediation and arbitration, which will in particular increase the rate of resolution of cases in economic and labour disputes at lower costs than the judicial procedure. Actual effective confiscation of assets in cases of economic and other organised crime. Eliminating the bringing back of cases to a lower degree of retrial. The second step, if it decides to issue another, shall be deleted from the decision issued at the first stage and shall issue a new one. This would shorten the process of jurisdiction and relieve the courts of first instance. The transfer of most of the functions of the judicial investigation to the State Prosecutor's Office, thus deploring today's investigative judges who, following this amendment, could be more quickly and effectively judged on criminal matters. Change in the education programme of future lawyers towards strengthening critical thinking and greater emphasis on practical education. An open and public debate on the amendment of the judicial mandate, with the possibility of introducing a probationary mandate after the expiry of which, according to the professional criteria, would take into account the efficiency and expertise of the judge's work and thus be appropriate for the continuation of the judicial function. The justice system decides on the most basic elements of human life, about personal freedom, about individual property, about human dignity. Therefore, it must enjoy the full trust of citizens and develop the greatest measure of justice. And the same legal state, the same for all, the same right for all citizens will be one of the main priorities of the Slovenian People's Party in the coming mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives or representatives of the Ministry of Justice, honourable Members, honourable Members! In the last year, we discussed similar subjects three times in the National Assembly. Last June we held a debate on the state of justice, July on the subject of the state of democracy in Slovenia, and this February we discussed the state of affairs in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. Every time a request for an extraordinary meeting was made by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, and every time in the DeSUS Group, we expressed our fear that the sole purpose of these extraordinary meetings is simply to create opportunities for the greatest opposition party's own promotion. The feeling wasn't cheating on us. During and after the debate, the SDS Group has shown that they are not so concerned about the situation in the Slovenian judiciary. The Institute of Extraordinary Meetings has repeatedly been used to open ideological themes, foster hostility and foster pessimism among citizens. In the fact that the campaign has virtually begun, the same story is likely to happen again today. The results of the Eurobarometer survey show that only 24 per cent of citizens and citizens trust the justice system in Slovenia. Respected initiators of today’s extraordinary session, have you ever thought that you might be contributing to such a result yourself? And this by criticizing judges and prosecutors, by not admitting Slovenian courts, because of a judgment that is not in line with your expectations, by laying down responsibility and by your senseless accusation, which is not the end of the place. It is worth adding that the recent research carried out by the Supreme Court shows that people dealing with the court are much more satisfied with their work than the general public in media research. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that there are certain shortcomings in Slovenian justice, some of which are also unacceptable and require immediate action. However, the dissemination of policies on efficiency, impartiality and independence of justice is extremely inappropriate and dangerous. And the expression of political parties on this is an attempt to politicise the judiciary, which threatens the democratic and legal nature of our country. For this reason, we will not define ourselves in the DeSUS Group to specific cases exposed to material. We also do not want to put ourselves in the role of a lawyer of Slovenian justice, but some encouraging information is still to be highlighted. Today, for the first time in court, there are fewer than 100,000 pending cases, and the expected time of their resolution has been reduced to 7 months. Prosecutors reached convictions in 83% of the cases last year, with a 26% increase in prison sentences. The number of outstanding cases decreased by as much as 30% at the end of 2012. The numbers that speak of the number of judges and judicial staff per 100,000 inhabitants and the level of resources that our country is earmarking for the justice system compared to the average of the European Union remain alarming. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that Slovenian justice certainly needs certain changes, but above all it needs quality and effective legislation to ensure the well-being and equality of Slovenian citizens and that legislation does not change every time the ruling authority is replaced. Many times it turns out that the problem is in inconsistent and rapidly changing laws. As has already been said, in the last year we have been very busy in the state of Slovenian justice. Much less or virtually nothing we deal with politicians who need services from the Slovenian judiciary. Instead of sweeping away from their own thresholds, as true ancient human wisdom, some among us try to wash away guilt by maligning and demeaning others, whether it is judges, prosecutors, or the entire judiciary. Laying responsibility on others is always easier than looking in the mirror. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the courts, i.e. the judges, judge by the constitution and the law and are completely independent in their work. Therefore, in DeSUS, we estimate that this meeting is intended primarily to discredit the judiciary and judges, but all with the aim of promoting the SDS party in such an unacceptable manner before the national elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have another position, namely the New Slovenia Group. Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, co-workers of the Minister, colleague and fellow Members! Slovenian justice has been the target of criticism for years both of Slovenian politics and of the public, which is reflected in the extremely low level of citizens' confidence in the institutions of the rule of law. In a study designed for EU Member States, public confidence in Slovenian justice is the lowest among all countries. Even less than a quarter of Slovenian citizens are trusted in the institutions of the rule of law. And where is the reason why we cannot really talk about the rule of law in Slovenia right now? Justice in all its criticisms points to a parliament that adopts poor and unconstant legislation. However, the public, in particular the professional one, points out that legislation is quite appropriate and that we have the most problems with non-implementation of legislation, and that non-implementation of legislation is not or is not consistently sanctioned. For example, I can give corruption, which has been defined as a criminal offence in the Penal Code for many years and the law enforcement authorities do not prosecute this crime or in a very small percentage, and we have also received a warning or recommendation from this year's European Commission. This is the mission of justice and their responsibility. Let us just remember how long justice has not been lost in the pursuit of economic crime and how much pressure policy and the public needed to finally move things around. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are very critical of too slow work in the area of detection and prosecution of banking crime. In the banking system, this guy drilled a five billion-dollar hole that we covered with tax money. We are indeed very late in this area. We expect that the procedures for determining liability for this damage, with criminal and material liability in mind, will be given priority at least now in all institutions of Slovenian justice. We also expect that through appropriate procedures, funds that have been illegally or unjustifiably transferred from banks to accounts of various legal and natural persons, including to bank accounts abroad, will be reimbursed to the State budget. We are particularly critical of non-implementation of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin. This law shall apply and shall not be implemented. It has been two and a half years since the adoption of the law or since its entry into force for two years. And the results? Not a single court-martial. I emphasize, not a single court of law. We know who put the Slovenian economy on its knees. We know about the names of those responsible, who are in criminal proceedings and often even legally convicted, but all these perpetrators still have full bank accounts, even in bank oasis, they still own villas, yachts, weekends, expensive cars and could still list. In other countries, they know the perpetrators of crimes immediately, immediately seize and confiscate illegally acquired property and not in Slovenia. That's why we have the legal basis. Who is responsible for such a situation? We ask Christian Democrats about the responsibilities of specific names and names of state prosecutors and judges who clearly do not fulfil their obligations. And the answer must come from the judiciary itself, that is by the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court. Justice as an independent branch of government is itself responsible for its effective, timely and legitimate functioning. As an independent branch of government, it has its own control mechanisms in place from the point of view of legislation. These control mechanisms, however, are no longer functioning or functioning effectively enough, as justice alone is obviously not capable of sufficient self-reflection. And where do we see the solution? A smaller step towards greater control over the work of the courts and judges was taken last year with the novels of the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. What concrete results these two innovations will actually bring to the end of the year we do not know yet, but we will be able to verify these results at the end of the year. However, a second step towards improving the situation requires systemic change. In Novi Slovenija - Christian Democrats we are committed to preserving the permanent mandate of judges, because we believe that this is a civilizational acquisition that they have everywhere in Europe. However, we do not advocate an absolute permanent mandate, but we advocate effective supervision of judges and the imposition of sanctions against those judges who do not work in accordance with legal provisions and timeframes. We are also convinced that, due to a permanent mandate, a longer probationary period should be introduced before appointment to a permanent term. Those candidates who could not pass the probationary period would not be able to run for a permanent term. In this direction, we will support the constitutional proposals of the Christian Democrats, because we believe that the transition to a permanent mandate will only be possible for those candidates who, through their expertise and their work, will justify the presidency of the judge. And finally. Trust in the rule of law can only be restored to people if justice works in accordance with its mission. This is through the exercise of fairness in decision-making in concrete cases and by overcoming so-called legal formalism, by decision-making under the letter of law irrespective of the purpose of the regulation, which has taken a strong root in all post-communist countries, and in particular in Slovenia. In many cases, this legal formalism provided a legal framework for the protection of illegal acts by members of social elites. Justice will have to be restored as a fundamental value on which the decisions of the judicial authorities will be based, so that decisions are not only legal but also legitimate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Given that the order of the debaters has changed a little bit, I will read the first few reported. The word has magic. Katarina Hočevar, followed by Mrs Maria Plevčak, then Mr Jožef Horvat and Mag. Branko Grimes. Mag. Katarina Hochevar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The rules governing the most important relations in each society and the effectiveness of these rules should be ensured by the State or by the local community with its institutions. However, these basic rules are laid down in the Constitution and in laws, but more detailed in the sub-legislative acts and these basic rules are adopted and laid down in this national assembly. Therefore, when we speak or criticize the judiciary, at least half of these criticisms fly to this national assembly or to ourselves. I would like to point out that, if we are honest, Minister Pličanič is the first minister in the history of Slovenia who has not crouched into the same corner with the judicial branch of power, who has not blindly defended his department, but has poured pure wine and told Bob that everything does not "but" in justice as well. It is true that reforms or changes in justice have been undertaken by moderate steps, which is, in my opinion, correct for such a resort or for such a society. As we have already said, he began with the government's commitment to the judiciary – in fact, it was an undertaking to the Slovenian people – and we also adopted the Law on Courts and the novels of the Law on Judicial Service. As these will have an impact in practice, it seems to me that the evaluation is still premature at this point, but we must admit, also the data originally provided by the State Secretary suggest that the backlogs are decreasing, that the average duration of the cases is decreasing and that certain movements have been made in this area. Of course, these movements and the steps that Minister Pličanič has taken must be continued and needed in the future. Whenever two sides are involved or the court has to decide between two persons, two citizens, there is always talk about what is just, what is unfair. And, of course, it's not just about what's laid down in individual laws. What still needs to be done is, of course, efficiency itself and I see here a great need for so-called e-Justice. That the key to better governance in people we started talking in public administration already in 2003. The e-justice or the fact that the key to change is also in the judiciary, for example, even at European level, began when Austria chaired Europe and this was in 2006. That is why I think that what has been done in the field of public administration, that there is little delay in the judiciary and justice in Slovenia, also because we are a little behind on this and, of course, some changes are still needed in this area. This may also be due to the education system, because there are lawyers in the judicial, prosecution types — we say that crows do not exclude eyes – in other spheres, in other systems of society we have different educational profiles, and this is sometimes an incentive for some profile of individuals in which the segment is more drawn forward and the changes are easier. Nevertheless, I would conclude that there are three things that come once and for all. The sun, the moon, and the truth. And that is what our courts should be for, in order to get out or to make it difficult for the truth to come to the day in all the proceedings, in all the cases that the courts are considering. But I'm sure, and it's also my philosophy of life that comes on many occasions without judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u27	Thank you very much. He asked for the floor as a proposaler for Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Before, of course, in 15 minutes, I couldn't tell you everything I meant to say, so I'm going to do it now. I ended up there talking about cases of Slovenian justice, what's going on. And I'm going to try to back this up in individual situations, which, in my opinion, was wrong. Let me continue right here. On the committee, I said that in 1994 Slovenian justice did not respect the article that said that only those who did not violate human rights in their work in the past could be appointed for a permanent term. Mr Vladi, President of the Council of Justice, warned me or told me that 85 judges had since left the judiciary. This is the first such information that has been transmitted to me, but until now Mr Vladi has not sent anything that would materially prove it, so I will not believe him yet. But we can believe what happened in the National Assembly. In the National Assembly, Mr Maslesa and Mr Fischer were appointed to the highest judicial function, one in the court, one in the prosecution's organisation, even though in the previous regime they clearly violated human rights in their work, which means that they should not be appointed in judicial office. Mr Maslesha, as you know, participated in those killings at the border with Italy and verified them as an event, despite the fact that they were killings, while Mr Fischer tried a priest who put the cross on the scene of the post-war beatings, where even the elderly Resident went and Mr Fisher has not yet. Senior Judge Mateja Lužovec, rapporteur in the Patria case – let me remind you that, as colleague Cernač said, in the case of cats and cats suffering in Gorenjska, she believed that they were not the real perpetrators who killed the cats. However, she did not believe the police and criminals who seized the tools used to kill these cats and the dead cats — and that was not evidence. This is a reflection of Slovenian justice. Vesna Pavlich Pivk, The Council of Justice. Look, Mrs. Pivkova was now published in those famous pictures with a hat, a routine, and I don't know what. I've been warned by certain legal circles, by legal circles that this is a direct violation of the Constitution. Yes, of course it's a direct violation of the Constitution. The country, the Republic of Slovenia, has some other symbols. This lady, however, honors the symbols of a foreign country, a country that attacked Slovenia in 1991. And what happened? What happened to the lady? The Council of Justice has dealt with it. And the Council of Justice didn't say anything. He said the judge must be impartial in his work. Yeah, we know, it's in the code. Thank you, Mr. Wave! But you didn't do your duty. She should probably be punished in accordance with what judges can achieve, what kind of punishment. Mr. Ferlinc. Walking with Mr Cekuto, the defendant he's chasing. We heard on the board that they were supposed to be together for 20 seconds. Well, you see, the D.A.'s attorney is "sfulil," and people say he lied to it. Today in the Reporter you can read a completely different story from the man who took the photograph. Mrs Popoat asked the committee who secretly recorded Mr Ferrinc, because this is a crime, a secret recording. I asked her if the crime of clandestine recording was also the case when Janša was shot in court in Ljubljana when the service was performed. Mrs Popot with her left glasses has not yet been able to respond, but I hope it will be today. Vesna Bergant Rakočević, ladies and gentlemen. "Congratulations, Barbara, for your courage," she wrote on the day of judgment. And she compared the protestors who were outside with the North Koreans. This is an independent judiciary. This is an independent judiciary. Silvana Sparrow Arifin, rapporteur in the Patria case or whatever she was, Judge in the Patricia case. Yes, if her husband parades around Ljubljana with Jankovic's painting, I will believe in her independence if at least she parades at home with Janšev's picture. Oh, no! Don't paint me. I'm leaving Patrio to my colleagues. Someone was talking about the commitment to citizens that was signed last year – I think the representative of the Civil Gazette – and he said everything well, but he didn't say what was true. The commitment to citizens was signed on 4 June last year. The government committed itself to providing the judiciary with a million and a half extra money in 2013 and to provide 2.34 million additional money in 2014. She did, and the government did. But in that agreement, in the commitment of citizens – it is said that the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Maslesha, commits himself to the citizens, not to us and to the Minister, because it is appropriate for citizens, because this commitment is stronger – he signed the following: "The objective situation which the judiciary is to achieve with regard to the staffing conditions on Day 1. 6. 2014 is the total number of judges 927 or 45 per 100,000 inhabitants. Total number of judicial staff 3480, ratio 3.8." Now let us see what Mr Maslesha has done, which Mr Branisel has praised. On day 1. 4., this is now two months ago, it was the state of 962 judges, or if I shorten, Mr Maslesha's money provided by the Government, collapsed, increased the number of judicial staff above what he was allowed to commit to citizens, and the number of judges did not reduce to the target state, but left him almost where he was last year. What can we say about this? We can say that Mr Maslesha has cheated on the citizens. He cheated on the citizens. Let me go on with Mr. Gorchet's case. You remember well what was going on here. Mr Gorše was legally sentenced to 10 years in prison and some other proceedings against him. If I remind you of the joy of dancing, socializing, toasting, and not knowing what else is going on with the bankruptcy managers, you can't tell me they're not cooperating. Of course they're cooperating. Not only in private, at home, in gardens and apartments, but also in business. Of course, they cooperate for their own benefit, for the benefit of bankruptcy managers and for the detriment of citizens, and that is true. I will still describe this case of Mr. Gorchet. Ten. 3. Mr Gorše, together with the buyer Šušteršič, enters into a contract for the sale of HKS Sicure claims to natural persons, 83%. The gun at the expense of the bankruptcy debtor charges 8 million tolars at the time. 8. 12. 2006 Injury lodges a complaint against Goršet for suspicion of a crime of abuse of the official position. 2. Seven. 2007 the creditor committee submits another complaint. 11. 8. 2008 Prosecutor Jože Kozina – we know him, he's doing something else, he's doing a lot of work – submits, you won't believe, a request for an investigation. After one and a half years, he gets a decision to initiate an investigation. After one and a half years, he is given a decision to initiate an investigation which becomes legally binding. 13. 3. In 2012, after two and a half years of judicial investigation, the file was returned to the prosecution. 30. 5. 2012 The prosecution brought charges against the court and 17. 9. 2012 all objections shall be rejected, so 5. Ten. 2012 Minister Plitčanič even suspends the bankruptcy manager Goršet, who led – this must be Superman – 47 insolvency proceedings. 47 insolvency proceedings! Superman has to be. For your pocket. We still have to move on. 14. 11. 2012 is a pre-trial claim and so on and the man is convicted. The man is convicted. The media said he got 10 years. I'd say it's the first bankruptcy manager to go to jail. But look what happened to 9. 4. and what happened next. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 3. This It's a very famous date. Do you remember him? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 3. This The higher court in Ljubljana. There's a board hanging out at our client's. This is that notable date and notable judgments based on the indictments. Mr Goršet is currently being tried in the next Chamber in a higher court. You won't believe it, you'll be excused from all charges and released from prison. It's a legal matter. Who was the judge? Stanka Živič, Alijana Ravnik and Mitja Šinkovec issue a decision on the exemption, which is legally binding today. However, in this regard, the injured – I stress – remind me of the following. So they're both guilty in the first instance. In a higher court of law, the same material evidence – we are talking about material evidence, and on that day, he ordered so much money there — is no longer valid. The Supreme Court is going to a judgment of acquittal. But look, there's 13 judges working there. 13 judges. Can you imagine that only one lady has been elected as a judge, the one who went to parties with bankruptcy managers? If the court wanted to prove some impartiality, then certainly they would not have given this lady a case that she was co-opting with them, with the bankruptcy managers, and drank whiskey because we saw it in the pictures. No, among 13 judges, the case is assigned exactly to her. Why? Any farmer who can listen doesn't need to know how to read. The sentence of Gorset before the Court of First Instance was not indictable, but it was based on a multitude of evidence. The higher court denied all of this. This judgment, in my opinion - I emphasise - is based on the false testimony of the witnesses. The judge took into account the false testimony of the witnesses. Based on the forged signature and the non-existent facts, the injured claim. The Court has violated procedural law. You won't believe it. It didn't call for a hearing. It didn't call for a hearing. Where are we? In Burma or somewhere? There's been no public hearing with the D.A.'s office. They were wrong and sent somewhere else, not to the specialized prosecutor's office. So, he's doing a session without the D.A.'s office. Where are we? Even in South Africa, it was different during Mandela, not until today. The judgment has no facts, no judgment is based on anything. However, the injured say: It is no different from the blue envelope. There's no other way. This is the position of the victims. However, they warned me that right now, right now, in the court of Kohorje, because this gentleman is still in custody, in their opinion, the blue envelopes must be flying and they assured me that he would be forgiven, and I will remind you at some next extraordinary session of these words if I am still a Member. Look, this is the kind of case that Jan Zbez, the Constitutional Judge, was talking about. Such cases are discussed by Boštjan M. Zupančič. And you call it good for justice. Let's move on, just for a little while. 440 000 Euros of money awarded to the bankruptcy manager in Krška. In doing so, the judge forgot that he had already charged 160,000 euros. What happened? Nothing. The Supreme Court has found that 160,000 euros is too high, and nothing happens. Nothing. The judge is making progress, but the workers don't have a yogurt. Let me remind you of another case where political, judicial and bankruptcy is involved, there can be nothing else. In 2009, the prizes run to bankruptcy managers after months like this: 106 thousand, 81 thousand, 210 thousand, 555 thousand, 475 thousand. Then came Mr. Zalar, who said, "Wow! They have too many bankruptcy awards, and I'm going to limit it. I'll limit it. What do judges and bankruptcy managers do? They're paying a million hundred thousand dollars in 15 days of June. And in the eight working days of July, until the entry into force of the Zalar Action, 2 million 300 thousand, as much as the previous year. What happened? Nothing. Has anyone investigated these cases? No one's investigated these cases. Even if someone were to investigate them, who would judge? He's not here. It's a friend of the brand. I'm asking you nicely if this case really listens because I don't think anything like this can happen or, I don't know, which country could have such a trial that would follow the case that I'm about to tell you right now. In 2009, Stampa Friend, a 14-year-old minor. It's pretty normal for a guy like that to go through the Internet and get into porn. I'd say he's just a normal minor. What's he gonna find? She finds her psychologist on some pornographic site, and of course she sends it to a classmate, a friend, because we still have friends, we don't have teachers, and she tells her that he found this and that. At the same time, he sends this to a couple of friends, classmates. The psychologist says, "No, that's not true." It's a photomontage. I'm not gonna be "fucking" by a snotter. And what happens? Of course they're suing this guy. Prosecutor Branka Stanič in Novi Gorica is after him. The minor's been convicted. Judge Danica Kogoj condemns him. The higher court in Cyprus – not to say that I only mention names where there is a bad example, is also a good example, so I apologize to all the judges and prosecutors who work honestly, not to throw everyone in the same basket – – Jelka Brglez, Aleš Arh and Mara Turk are pardoning the minors, which is logical. Why? Because there was a forensic expert who said the photos weren't fake, they're not fake, but they're authentic, which means that this psychologist was in the society where the recordings were made. The court in Nova Gorica already had this, but it did not take that into account. There's a higher court in Cyprus. It's not over yet. In action, Branka Owen, a very well-known prosecutor, the head of the prosecutor's office in Gorica, "the scribe", would say Mr Jan Zobce. Constitutional Judge Jan Zobac to prosecutors and judges who can only read, says the scribes and not judges, because the judges, according to Boštjan M. Zupančič, use at least a farmer's mind in addition to the law and reading the letters. This lady, who pursued Robert Fojaker 11 and lost in every instance and destroyed his life, begins the persecution against his parents. Do you know what your parents did? The parents sent the decision of the court in Cyprus, with which the boy was forgiven, to the world of parents. And the world of the parents of the school wanted to prove that their son wasn't guilty. Mrs. Branka Owen starts a chase against her parents. You know why? In her opinion, parents should not disclose the personal data of the minor. Parents should not disclose personal details of a minor’s son. Whether they are exposed or protected by his purpose is beyond the capacity of the prosecutor and of course of the literature. Judge Jerney Kovaš's parents are forgiven, this time in the first degree. We'll find a reasonable judge. Prosecutor Branka Owen starts the prosecution and complains, just like Fojkar. So the parents should hide their son's personal information in a document, a judgment they sent to the parents' world. The Supreme Court in Cyprus shall refuse the Prosecutor again. Instead of asking the State Prosecutor’s Council about her abilities and dismissing her, of course, it is nothing, it is so clear that no. But the story isn't over yet. In May 2011, when the proceedings are under way in the first stage and not yet in the second stage, parents are writing to one of the Slovenian magazines, the Reporter magazine to publish the judgment: Please publish the story of our innocent son, nothing to blame, this was found by the court in Koper. Both parents sign, "please, announce." It's signed by the son, "please, release." And of course that happens, too, this story is published in the Reporter. And we find in Ljubljana Prosecutor Sonja Breznik, it looks like the same thing as the lady from Nova Gorica, who is suing the editor and the reporter of the magazine Reporter, if you published the data of the minor, you should not have. Isn't that an announcement in the role of protecting minors? That goes beyond the ability of the prosecution. This goes beyond the ability of Zhutski zbrobrija. And Judge Bullet Drinks punishes them. He's punishing me. And last week, the Supreme Court in Maribor – Breda Cerjak Fibbas, Zdenka Klarić and Slavica Gabrovec. The verdict is confirmed. The verdict is confirmed. It's a legal matter. Of course, the matter will go to the Supreme Court, the question is, what's going to be there, it's hard to say. But, look, this is such a typical case, because it's not about John Janša, because it's not about any influence when it comes to an unknown minor and their parents, whom the judicial branch of power wants to destroy on behalf of the nation. And nothing else. What would Jan Zubbec say and what would be said by Boštjan M. Zupančič, we know exactly, and I have quoted earlier. Now let us look at the following for the conclusion of this part of my performance. Look, I apologize to all those who are lawyers, some have gone out, and that's good. That's good, too. I know exactly that criminal justice, or the Ljubljana Faculty of Law, is basically meant for the judicial branch of power or for the personnel that go to the courts – the Maribor more economic, the New York more international, but let's look at Ljubljana. Look, he's in Ljubljana's Law School from college to now, when he's 90, Mr. Ljubo Bavcon. Like Dr. Ljubo Bavcon. He taught generations and generations of lawyers. You'll find it hard to find a judge in court, you'll find it hard to find a prosecutor, except for these really recent cases, and you'll have to do a lecture with them, so well-deserved, for money, not for free. He's a lecturer there for all these people. He wrote in the previous system that criminal law is a means of dealing with communism. More to the point, he said in the general part of his 1978 textbook: "Penal law is first of all a means of protecting the existing regime." So socialism, if you want, and communism. "In this sense, criminal law is a means of bullying and of systematically fighting against a certain part of the population, "that I do not do wrong to Dr. Bavcon, this piece was copied by Lenin, but continues, "that is to fight against a class which, because of its differing views, resists the integrity of the existing social regime and its constituent parts." So what did he say? Let's translate into Slovenian. Criminal justice is a means of protecting communism, criminal law is a means of combating those who oppose communism. And he wrote something else in one of the fat books that I was now looking at on Saturday and Sunday, 1987, Kazen Law, General Part, page 29. "In our social situation, criminal law must be in line with the essential characteristics of social and state regulation, and democratic socialism is being claimed." Nice, isn't it? Now, let us put this once again in Slovenian, which is understandable to people. Criminal law must comply with the essential characteristics of communism. That's great. Look, I wouldn't mention this old gentleman if this gentleman were in a pension today if he was quiet and didn't say anything. But this gentleman is not quiet today. This gentleman has become an honorary citizen of Ljubljana. This gentleman is, of course, a justification for the verbal delinquency, which means that if you once said Down with the party! or something like that, followed by a prison sentence. He justified this and wrote the penal legislation of Yugoslavia. But that man doesn't blame him yet. Let's leave him alone, I'd say. No, he's picking up today. We have accurate media reports saying that he co-created the First Instance judgment of Patria. Now we can also read his expositions on how to write a judgment based on the Indicators. Yes, of course, Janez Janša is a class enemy for him and for the Slovenian judiciary. Let me also remind you that Igor Bavčar, France Bučar, Janez Janša, Jelko Kacin, Lojze Peterle and Dimitrij Rupel returned their medals in 1992 or 1993 in protest because they received Bavcon, who has the best credit for his independence. What's that? What bunker was he in? And Mr. Bavcon today? The media also called the leading Slovenian criminal lawyers, namely ten people, and asked them what their second degree judgment looked like in the Patria case. Of the nine people, one commented, that was Ljubo Bavcon, who said that the matter convinced him completely. That's great. To conclude, let me state another personal experience with him. In 1997, I was among the creators of the Police Act and I asked him at a meeting for his expert opinion on how to record undercover investigation measures or POMS in the Police Act, as we told them at that time, these are special methods and means, secret tracing, wiretapping and so on. He said to me, "Don't write anything in the law. Use them in accordance with the principle of proportionality." I did not have to believe that the Slovenian police could, in his opinion in 1997, listen, secretly follow and everything else, without a legal basis. That was the opinion of the High Commissioner. The Grand Chief. But this "superintendent" taught whole generations of people. Just for a little while, so I won't waste too much time. Look, Mr Kavticnik and Kociprov spoke the same way – I see they've gone home now – and they said it was an attack on justice, an insult to the judiciary and so on. I didn't insult any judge. I told you specifically that Mr Boštjan M. Zupančič, I hope you recognise him, said that Slovenian justice is a disaster. He said Slovenian justice was a disaster. I repeated the words after him. And you're saying it's good. Try to get this evidence together and send it to Dr. Boštian M. Zupančič, and convince him that it's not a disaster, that it's all right. Jan Zobbet, the Constitutional Judge, actually said he was communist. He didn't use the word communist, but he said he was powering himself from the past, operating on old samples and so on. If we simplify his speech, we can say it's communist. Now gather the evidence, send it to the Constitutional Court and to Mr. Zobac, and prove to him that he is wrong. And I believe him, and you don't know how you're gonna do it, because you respect the Constitutional Court, but you don't want to hear about it. Mr Brulc listed all the meetings of the National Assembly that we had at that time. He's very upset about taking pictures of Ferlinz. I suppose, I suppose painting Janša is an honorable act necessary for the country, isn't it? These are your double standards. Say it's wrong and I'll believe it. But don't say that Ferlinca can't be photographed, but Jansho can. It doesn't work together, does it? Mrs Kociprova spoke of Patria as being in the role of judgment and so on. Ladies and gentlemen on the left, the strategies on the left, the ones in the chocolate bar down there, the ones that the customers are doing, and I don't mean the ones that they're setting up now, I mean the ones that are glued together, I mean the former president of the country and the circle around him. In my opinion, the Patria case has failed a little. Why? 24 percent and that much said something. It's not the SDS issue, it's not the question of the party president, it's not some other question. If some of you thought and thought that the party would spill this act, the elections last week show otherwise and we no longer have to explain that the judgment is criminal and that it will fall, but people do not believe it. People don't believe your uncles and you and the judges. Mr Braniselj spoke of the criminal trial, the criminal offence of the criminal trial, which is indeed enshrined in the criminal code and that every citizen can go to court, the prosecution, the court, so enforce this path and achieve its right. Figo! That's not true. Dead letter on paper. One judgment alone is not on this subject. What kind of lawyers could tell you how this right can be achieved? It's unattainable. Once again, Mrs Porotat, I ask you to explain what is happening with Mr Janša's painting. Is this really an honorable act if you can't take a picture of Mr. Prosecutor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Maria Plevčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u30	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all of you! We expected today's session to be held as it is, and that the biggest opposition party will use the time before the elections to deal with Slovenian justice. I also believe that political interference with the work of Slovenian justice is unacceptable. This principle threatens the independence of the judiciary, which is a constitutional category and as such a prerequisite for the functioning of the rule of law. In our judiciary, there has been a marked improvement, as the European Commission also confirmed yesterday, stressing that Slovenia has made progress in improving the quality of the justice system and has reduced the number of outstanding cases, particularly in economic and civil law. In doing so, I would like to express my hope that the judiciary and the prosecution will continue in this direction and will not stop. There is more to be done. More than the situation in Slovenian justice, we should be concerned about corruption in our country. I wonder why the SDS Group has never submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting on this subject. The reason is probably obvious. In the last year, however, you have very much to say about the inefficiency and bias of Slovenian courts, but I am interested in what you have done or what measures you have taken to improve the situation. However, it is not a problem that has arisen over the past few months, but it has been pointed out by the public for years. You had the opportunity to make things right, shorten the backlogs, reduce the number of judges and judicial staff, increase the efficiency of the prosecution, and you did nothing. Will you take responsibility for your failure to act, knowing that it is the easiest fault to blame someone else? And today's debate sometimes really reminds me of an offended calibre.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The speaker, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, also took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u32	As I have foretold, I will answer each and every one of you. Mrs Plevčak, in all your commitment to the independence of justice, reply to Constitutional Judge Jan Zobc and reply to Mr Boštjan M. Zupančič. Otherwise, ask your president, Mr Karl Erjavac, for his irresponsibility. Yeah, it's hard to listen, so get out. Okay. In fact, Janez Janša’s government carried out a number of judicial cases between 2004 and 2008. Among other things, it has adopted, as you know, the Penal Code and introduced the crime mentioned by Mr Branislj. The second story is the integrity of justice reform. We can achieve a comprehensive reform of justice only through constitutional changes, and this has always been opposed by Desus. That is why you can take responsibility, Mrs Plevčak, in your purse and take it to Mr Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Justice! Instead of the introduction, I have to express my personal thoughts. I must say that yesterday and today – because we are talking about courts, justice, efficiency and so on – my thoughts and even more sincere, good wishes are directed at The Hague, to an arbitral tribunal where oral proceedings have begun to determine the procedure that will determine the state border between Slovenia and Croatia. Now, of course, is the moment when I want our team, which there represents the interests of Slovenia, a lot of courage, and in the end, we all want to see the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, that is to say the determination of the border between Slovenia and Croatia, one with which we will all be pleased that there will be no winner or loser. But it's just instead of an introduction. The findings of some colleagues and colleagues that this meeting is merely a pre-election show or a pre-election session, the debate in this direction and such findings are in fact irrelevant. It's an axiom, everything is always pre-eminent and everything is always acceptable, depending only on where you put yourself on the timeline. And if I stand in the timeline at this very moment of the session, of course, there are elections ahead of us, and there are elections behind us, and there is a fact that the future is on the right, and the past is on the left, whatever anyone understands. I must also raise a problem with the debate and challenge my colleague Maša Kociper, who has clearly stood up to the Constitutional Court and talked about the political orientation or the world-viewed direction of constitutional judges. Well, I'm going to say to the first person: who am I, a member of the National Assembly, to analyze the world-viewing direction of constitutional judges and determine the result 5-4, I don't know, for the benefit of who? But who am I to question Dr. Petrič's statements and his verbal link to the "wateriness of judgment"? I don't think that comes from a Member or a Member of Parliament, even less from a lawyer. The rule of law means the enforcement and enforcement of the law. The fact that no one is above the law means equality before the law, equality of respect for human rights, fair legal procedure, prohibition of abuse of power, prohibition of retroactivity and independent judiciary. Above all, this last condition is that the judiciary is impartial. We have cases, colleagues and colleagues to get that for a trial, a court hearing, a trial, a trial will not come until four, five, six, eight, 12 years from now. I say it's a judgment in 4, 8, 12 years that it's not a trial and not a trial. And we should think about such cases. Of course, I also do not want to trouble any judgment, but at least the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which is why I was so disturbed by the problem of the Kociprova colleague. The Constitutional Court, as the ultimate guardian of constitutionality, cannot act where it is most necessary – when it comes to abuse of power, abuse of a repressive apparatus, nothing can be done, because before cases come before the Constitutional Court, "democracy can whistle." That's what Judge Jan Zobsa, quoted earlier today, says. Sometimes it also seems that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not require amendments from Slovenian society. Perhaps a distasteful claim, but innovation means that our subsystems, education, education and education systems, and so on. I will not explain the graphs and tables that everyone can read and are also an integral part of the material sent to us by the European Commission in mid-March this year. But I don't think there are all the graphs and all the tables that speak for Slovenia. I agree that we have resolved some things well, that we have improved some things, but I cannot simply agree that we are in the second half, when we speak and analyse unresolved economic matters, that we are there somewhere, I think, in 17th place. I'd like to say we're somewhere of quality in the first quarter or maybe the first third. Speaking of the effectiveness of the justice system, I would like to point out that the most important components of an effective justice system are the quality, independence I have already talked about and efficiency. Well-functioning justice systems are an important structural condition on which the Member States of the European Union build policies of sustainable growth and social stability. Access to an effective justice system is a fundamental right in the core of European democracy and is enshrined in constitutional traditions common to all Member States. And my colleagues and colleagues, I have repeatedly recalled the top of the Slovenian economy, to 7. The top of the Slovenian economy on 14 November 2012, when the economy faced Slovenian politics, four demands were placed before the then government and the National Assembly. In the first place – for my notions unexpected and, on the other hand, logically, and I agree – it was a requirement of the rule of law. So the economy is still calling for the rule of law. And that's what politics requires. The rule of law means a reduction in judicial proceedings through the introduction of a management approach to the administration of courts. In this direction, Minister Plitcanic ordered reform of the judiciary, but, yes, I agree that thoughtful steps are needed, but also optimally fast, but not every five years one step. We're not going anywhere. Request, forward, Slovenian economy: improvement of payment discipline, rapid, efficient and transparent bankruptcy procedures, which are the rakrana of Slovenian society and, of course, also raising confidence in managers. Obviously, none of this happened. However, Mura’s second bankruptcy has already taken place, and this is what a colleague from Pomurje has talked about today. Workers who lost their jobs and lost their paid contributions to the pension register were again affected. The bankruptcy judge ended last month, has now issued a decision on the start of the AHA Mura bankruptcy and has appointed the bankruptcy manager, Steve Radovanović. This action ended the story of success, unfortunately, in quotations, revitalisation and revitalisation of companies owned by Mojca Lukančič and Nigel Buxton. The bankruptcy and the dismissal of about a thousand 200 workers today is a disaster for the region, as this means that more than one-fifth of the working Pomurs will be out of work. Yes, the registered unemployment rate has reached or exceeded the 20% limit. Any failure to work after bankruptcy has a sad story that is painful and needs to be understood. In the current economic situation of the region and the country as a whole, it is understandable that workers were willing to work and worked only for a minimum wage, without contributions paid. The crisis and the existence of an emergency were a reason, at least so some employees say, that they did not put pressure on the management and ownership of the company. Thus ended another tycoon story, the state money did not go into the right hands in 2011 under the then government. And when I talk about workers and when I talk about safety for workers, of course, I also need to talk on the other hand about employers' safety, family safety, child safety, consumer safety and so on and so forth. Who cares about our safety? Third branch, judicial branch of power. We have put security in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats have also laid as one of the foundations in the answers to the future, the answers, if implemented in the next term, will bring success to Slovenia. These answers are based on security, as stated, that means the rule of law. They are based on justice, as well as on the rule of law, and are based on freedom, also on the rule of law. This debate today is almost meaningful. I regret that the Committee on Justice has not adopted any decision, but we will say much today, not for this, but for the future government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Of course, the Justice Committee would be happy to adopt a decision, but the ruling majority, as a voter, overcame all arguments and warned the European Union. For today there was a multitude of rhetorical questions, why this meeting, a great deal of conjecture. Well, let's look at the latest EU report, which was published just these days on the website, which is the European Commission, which is the European government that published the Council of Europe's views, all the key bodies of the Union are said to be. When it comes to justice, what does he say? It recommends further shortening the duration of court proceedings at first instance in civil and economic cases, including cases under insolvency law, and the number of cases pending consideration, in particular in matters relating to enforcement and insolvency. This is a report from the European Commission, the latest, just a few ten hours old. Similarly, you could have read it last year, and even in recent years it has not been much different, a warning from the European Union, sooner or less discreet now public in the form of official reports, recommendations to the State what to do are only lined up. What's the point of the story? Slovenian justice as a separate branch of government does not meet European standards. This is a problem of two aspects: one is the question of human rights, if a person is not within a reasonable period of time within which the right in the court is not available, that it is also realized, then of course it is no right, it is a new violation of human rights. And on the other hand, this is an important development issue, because if procedures in the business world, which sometimes end up in court, are too long, nothing helps if, for example, one company goes bankrupt at this time, because it cannot recover its debtors, because it cannot achieve its right, some other solution, whatever, because the proceedings are taking forever, people stay on the road, a state without taxes, families without means of survival, of course the owners are running out of everything. This is not a legal system, this is something completely different and Europe reminds us of that. And he's been warning us about that for a long time. And she warned us just a few days ago, and everyone in the ruling coalition here today is moving around and wondering why some of us need such a meeting, because everything is idyllic, the sun is holy, and, by the way, there's a storm out there, and so on. That's about how these discussions go. How's that really working out? First, if we respond only to a few comments that have now been made because they are extremely unfounded; a lot of them shout, yes, they are now elections. But who abuses justice by dealing with political opponents? We have seen this in some regimes, something of which, you know, is probably still present in Slovenian justice. And I'm sure that no one on the democratic side has anything in common, and I'm not quite sure on the other hand. Bad news is a bad thing, so I think some people have now raised their voices like that. Two, which is the problem. When it comes to the fact that this is actually an independent branch of government, it should not even be discussed. You know, if we just read the textbooks of constitutional law that are down here in the basement, in the library – there I am usually very lonely myself in this House – and I can bring that book up, it is also in Slovenian, and there are more in English from foreign universities, including Harvard, if you want, you can read that the criterion of democracy of a country is that it is a criterion of the question of justice, and also of legal judgments. And all the judgments we discussed here today are already legally binding. This is said to be, and must be, if we are democratic, a subject of public controversy, either in the professional public, in the general public or, if you wish, in politics. It is a criterion of democracy under constitutional law for a single state. And those who object to this are simply not democrats or you do not understand what European values are. As with these legal judgments, some of these are the most interesting cases – and I will not repeat the things that my colleagues have listed that will be understandable to everyone – you can read the following things in the legal judgments of the Slovenian judiciary. For example, when JLA officers were acquitted, even though there were recordings of civilians living on during the war of independence, it was written in an explanation of the exoneration judgment, I quote: "JLA was not an enemy army until October 1991." Good morning! I just want to know who attacked us. The Hunting Society of Celovac, according to this court. Then I'm not surprised if he's criminalizing those who defended Slovenia. On the other hand, we can read this: "In the legal judgment of the Slovenian court, when someone sued another because he called him a reverend and he submitted to the court an original document with the original signature of this first person." Not only was he a member of the Udba, the secret totalitarian police of the communist regime, but he was even an officer, paid for, in this organization. The Council of Europe, the European Parliament, condemns all of Europe, especially in its resolutions, all the institutions condemn it. What did the court judge? It condemned the person who submitted the document, because, I quote, "in this court's view of democracy," and beware, this is a legal judgment, "you must not say to the drummer, because it can be offensive to him, it violates his human rights". But if the former systematically violated them there to the level of the seas and God knows all that the Uda has done, no one cares. And this is a judgment on behalf of the people. I'd like to know which people. But even more, the same courts issue a judgment a little later, which states that, say, SDS and members of SDS can muddy peacefully, because they must have thick skin, including with lies, because it is in the public interest, and that they must be prepared to bear it. That is to say, be careful if we translate this into Slovenian, according to the legal judgments of Slovenian courts, the offender is not allowed to say obstetrics, is a crime and a member of the SDS is allowed to compare with lies. And then before the law, we are all the same as in the Slovenian Constitution. Yeah, I'm sure the Earth is a flat plate, and at the end of the sea falls into the depths, somewhere down. That's right. By the way, if anyone thinks it's the same standard for everyone, let's take a look at Jankovic's judgment. When Jankovic sued, because someone just hinted at him in one of the media that he might be corrupt, he immediately received 9,000 euros in compensation, one, two, three. Are we going to say we're all the same before the law? Yeah, depending on the color. You know how Orwell said all animals are the same, it was written in the Animal Farm, only pigs are even more equal than other animals. That's how it works in practice. And as long as that is the case, this is not European comparable, we are reminded of this by the European community. Where's that coming from? Another interesting thing you don't talk about many times. This is a question of court fees, which are completely abnormally high. It has already been presented here how much money is spent from the Court's work budget. It has been released that court fees are now essentially a tool that prevents one part of people from coming to court normally. If that's true, in compensation claims. You know what's going on out there. Recently, a two-time doctor of science, one of the prominent Slovenian lawyers who deals specifically with social cases, introduced one of the legal judgments again – I will drop my name and last name because of the tragedy he describes, but you can check it out, I can also tell you which lawyer it is – said the case where someone married a very wealthy man, married a lady who had a daughter. He raped this daughter on his wedding night, on his honeymoon, and raped her until she was of age. She ended up in psychiatry, damaged mentally, injured physically, unable to have children. She has sued for compensation, in a normal European country, ladies and gentlemen, she would have received a million euros in compensation. How much do you think she got in Slovenia? A dozen of these sums, a third of that sum, 300,000 euros, yes, of course, 7,000 euros. With the costs and everything else, the lawyer worked, by the way, as far as I know, under the aid, that's all. If this is the rule of law and justice, then forgive me, but I am the pope. And by the way, all these cases the Justice Minister knows very well. Or the case where it seemed for a moment that we were becoming European comparable. On the Ptuj, doctors have derailed a person’s permanent health and cut off his leg because of pure negligence, and because of one cough, he was involved in some groundless investigations. And he sued, he was judged first-degree half a million euros in compensation, which would be European comparable. In the end, everything was abolished at the top, he received a few thousand euros in compensation, and that's all. At all costs, with all the mental pain, the destruction of his life. If this is European comparable, then look at what is happening in Germany and Austria and in Great Britain and wherever we like to compare. For these comparisons, ladies and gentlemen, were given here when the rise of the fees was justified. If the charges are such, ladies and gentlemen, then there must also be compensation in this amount. However, I do not say that all the blame is only on the judicial and judicial system, because even in Parliament, if, of course, the appropriate proposals were prepared by the Government, which, as said, knew these matters, I myself know, because I also talked about it with the Minister, said that she would arrange them, but never, because it is obviously not in the interest of anyone, and here is the problem that we have somehow regulated justice in the way that suits someone. And that is why, when you say why the call is made, because Europe is very clear to us, in nice words, yes, you have made some progress, that of course everything should be done and literally repeats exactly the same recommendations from last year, which are now public. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, you've made a lot of promises, but you've done practically nothing. Nothing happened in the field of justice, and it won't be for long. And because some of you said this was about the election. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you think will be going to the elections? The electoral system we have will repeat the old story that we've been witnessing to her all the time. People said the LDS was corrupt and thrown out of parliament, they elected Zares, they found that they got one and the same, they threw him out of parliament, they got Positive Slovenia, now they practically threw him out of parliament in Europe, and now they're predicting they're going to vote for Soltes and Cerar, and of course we're going to get the same corrupt LDS core back again. Because it really doesn't matter whether you vote for SD, or really, or Positive Slovenia, or Cerar, or Soltes, you always get the same. Because all of this is a transition left, it covers from the same and defends one and the same. And if you look at who was here today defending that justice is all in the best order, you will see that this is exactly the same group of people. From which it is very clear: Even if the elections change power, at least one branch of power will obviously remain firmly in the hands of the transition left, and this is the judicial branch of authority which should be neutral and which should have first and foremost as the objective of asserting the constitutional right to fully assert human rights, headed by the fact that we are all equal before the law. From the cases I have cited, I hope that it is clear to everyone that, unfortunately, this European criterion is not met at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, since this crowd of 13 Members and Members will probably not be told anything new, because we tell each other the same things over and over again, we usually begin by quoting Article 2 of the Constitution that Slovenia is a legal and social state. Why there is a social code in the Constitution, I said it was the United List that proposed this amendment to the Constitution. But what needs to be said, for example, has recently been established by the Committee for the Prevention of Judicial Abuse. A photograph of the Attorney General was published with a person who is in a fair trial, these are coincidences and we have no idea how many times to meet the situation in Slovenian justice. And when we read the reports from Europe, we read what suits us, and we do not read what is good to read, if we want to be right and if we want politicians and politicians to increase people's trust. 24% of people just trust politics, so many have come to elections, just as they are entrusted to the judiciary. We're all on the same page. And now we're talking about each other. What is growing is the rule of law, which are attributes. If a legislative branch is established, if it has adequate judicial protection, it is constitutionally and legislatively ensured if opportunities for regular and extraordinary remedies are introduced, if those resources are available and there is much more to be said. Social Democrats are committed to strengthening the rule of law. The rule of law cannot be strengthened by overregulation, but by the quality of legal acts. How we accept them and how we listen to the recommendations, whether it's the Law and Legal Service or the legal profession, is a story for ourselves and I wouldn't be talking about it right now. But, look, if we quote the Council's recommendations on Slovenia's 2014 National Reform Programme and the Council's opinion on Slovenia's 2014 stability programme, then you can read on page 6 below item 17: "Slovenia has made some progress in improving the quality of the justice system and reducing the number of unsolved cases. The reform of the conduct of judicial proceedings in the field of economic and civil law has improved the functioning of the judicial system. Recent positive trends in civil and commercial proceedings have been maintained." I haven't heard that before. And if you then read the working paper of the Commission services, this is a document prepared for the Council's recommendations, you will read on page 31, where the speeches on this, in the chapter Modernisation of Public Administration, in the subsection of the More Effective Court, "In increasing the effectiveness of the judicial system, some progress has been made. The reform of the conduct of judicial proceedings in the field of economic and civil law has improved the functioning of the judicial system, but judicial proceedings are still lengthy. Recent positive trends in civil and commercial proceedings have been maintained. The time required for the issue of a judgment was reduced from 431 days in 2010 to 348 days in 2013. The number of pending pending cases decreased by 17 %. In 2012 and 2013, the courts were mostly able to resolve more cases than they had received. Despite this progress, backlogs in enforcement remain high compared to other countries and the target set in the 2013 National Reform Programme has not been achieved. The current statistical methodology used to monitor enforcement cases in local courts does not show the exact state of the enforcement process." This is very important to me – however, the methodology is problematic. "The electronic system for the execution of authentic documents continued to enable the swift resolution of matters. In view of the 2014 National Reform Programme, amendments to enforcement legislation will be introduced to improve decision-making and efficiency." I read the whole paragraph so that it wouldn't come to anyone to think that I was just bragging. No, I've read everything, what appears to be improvements, and what appears to be shortcomings, and where the improvement has already been detected. However, it is very interesting that I have not heard anyone from the SDS who would say that in these recommendations it is recommended that Slovenia take effective measures to combat corruption by increasing transparency and accountability. Yes, because that is probably a fundamental problem because we are dealing with a judicial judgment that is linked to corruption. And that's the problem, probably the biggest of all. Now it would be good to draw attention to some things. Some legal experts were quoted here, statements to the left, to the right. I'm not going to run into names of those who were destined to make mistakes in their professional life, but I'm going to quote an interview with the Constitutional Court, which raises a number of very serious questions. If I consider the Constitutional Court to be the highest body protecting human rights, equality is one of the most important rights under the Constitution, and this equality is also gender equality. And if a constitutional judge in an interview claims that a court that is feminized is worse than a court that is not feminized, then I am justly concerned about what to think about the appearance of impartiality, that I am not even talking about impartiality, that some judges, who were so highly praised today, misogynists, have already been recorded in the media on several occasions. And the fact is, we are women's majority group in this country. And we also know a country that has similar problems with its former Prime Minister, who has also been convicted, and there this convicted president, the former President, has also claimed that the judges hate him. So sex is also essential in making decisions there. That's discriminating. Obvious discrimination. And how am I supposed to trust a constitutional court in which at least one of the constitutional judges is declared misogynistic? I allow the possibility that his answer followed the question raised, but his answer was made up of quotations or references to the experts themselves who point out that feminisation in court is harmful to the quality of the trial, because in socialism it was somehow understood that the judicial profession is relatively comfortable, unrequited but less paid. There was a division of work in the family, a husband was a lawyer, a pocket on a judge, a judicial profession allowed her time for children and a household, a husband cared for finances, and a wife for the family in a narrower sense. This, according to the author, because he refers to the author, led to the feminization of the judicial profession, which has been preserved until today. Feminisation is therefore a problem and feminisation is also a problem because the battle affects the quality of the trial and then refers to another expert who says that in countries where the judiciary enjoys high respect and reputation, that is, in countries with common law and in Germany, the share of judges is traditionally lower. On the other hand, for countries where the judicial profession is less valued, this is a Romance legal circle characterized by sexual balance or, in post-socialist countries, even a balance in favour of judges. Well, last time I read the opinion of someone who said that the length of proceedings is also related to feminization because the judges are in labor and I don't know how. I would like to draw attention to something about how women should be convinced, even in those cases where there were earlier talks when victims of violence were to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner, if the opinions of some eminent experts show that they believe that feminisation for the judiciary has caused something negative. I would say to such a constitutional court that I find it difficult to trust even after the family code did not want to express itself on the content and what would be the consequences if the family code was rejected at the referendum, but decided only on some formal laws. I was first signed under a constitutionality requirement under the law on fertilization with biomedical assistance. I have requested, together with other signatories and signatories, that the constitutionality of this law be assessed as a matter of priority. The only thing the Constitutional Court has done so far since last March was to refuse a priority hearing. But that's what you should say. I believe, however, that it is embarrassing to note that Slovenian society is traditional and that some things cannot be said because traditional values are different. So, traditional values yes, some other values that point to democracy, to humanity, not non-discrimination, to zero tolerance to a variety of treatment – these are not important European values. Of course, it's very upsetting. And after the Constitutional Court has also received a communication from the European Court of Human Rights when it has ruled otherwise, as the Constitutional Court has ruled in respect of the protection of the rights of policies in a judgment, however, it believes that European standards and European values are slightly different from ours and that those who refer to European values forget that Slovenia has taken over the European acquis. To me, the debate at a level that I have to listen to by respected colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party seems totally inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Reploco wanted a mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u40	Thank you. It is very interesting when someone reads the entire introduction while the recommendations are essential. For if it had not been for recommendations, Slovenia would not have found anything very respectable in society and, above all, failed European countries at all. And in these recommendations, Mrs: "... further shorten the duration of trials at first instance in civil economic cases." In particular, it also points to economic affairs and problems. That's the point. We are still very far from European standards. Procedures are still incomparably longer than those of the most developed European countries. And when it's debated, it begins, as it has been done now, to talk about something that isn't even the subject of what we've given here as a content for discussion, but it's dealing with something that someone has said somewhere, and it's not the subject today. Why? Because everything mixes up, just as the notion of independence and irresponsibility is confused. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary will then have the reputation and the reputation it should have when it is equal to independence with responsibility, not to declare irresponsibility independent. Many of my colleagues are convinced that it is crucial that we abolish the permanent mandate. I am not so sure, it is one of the good mechanisms, but I think that it would be much more important than anything else, that we should immediately and fully erase the concept of immunity from the Slovenian Constitution, start, of course, with ourselves, for Members, and then completely abolish it for the entire justice system, so that everyone would be fully, even compensation, as in Austria, Germany, also responsible for the possible abuse of justice. I firmly believe that suddenly the efficiency would be greatly increased and that suddenly there would be no more very strange judgments, but there are still many things waiting for us there. I've already mentioned one of them. We are very likely to witness again some rotation of one and the same in the next elections, because Slovenia bloodyly needs a change in the electoral system. Without a change in the electoral system, the majority electoral system, when there's a clear picture, not because it rewards someone or not, but because there's a clear picture, it's never going anywhere again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u41	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Potrat has escaped from me, so I ask the expert to inform her of my performance and of my questions that I will ask. We have teachers, and she is also a teacher, usually made criteria and criteria by which we evaluate students, students, students. In short, whether students, students, students, anyone, left, right and so on, it can't be any criterion, it can't be any criteria, but it can only be objectively set criteria. Now, Mrs. Majdo Potrata, I ask the following questions. In 2009, I criticised the Constitutional Court's decision, a decision of the Constitutional Court concerning a referendum on legal tariffs. That's when Mrs Kresalova attacked me that I had to step down, Mr. Saiovic, and that he was sitting there somewhere in the middle, and that he was not worthy of democracy and so on. Mrs Majda Pótt then nodded at first so that I was afraid that her glasses would fall down, then she went on and on against me, saying, "The decision of the Constitutional Court must not be commented on, but should be respected." I ask Mrs Majdo Potrata why, in 2011, when her colleague Luka Juri, in the event of a decision by the Constitutional Court on the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran, said: "This is a coup. This is a court-martial of the Constitutional Court." Those are his words. Mrs. Majda Potrat was nodding, her glasses almost fell off again. I'm asking her what criteria she used. Today, of course, he is talking again about the fact that he cannot trust the Constitutional Court, he cannot trust the Constitutional Court in particular because one of the Constitutional Judges said that and that. Now, she has asked me to respect this decision so that I cannot even talk about it, and she says today that she does not trust the Constitutional Court. And she approved of Luke Yuri's words that it was a coup d'état in the case of the Ankaran Congregation. Mrs. Potrata, please tell me what criteria you have or what criteria you are using. I use the same for everyone. I further ask you, Mrs Potrata, because she is disturbed by Mr Ferlinz's painting. Secret tape is supposed to be a crime. I ask her what the secret recording of Janez Janša in court in Ljubljana is like. Whether this conviction is also a valuable act, it is also a suspicion of a crime or perhaps this courageous act required by Slovenia. In short, let me answer that. Of course, she talked about, she read a few things, you see, this is called Mr Jan Zobbe zbrobly, because you can read everything you want through the system of literature, but you can also read that all legal means are available to Slovenian citizens. That's nice, that's right, and that's democratic. But these are the letters in the law or the stop. The truth is not such, so the constitutional judge says that there is still something right in addition to reading the Scriptures, but above all a healthy farmer’s mind. This will not help Mrs Potter if she only reads, but it would be good for her to have a healthy farmer's mind. Let me continue with the following examples – but these emails keep coming to me – some lady from Rogaška Slatine, Mrs Leljakova, I hope she won't mind me, we know, became homeless last week, along with her family. 20 years ago, however, one of the most wealthy or one of the most wealthy families in Rogaška Slatina, who bought one hotel, and after 20 years, the court mill was crushed by being on the road today. I know half of her story, but half of it doesn't, and I'm gonna learn with that half of the story. Mrs Plevčakova spoke earlier about the responsibility of the government of Janez Janša, who was in power for 4 years plus one year now. Once again, the reform of the judiciary requires a constitutional majority. Desus was always against it. And she's asking me what we've done with Janez Janša at the head of 2004-2008, which is why I'm returning this question. What did they do in Desus with Karl Erjavc, who is already in the government more than Janez Drnovšek, for a long time than the late Drnovšek? In fact, Karl Erjavec is moving from one government to another, I don't know which minister he hasn't been before, the memory doesn't carry me that far, it's all been, even the secretary of state in justice. I therefore ask her what her client has done with him to the President of Erjavac for 14 years, and the Secretary of State has also been on trial. My answer is nothing. Look, one more case, because cases are cases and it's very good that we're not talking about cases. You know exactly the work of Mr Roman Leljak, he in many books, in public footsteps and so on revealed the work of Mr Gorenc and Mr Zemlaric when they were chief of Udba, one in Ljubljana, and one in Belgrade, and Mr Hansi. Mr. Hanzi is that secret agent of the Yugoslav Judgment who was changing how many passports were published, who changed the names that literally fucked up when Martinović was killed in Celovec and they said that he had become Flora because someone who was a florist was killed. [[…]] You know, these three gentlemen, now I have to tell the Slovenian judiciary the following: What have you done to this day? What has Slovenian justice done to this day? What about the grave of the deceased? Nothing. But that's why it's happening on the other side. Look, with Mr. Hansie, the Grounder and the Gorence, it's obvious what's going on with Ribič, Mitja Rybičič. They're protecting him. But it's happening at another stop, you won't believe it. Mrs Hansi, Mr. Eartheric and Mr. Gorenc have been charged with insulting charges. I have received some documentation on e-mail, which is pretty bad, but a quick look at this documentation shows, namely, Mr Leljak's lawyers have complained, and the decision to reject the complaint states that Mr Zemljarič has proved convincingly that he has nothing to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens, if this is it is not justice, then it is not justice anymore. If someone who, according to official information, ran the State Security Service, one in Belgrade here has proven convincingly that he has nothing to do with it, it is the same as me saying to the court that I have nothing to do with my son. How can I deny it? How? That's amazing! But look, ladies and gentlemen, our law, as it is, our judiciary, as it is, but still, I take it back to someone who has told me this and says, "naturally the right thing always and finally put things in the right place." Of course, the law, that is, the laws of nature, the electoral rights of the people in this Parliament, will also put 60 Members in this Parliament who will carry out judicial reform, first the constitution and then the legislation in the field of justice. Slovenia deserves justice as much as the modern countries of Western Europe do. Slovenia does not need a communist justice that is not justice, Slovenia simply does not need it. This was justified by others, not by me, but mainly by legal experts, who said that Slovenian justice was operating under a system that had been previously and that all thought patterns had been drawn forward and that Slovenian justice today is politically controlled by the Slovenian political left. This was written by Constitutional Judge Jan Zobseb, and I don't need to talk about it. Slovenian citizens must only learn this and send 60 people to this National Assembly to operate immediately. There is no longer a possibility with penicillins, aspirin and similar matters, an operating knife called constitutional and legislative change is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Aljoša Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The manipulations and tended conclusions that we are witnessing again today both in the material and in the debate have a very clear purpose, this is the discreditation of the courts. Such manipulations and insinuations have already been so numerous in this mandate that in some ways we have become accustomed to them and somehow they do not seem particularly problematic to us. Such a state, dear colleagues and colleagues, is very dangerous. How can we expect to be able to respect the rule of law and court decisions as a society if the largest parliamentary party uses its position to discredit the courts? In doing so, her leader openly disregards judgment. At the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we are convinced that Parliamentary democracy and any parliament that gives anything to itself is quite shameful to use a single judgment for parliamentary material and to make general and tendency recommendations with a view to countering judgment itself. By requiring us to speak on a case-by-case basis, the applicant exerts direct pressure on the independence of the court. Members of the SDS not only try to discredit justice by such conduct, but mainly discredit the National Assembly, because the function of the National Assembly is not to accept judgments, but rather to adopt laws. However, the judgments are handed down by the courts. Thus, it is not a coincidence that the applicant, as one of the reasons, cites the mistrust of citizens and citizens in the rule of law and the courts and prepares the whole material in such a way as to undermine confidence and create the impression that everything is wrong in the judiciary and that the judiciary is not to be trusted, thus also on the individual judgment. And we all know what judgment this is flying on. If we examine the material presented for today's session and compare it with the data and facts that the Justice Committee itself has brought to our attention by the representatives of the judiciary, we can find that the applicant has silenced those data because the judiciary is not in such a bad light, and the fact is that the situation is improving and it is not true that people are losing confidence in the judiciary. Just as the courts are becoming more effective and at the same time there are reprehensible convictions of known people, it is by doing so that we regain confidence in the judiciary. People have seen that our society is no longer untouchable. Thus, Mr Gorenak's thesis is that today's meeting is not intended to undermine the judgment in the case of Patrio, a mere diversion. You'll find it hard to convince me otherwise. Just in order to undermine this judgment, you requested today's reference. You also explicitly wrote that on page 19 of your paper, which says, quote, "The case of Patria is a mounted trial." So your only goal today is to confirm this thesis. I'm not doing this, and I can't participate. Your candidate for President of the European Commission is well aware of this and does not define them in relation to the judgments and above all does not comment on them. I suggest you consider if he's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u45	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u46	Mr Jerič, "Slovenian justice is a disaster," said Mr Boštjan M. Zupančič. Now, if you're smarter than Bostian M. Mayor, I don't know, I won't judge. But I'd ask if you'd tell me once, because I've thought about you on the board the last time, but I couldn't if you'd tell me something. Who's writing your speeches? By the way, you read them. And I'm curious who's writing them, because I'd argue with him, but I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jerič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u48	You may not believe it, but you're confronting him right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Sonja Ramšak, Dr Ljubica Jelusič, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, mag. Ivan Vogrin, Mrs Eva Irgle. Here you go, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! On the committee, I have already mentioned many things about what does not hold in justice or where those fundamental mistakes are, that people no longer trust in a just and legal state, and of course some Members and Members of Parliament, who blindly believe that justice, in our judiciary, is all great, ideal, even though we are reminded of it by Europe and also by prominent lawyers – one of them was just quoted by colleague Gorenak. And I'm going to touch another constitutional lawyer, Dr. Andraz Teršk, and his statement. In fact, in one of his professional records he wrote: "To raise the quality of the rule of law and to protect human dignity, we no longer need graduate lawyers, legal professions, lawyers and notaries, legal advisers, legal rules, even more textually long-term and in writing detailed legal provisions, but we need to change the way of thinking about law and through law or the dominant legal opinion as such. By changing this way of thinking, it is necessary to change the process of legal education, legislation, interpretation of law, legal reasoning and legal practice. And social practices need to be changed. We should ensure the substantive quality of the rule of law, which means the establishment of the rule of law as the rule of expertise, reason, living logic, ethics and justice." And, dear colleagues and colleagues who disagree with this meeting, I hope that you will ever read any more expert opinions and learn about the mistakes of our justice. Now, let me go back to one of the cases that was also dealt with at the committee meeting, and this is the painting material from which Attorney General Ferlinc met and walked with Mr Cekuto. In fact, the government took Ferlins to the dam. And so the State Prosecutor's Office, although I have not addressed my question of the Member State, does what is evident to the legislator or to us, Members and Members of Parliament, that we must not criticize the work or the irregularities and omissions of the rule of law and the rule of law. And in response to my question, which, of course, I have not yet received, the Government actually criticises the fact that the Member has allowed herself to ask the question. And what is even more inappropriate is that even the Government writes that "even in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, pre-creditation of judicial officials is not appropriate in a democratic and legal country. In the case of justified evidence, appropriate measures must certainly be taken, and until then public function holders and authorities should refrain from unduly discrediting." And, distinguished representative of the Government, I would like to ask you to show me in the text of my question, where in one word I discredited Mr Ferlinz's official or state prosecutor. Correctly and very explicitly, I asked two questions: "Are you familiar, Minister, with this event, is it the walk of Ferrinca and Cekuta?" And secondly: "How will you act if it turns out that the association of the state prosecutor with Juret Cekuta, convicted in the case of Patria 2, is contrary to the prosecutor's law or will you demand his dismissal?" And the D.A. says I demand his release, which is not true! This is an obvious lie and a discreditation of a member of the National Assembly! And who here, by the Members and Members, stood up for the protection of the Member and the legislative branch of authority? No one in this room! Nor do I expect, because the way you are discussing today, when you think that everything in this country counts, in fact, citizens and citizens are alerting you to errors in justice. I will go back to some cases that I have also highlighted on the committee. And in one case - yesterday even this lady stopped by my office and gave even more detailed explanations as to what was going on with her. He's been searching for his right in our courts for 10 years. For 10 years justice has been made a fool of her, lawyers, judges, prosecutors. What's happening to her? In fact, because of the conflict of interest in her case, she demanded that one of her lawyers be expelled, but because she saw that without her knowledge, even though she was her legal representative, she had legally represented the false bankruptcy of her company, where someone else was also a member. And what happened? The judge said publicly that she would be entitled to legal aid free of charge because she had allowed herself to request another lawyer, even though this lawyer in this bankruptcy had to be eliminated himself. Is this a just and legal state? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And when you condemn the Slovenian Democratic Party, I am convinced that I regret that you do not understand what our citizens and citizens are experiencing. We have been chosen from their side to take care of their protection of human rights, and we must be reminded of the irregularities in justice not with the aim of discrediting, but that our justice will begin to behave as it should be. However, it is not that the parties in the proceedings before the judges will be despised and so on. These are things, and that is also why probably the judiciary or judges do not allow the recording of judicial proceedings because the public would have an insight into their conduct in the courts in specific cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u52	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings for everyone, including the secretary of state! I would first, contrary to some of my colleagues and colleagues, find that I am glad, in my own way, that we have a debate today on justice, in which, therefore, this debate is not the central issue of justice as such, but only and above all one case dealing with this justice. This case is also a good starting point for many debates. However, I would like to commend my colleagues from the opposition or from the SDS, because both the opposition party and the opposition party are making demands for extraordinary meetings and in fact taking care of some dynamics of the National Assembly, it is also appropriate to commend those of your kind who closely monitor this meeting and monitor or record with tweets at 24ur.com all the wisdom expressed in this debate today. There has been a lot of talk today on the issues of reasons for the low reputation of justice and, in particular, of justice in the light of the Slovenian public, as well as in the eyes of the Slovenian political public. I think that the reasons for this low reputation should be sought probably partly in the functioning of the Slovenian judiciary, but also in large part in the way that the debate on justice or on the judicial branch of government is conducted in the other branch of government, that is in the legislative branch of the government. This is our long-standing, this is now the fifth extraordinary meeting in this reference, that is to say in two years, in 2013, three meetings on the subject of justice, one already in this year, the other will be held, that is to say, 5 meetings will be held on the subject of justice, after all, when the legislative branch of the authorities systematically and permanently discusses the weaknesses of the judiciary or of the judiciary, it is logical that this will slowly become known to the Slovenian public, and that it also responds to the assessment that the mistakes that are being discussed here over the entire period are directly affecting in some cases in ongoing trials, so that, consciously or when they are constantly alerted to these errors, they turn or feel that the Slovenian judiciary may be worse than the actual situation. I would like to draw attention to our awareness, now whether we are aware of this or not, that we must, as the legislative branch of power, be clear with ourselves whether we really think it is right to extend the limits of our powers. For those who have been on the side of the executive branch of power once and who have ever experienced the demands of the legislative branch after the extension of powers to the executive branch, my question is whether you have not felt at that time any bad feeling that Parliament or the national assembly wants to do something for you. We have a similar situation here, with this difference, of course, that the judicial branch of power cannot be directly confronted in the debate on the legislative branch of power, because it cannot be directly present here at this meeting, but, of course, it can defend its interests earlier on the working bodies. Before we embark on a project to extend the powers of the National Assembly to the field of justice, we need to ask ourselves if we are even aware of how we are interfering with the balance between different branches of government and what we are actually doing with it. I said earlier, at the beginning, that we had four meetings so far and that this is the fifth and that they are all encouraged by one trial. And what the fellow proposalr said is that we are inclined to read the written letters above all, and allow us to define ourselves on the basis of written letters or to work on the basis of certain, own conclusions. My conclusion is that the central problem of today's extraordinary session is essentially the case of Patria and not justice and its general effectiveness or bias, independence and so on. This is essentially a key case, which is interesting in the material that you have prepared in such a way that it seems that the Patria case is linked to only one convict. It would be right and fair for us to take a full look at the case of Patria, if we are talking about it. Thus, it would be correct to consider that part of this process experienced by former Defence Minister Erjavec and former Chief of General Staff Gutman when they were accused of trying to gain some special benefit by concluding an eight-wheeler agreement or by doing some great economic damage to the state. The lawsuit against them was not successful, so they were forgiven. It would also be right to say that it is not only the conviction of the President of the largest opposition party, but that they were in the same process in which one president of the opposition party was tried, in the process also Mr Zagozhen, who was expelled from the process for health reasons and later died. In this process, Mr Črnkovic was also the director of the company, and in this process, Brigadier Krković was also employed in the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces at the time of the creation of this project. And another part of the Patria case exists, and this is the process that Brigadier Zupan and Mr Cekuta are experiencing. It is said that the case of Patrie is an extensive matter, and it is not just one thing about the matter that you are writing about in this document. In this document on page 16, you also write about one fact, and you say that in 2006 a vehicle was selected by Patrie on the basis of a public call for tenders, i.e. chosen for the supply of armor for the Slovenian Army. I would like to warn you that here you are using a misinterpretation that is not in accordance with the facts. In the case of defence and confidential procurement, we do not know about the collection of tenders. It was a matter of collecting tenders, but by inviting companies with specific documentation to submit their tenders. This was not in any way public, so it was neither open to the Slovenian public nor to any other international public. The expression of public tendering suggests that there was some kind of invitation to tender. I would like to point out that in this case there was no call for tender or public tendering. Then you speak, you also write about the fact that in Finland the responsible persons who have been persecuted have been forgiven for the same established actual situation. As far as we could see from the media, people in Finland who were accused of bribery in the case of Patria in Slovenia in Croatia were forgiven for insufficient evidence, not because they were innocent. Appropriate evidence may still be gathered in the future, especially when we monitor the process or process in Croatia until the end and perhaps there will also be an adequate number of evidence in Croatia to restore the process against those responsible in Finland. In short, I would not be so sure that the procedure concerning Finland is already so simply completed. Mr. Mag. Montenegro has warned that this case is not only about – and this is also written in the material – the problematic functioning of justice in the event of a conviction by the President of the largest opposition party, but it has warned that this judgment is also related to one other action brought by the Systemic Technique against the State for the loss of business in the case of an eight-wheeler contract. I am also very aware of this, but I must say and point out one more thing, which perhaps you do not wish to raise so loudly, namely, this legal judgment is linked to the anti-corruption clause in the contract for the purchase of armoured vehicles for the Slovenian Army. This anti-corruption clause, however, states that in cases where it has been demonstrated legally that representatives of political parties or employees of the Ministry of Defence and other officials have been involved in any way in obtaining the promise of the prize or even receiving any award in receiving or forming this business, the contract is null and void. Now, here comes that thing, which I have to say is very painful and very concerned about and I think that there is a greater need for broad debate, I will not say public, but certainly decent extraordinary meetings and extensive discussions here in the Slovenian National Assembly, which is the question of what is the loss of eight-wheeled armored vehicles for the Slovenian Army, what is the nullity of this contract and what is the meaning of an unfinished contract on eight-wheelers or a contract with Patrio for the development of the Slovenian Army. I hope to say that for her it means this return 10 years ago in her development and for the total loss of the possibility of modernisation on the digital platform in the future. Even 30 vehicles could not solve this problem, but if, due to the legitimacy of this judgment that you have a problem with, the Slovenian Army loses the 30 more vehicles it has, then there will be a serious need to discuss here first the responsibility for who caused the obstacle to the development of the Slovenian Army and the literal end of its modernisation. And secondly, what will we do with the Slovenian defence system in the future within the framework of the Alliance if we make a key project aimed at modernising this system and aligning with the alliance through corruption when the project 8x8 was created. Of course, our debate today will not end today. Those who have not spoken as the proponents would like, in the coming days, we will still receive such correspondence from various fans of a particular political party, in which, of course, these correspondents will also have a serial number, something to say about how this work, in which the writers of these correspondence will be communicated to us, who disagree with the fact that one opposition leader is the best and what mafia coalition we are. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that when we conclude our mandate, the Slovenian public will not keep in mind the kind of debate and the kind of opportunities that have been lost, such as today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u53	Thank you very much. In front of you, Dr. Gorenak, a representative of the government has reported. Here you go, Mrs. Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to Mrs Ramšak's previous debate, I would like to make an explanation, namely, I would like to say that the Government's opinion on pages 16 and 17 does not provide an answer to your question. In case it's read like that, it's a little clumsyly written. Since the proposer of this extraordinary meeting specifically highlighted the case of the meeting of Mr Ferlinc and Mr Cekuta in his work, we have requested the Office of the Attorney General, in accordance with the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, to give an opinion on this matter. The U.S. Attorney's Office has given its position. We've summarized a piece of this point of view in the material. The complete material is published on the website. So here in the material is the position of the State Attorney's Office regarding a specific case. Your answer to the question you have, of course, addressed to the Minister, within the time limit, will be comprehensive, as our answers have always been, as I mentioned on Friday's Justice Committee. With regard to the last paragraph, i.e. the Government's views in this part concerning, for example, this meeting, if I may say so, it is a principled position that the Government rejects any advance discrediting of the officials of the judiciary. This is a principled position of the Government and not a possible value judgment on your parliamentary question. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelusich, you're really lucky you got your first letter. I got the last one five minutes ago. It's probably similar to the contents, but it's written by those supporters I saw in the Contingencies along with you, but you have to accept this, like I have to accept. It's nothing special, in my opinion, it just came in a few minutes ago. In fact, I would like to comment on your debate on how to extend our powers. Where did you get that idea? How do you get this idea that the National Assembly is extending its powers to the judiciary? Look, the National Assembly is the one who accepts the Constitution, the National Assembly is the one who adopts the laws. Even in that part and those laws that concern justice. And if we are discussing this today and we want to make some recommendations to the Government on what legislation to prepare in this area, I do not understand where you claim to extend our powers. By what logic can the court then send me a call to testify or I don't know what? Now I'll probably get one soon when the defendant writes. Why would they send this to me because I am a Member? Yes, of course they can send me because they exercise their jurisdiction of trial. We exercise our authority to adopt the Constitution and the laws. And I don't see any interference in us extending our powers. They can't be here, you say. He is never on the board, Mr President, but he is the Chief Prosecutor of State. I've never seen him before. When it comes time to appoint judges, there's someone sitting, even if he's sitting, like a lower official in a court of law. There's not even enough for the President of the Supreme Court to come here and say, "Yeah, today you're going to appoint five new judges. I'm here." Respect for the judges, if not for the other. No, he's not here. And we don't need him today if he's never here. We're not the biggest opposition, we're the biggest party. That's what I'm asking you to do if you're trying to figure out that the colloquial collapsed there. And one more thing I'd like to say is, very typical, I'm surprised at you lately, as I tried to understand you in 2011 and everything else, I have to say that I'm surprised today. There is also Cekuta sir in your vocabulary, but Krković is Krkovic. Look, let's give value equal. Let's be as valuable as anything. I can't understand it. The fact that there's a lack of evidence in Finland, yes, you're right. I agree. This was therefore a lack of evidence in Finland and therefore there was no conviction. But we didn't have any evidence, but the indictments were a judgment. And last but not least, you know well or look at the criminal code, in Finland it is not a crime, so-called a promise. It's not a crime at all. It's just us. And something else, the anti-corruption clause. Now it will be possible, yes, wonderfully, now some journalist will take you and say that for those I don't know how many, 100 million that Pavček should get, which he already has too many, probably the fault of Janez Janša, as he was guilty of that rain that had dried up a little while ago. People aren't stupid anymore. Not at all. There's only one more thing out of what you've been saying about responsibility. You're saying someone earlier talked about liability in court about how the system was established. This is also what Mrs Kociprova said the last time, and the Secretary of State, and I always hear how the system is established. Let's take a look at this case. It's best to give an example. Mrs Jelka Rozman led the bankruptcy proceedings conducted by Mr Gorša, and this is the one that is still in custody, which is said to be out soon. You won't believe it. She issued a decision six times to award a bankruptcy award to a bankruptcy manager who didn't have a legal basis. Six times the Supreme Court has fixed this. Well, then the time has come when the lady should be making progress. The Personal Council did not take this into account and issued a decision on progress. He complained to her president of the court or her superior that I would not be wrong — do you think it was over? No, ma'am, she's making progress. You see, that's the responsibility of justice. As long as this is the case, constitutional reforms that we accept and the legal reforms that we and not them adopt are necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u57	Thank you very much. You have a replica of Dr. Ljubica Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I, if you have listened well to Dr. Gorenak, have used the name brigade for Mr. Krkovich. Brigadier Krkovich. It's not the usual thing to say, Mr. Brigadier Krkovich. It is common when we use military acts to use them as they are. That's the first thing. Secondly, you used an interesting term, which is that you're surprised at how I speak. I would, if I were as rude as you, have said that for a long time I was surprised that you who are respected, including for me a personal security expert, can both personally insult people at a personal level in your deliberations, as you did with the mag. You're spending and with Mr. Jerič, and now you've tried with me. I wonder why you, Doctor of Science, are not worthy here in this debate to show that you are a scientist, an expert, capable man with immense experience in the field of the security and justice system. And you really don't have to disqualify us on a personal level, with some personal observations. Use your arguments in the way that your type of expert is treated as a person of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u60	Ma'am, Dr. Jelušičeva, when you list Mrs. Potrate's insults, I will answer that question. I asked Mrs. Potter questions. There were no insults. I asked her what her criteria were, what she had criteria, why it's like that one time, why it's different the other way around. There were no insults. There were no insults to you either. It's a confrontation of arguments. And I think I'm right. As far as Mr Jerič is concerned, I think I am right. And you may think you're right, but that doesn't mean that you or I insult you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A nice greeting, of course, to the representatives of the Ministry! Minister Llicanic knows who needs to be used in difficult situations – women can solve things better than men. So, I've always thought of him as a wise man and, of course, he confirmed it today. Look, let's take a look at this from the other side. The state consists of three systems or three branches of government: the legislative – parliament, the executive – the government and the courts or the courts. Let's take a look at how these three systems work. In fact, it can't happen, not even in any country has it happened that two systems work well and one bad or the other. They usually work very closely because they're also related. The legislative branch of power or parliament – how do we work? I'll give you the arguments as to how we don't work. At the 32nd extraordinary meeting in May 2013, we adopted a constitutional law to include a fiscal rule in the Constitution within 6 months. The government has pledged to propose a law to the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, from the adoption of the constitutional law to today it is 14 months. Neither the legislative branch of power nor the executive branch has done anything. I'm asking, how better is it to work, does the court work? In my opinion, it works nothing worse and nothing better than legislative and enforcement. Under the given conditions of general chaos, when Parliament does not work and the government does not work, it actually works phenomenally. Let's move on. Real estate law. Constitutional lawyers who now establish the parties participated in the real estate law are advisors to the National Assembly, a bunch of eminent persons. What did the Constitutional Court find? That he's completely unstoppable. How did the legislative branch of power do the work? So it's right that it's dissolved, because nothing works. What do you mean, "executive"? Same, same bad. This means that we today wonder how the judicial branch or justice system works, in fact, is just because no one, no institutions and individuals are able to face self-reflection and look, wait, let's stop pointing at others, because one finger goes back to us. Here's the source of all the problems. Colleagues and colleagues have explained, we have laws that are bad. The constant changes in laws, the multitude of laws that are rarely understood, three lawyers or five by their own interpretation, those that should be used in their work cannot because there are unclear provisions or laws to the law, two laws that deal with the same area, even the opposite. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think Slovenia is really waiting for a moment of self-reflection and sobriety. First of all, let's start working with ourselves in order, where we are, in the institution where we sit. I could quote, I still have a bunch of written cases when the National Assembly didn't adopt the laws that it should. We have several thousand lawsuits of civil servants and civil servants who will press charges because they are legally entitled to certain cases, and we simply ignore them, like all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Jerko Čehovin, Mr Franz Breznik and Mrs Alenka Jeraj will be discussed below. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u64	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! After these elections, the European People's Party, once again as the largest political formation in the European Parliament, undoubtedly means that it has a great deal of weight in giving different opinions, has adopted a resolution that expresses concern for the situation in Slovenia a long time ago. This European resolution touches not only on the economic situation but also on the situation of justice in our country. The resolution thus highlights the need for an impartial and independent judiciary and calls for the rapid adoption of effective lustration laws. However, so that no one here accidentally thinks that we want to take revenge on anyone in any way or other, I will not use the word lustration, but I will say that some constitutional reform of justice would be necessary. Unfortunately, we were unable to do so, even though Minister Plitsnik had made a lot of promises, and in the end, he did virtually nothing about these things. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been pointing out inefficiencies in justice for many years. We point to the longevity of bankruptcy and other procedures, the interplay of politics and justice, which, of course, results in politically motivated processes as well. We remind ourselves of the trial in unreasonable lengths of time. For many years, however, we have been alerting and also raising questions related to the duration of the judicial mandate. We also raise questions related to responsibility. And just when we are talking about responsibility, I would like to say that we have heard more than I hear two more times than I do myself, well, I would just like to say that Slovenia has three times more judges and prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants than some other members of the European Union. However, their effectiveness is significantly lower. However, there is virtually no responsibility when we have to respond to sanctions for errors. And here, let me tell you exactly what the numbers are saying. This analysis was carried out in 2006 and shows the following regarding sanctions imposed against judges. Germany, for example, carried out 51 sanctions against judges, Austria 26. Now you will probably ask how many such sanctions Slovenia has done. And the answer is only one. There's only one sanction. And you probably won't say that that means our judges are infallible or our prosecutors. This does not mean that our judges and prosecutors are infallible, but mainly that there is no sense of responsibility when mistakes occur in proceedings. And since there is no responsibility, judges protect each other, as practical examples show. That is why I, as President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, have already addressed a call to the public for information on the functioning of the judiciary. As you know, on the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we are very much engaged in the various roles sent by citizens and citizens to our Commission with complaints, initiatives, petitions and so on.And many of these initiatives or complaints indicate what should be done to ensure a greater rule of law and thus a fair country. Thus, the Commission also receives applications relating to the question of the functioning of the judiciary, to the question of the functioning of the courts, where investors' requirements for the introduction of professional supervision, such as the work of judges, are included. As has already been said, judges do not accept responsibility, but that there will be no mistake, as colleague Gorenak has explained on several occasions, certainly between judges and prosecutors, is the majority of those who do their work very well. But, of course, there have been such excruciating cases, which, of course, show that much needs to be improved in the area of justice. What is additional to what we get on the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities? People are, of course, dissatisfied with the longevity of the proceedings, because of their disagreement with the legal charges of the courts of appeal and the double criteria in the proceedings. In short, they also express opinions, which, for example, are also given through the annual reports of the Ombudsman, whether we are still actually a legal and thus also a just country, as enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, whether this exists only at some declaratory level or in fact this legal state exists. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we demand nothing but an effective judiciary, which will be fair for all, will be politically impartial and, above all, will respond to the mistakes made. As I have already said, the analysis shows precisely that no one takes responsibility for our mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Pojbich, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say that I am again disappointed today that the full position has always been abused by this meeting of the National Assembly for saying that this meeting is intended to clear up the problem, or Patricia's judgment, where the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party was convicted in the first and second stages. I must immediately make it clear that this meeting is intended to clarify the problems facing our citizens and citizens. The problem of being convicted of Janez Janša is not a problem of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but it is a problem of the judiciary of power to condemn a man on the basis of indicia, without any evidence. This is a problem of the judiciary; it is by no means a problem of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And keep going. I will quote one sentence or a short part of today's article 24KUL.si officer. This document was signed by the President of the Civil Initiative for the Family and Rights of Children, Aleš Primc, and he wrote: "The biggest problem of justice is not that in many of the most important situations there are former members of the Union of Communists, but that many of these are non-professional and biased. For 24 years we had hoped that justice would change, and now it is clear that it will not change on its own. If justice does not work, there is a disorder in the country controlled by those who are controlled by justice. Corruption prosecutors and risk-free judges can do whatever they want or do nothing. The tragedy of Slovenia is that the people set up by the party for judges and prosecutors in order to prosecute human rights are now judging human rights. The result for 24 years, when the party elite, under the pretext of the independence of the judiciary, blocks all changes, is a long wait for judicial justice, the poor justice is usually not found, friendly links between bankruptcy administrators, prosecutors, judges, economists of a dubious reputation, the release of criminals..." And so on and so forth. I wrote Aleš Primc. Then I will return to one very, very painful case that I experienced myself, so my mother experienced it. For 17 years, about 17 years, her employer fired her on sick leave. For 17 years she sought justice in Slovenian courts. Is this an honest branch of the judiciary? 17 years for such a banal case. Therefore, Slovenians and Slovenians are disappointed about the functioning of the judiciary because it is extremely irresponsible and unacceptable. If my mother were watching this right now, I would cry if someone once said it where we decide where we're adopting the legislation that the judicial branch of power is supposed to be working on. The National Assembly is the one that adopts the legislation. I also have to say that, we have a lot of good judges, I'm sure, even prosecutors, honest and so on, there's no problem, and I don't throw all of them in the same basket. There are many, however, who are politically set up, acting as political commissioners and adopting political judgments. And one such judgment was the judgment of John Janša. Without any proof! This is a disgraceful act! And that's what I hope to say. And this judgment will be overturned. If it is not abolished at the Constitutional Court in Slovenia, it will be abolished in Europe, believe me, because it is criminal, unfair and political. And one more thing. You will see how in some cases the court works very quickly, very actively and so on, and in some cases in no way. I've got three cases here. So it is written: "For ordinary citizens, executives are tearing the house down for a debt of 150 euros – the Vaskrsic case, while some debtors for 3 million euros are allowed to move the execution and move permanent residence to Cyprus in the meantime. When the debt is paid, the law enforcement authorities do nothing to verify the origin of the property – the case of Jura Jankovic." Then, the executor between the edges: "The single mother admits that it is necessary to have good connections in the court for the postponement of execution, with the words: Lady, you do not write Jankovic." As reported in the Slovenian News on 9. 11. 2011. Also: "The Court proposes to the President of the State pardon of a drug dealer who has been re-considered for sale after being medically unable to judge and pass the sentence – the Warren Pavlič case." The former President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Danilo Türk, then pardoned him. And so on and so forth. And we come up with an interesting case - Prosecutor Ferlinc. You know, we've talked about this a lot today. Even if there is no problem that he and Cekuta have been walking around Maribor, and if this is not morally controversial, which, in my opinion, is absolutely morally controversial because he was the prosecutor and he sued Cekuto. It's morally controversial for me. If it's not disputed for the judiciary, that's their problem. You know what's at stake here? Look what it says here: "Prosecutor Ferlinc put on a lie." So, after what was written here, Mr. Ferlinc lied. Is it not disputed for the judicial branch of power and for the prosecution that you have at the top of a lying prosecutor? He's lying on national television! That is what this article says. Why don't you read it? So put the mirror in front of you once and let yourself, please, start acting according to some rules! Don't shave us fools! We did not call this third meeting to discuss irrelevant matters here, but we are talking about because 75% of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia do not trust you. I told you before why she doesn't trust you – because my mom waited 17 years! And I'm asking you, please, that no one is using this session for these purposes, that Patria's problem is here. Of course it is, but the key problem is the functioning of the judiciary, fair and fair functioning, not political action.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm not gonna be accused of writing me speeches either, so I'm gonna keep my eyes open a little bit higher. When I assessed what I should say today, I actually realized that we were recycling the story that we had at least five times in the National Assembly, only with some new concrete judgments that happened at that time, some of them became legal. But when I also listened to the vocabulary and also to the views of some of the proponents, I found, even after the magnetogram that they were practically using, I went to look at my own magnetogram and they repeated things they said a few months ago. So at this time, nothing so shocking has happened, of course, except for one receptive judgment that I do not wish to have these pretensions to define, but on the other hand, I have no ambition to comment on legal judgments in any way in my life as a Member. Alone and in our own, at least my fellow Members, the Member of the Non-Aligned Members, we have never said that the situation in justice is ideal, optimal and we have warned ourselves about certain shortcomings, perhaps irregularities. However, differences in whether you point to the organisation of justice, the organisation of the prosecution and so on or other matters, if you comment on laws when they come to the National Assembly and we discuss them professionally. The other thing is that in this National Assembly, we have the ambition to discuss or comment or even dispute judgments that are legally binding. I don't think that's really our job, and with all those who disagree, I deeply agree. In doing so, of course, let me say that even as an economist, I am always assessing trends, not some emerging situation. And these trends over the past year, except perhaps in the field of lower judicial employment, are positive. These trends are positive, and this has finally been argued with some data, which means that the situation in this area is gradually improving. And we have to say hello to that. By not admitting it or even attacking it, it means that we are once again being caught up in other branches of power, which does not flow in our sense, as I said before. Well, in fact, if I analyze what is here, it is clear that some of the opinions the applicants disagree with, and some of them do not think could happen at all. Some of them should have happened, but they didn't. So it's never right. I also, of course, have a number of dumplings in my throat when I see, let's say, what kind of judgment, repulsive, but some things are also being corrected, say, by the very said Balkan warrior – yesterday the judgment began again, which means that the judiciary is only working. The Supreme Court has returned or reopened all evidence. But now I think we're under-emphasizing what we didn't do in the National Assembly. In particular, we have not done that we have an extremely complicated pre-trial procedure and a judicial investigation procedure. Here I think that only in due course should we change this practice and simplify and not just return to the final instance, that is to say, the trial itself. With the trial itself, I don't think we have much to do here. In short, it seems to me that it is one great attempt to impose our own thinking on the whole of politics and the social systems, by principle, who is not with us, is our enemy, is an advocate of communism, is a jugonostalgic, is a left fascist, is a cockatoo, coach, in short, a zombie. So that all those Members who have doubts about such action, then in the end you call on us to overlook, to correct ourselves and, if possible, to repent, because we do not believe in your truth and your idol. Indeed, all of this is becoming de facto indigestible, distasteful, but especially in most cases it is not argumentable. That is why I do not have any great conclusions from this debate today, but I can point out that we will have at least three more, four debates on the state of justice, with approximately the same arguments or arguments as today in the new reference. While I admit that you have a good condition, that you work well in this area, that you know this catastrophic situation, in the pronunciations, also show where it is not, that it is very difficult for you to go from your mouth when it is necessary to commend something. Once again, there are some data to say that the slight situation in justice is improving. This means that trends are positive and should, in fact, only be encouraged in some way, in a way, in order to make legislation more effective, they should also be given better tools in the hands of justice. Let me conclude, given that at least I'm the last discusser on our side. Probably, most likely, the situation is not as black as it appears, but it is true that what we all know has happened. At least as far as one Member is concerned, this is Mr Pojbič, I can say that he was honest here at least, and he actually said what it was about. Exactly what happened at that time, in short, must be challenged in all ways by a judicial judgment. And I don't think that's going to happen to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u69	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u70	Thank you. According to the forecast, Mr Chehovin, I need to assure you again that this is not a Patria matter. The Patria case is one of thousands or hundreds of thousands of problems of justice in Slovenia. The Patria thing is resounding, and I'm sure we can talk and call back when it falls. Then you'll be able to figure out that we were right. But it's not Patria, it's a hundred grand if you want, other cases in this country. I've only highlighted some. The latest one I have here, which I have just received, is held by seven senior judges in Ljubljana to discuss a case worth 2.84 euros. Are they all right? How much did they take for wages this time of year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Beznik. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u72	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Good-bye! I would like to somehow contradict some subjectivity of the debate and return to specific matters, which has led us to the idea that we should convene this meeting today. In fact, today's session is not as much a matter as it is a judicial system referred to by a foreign judge as it is a matter for human rights courts in Strasbourg to judge within a reasonable time. If public research is spoken, then the judicial system that issues judgments on behalf of people who are believed only in 24% of the cases is, of course, a concrete reason for us to convene such a meeting today. The other thing is, on my particular case, that most of the visits we have in the office of a Member can be said, people are talking about the judicial system, about the injustices. There are times when things may be inappropriate. It's some kind of subjectivity of a man who may lose some court dispute and thinks he's been wronged. Most of the time, however, it is absurd judicatures that show a lack of a strong bureaucratic role of judges and also of those judges who are in the highest judicial capacity. We are not talking so much about the local judges of the younger generation, we are talking mainly about the judgments of the higher courts, the Supreme Courts, we are talking about the products of the prosecutors, the chief prosecutors, the chief prosecutors, who are worrying. My colleague Gorenak mentioned today an example of a judge who, in her argument, resisted an argument on a certain opinion of a fortune teller in a case. Look, this is an absurd matter, this is a total absurd matter. So I also note the practice of the Council of Justice that it cannot clean up in the judicial system with bad representatives. The second is the ethical and moral contentious judges, who in their daily lives magnify the former totalitarian system, in which, I think, in the caselaw of the Constitutional Court of September 2011, such as the famous Titus Road, the Constitutional Court, all 9 constitutional judges in their caselaws specifically stated what was the essence of the former totalitarian regime, that it was specifically a non-democratic regime that had committed mass violations of human rights, fundamental freedoms. And look, on Saturday we had a public tribunal on the abuse of the judiciary in politically-mounted trials in Yugoslavia. Mr. C. Žekš, former Croatian President of Parliament, mentioned the 1951 Ranković report. From 1945 to 1951, in the former totalitarian regime, 686 thousand people were killed in Yugoslavia until 1951. We had over half a million political prisoners. In Slovenia we have discovered 620 mass graves. We've recently discovered a whole range of crimes of the former Udba, SDV, direct murder, human poisoning, bombing, tampering with evidence. In Germany alone, more than 22 cases of Udba murders have been opened, and in specific cases the Slovenian State Security Service has also been the most involved. And look, dear colleagues and colleagues, not a single epilogue in court. The whole of Slovenia is on one body and not one epilogue in court. Do you think the court is working? That justice works? Now imagine a whole series of victims of the former totalitarian regime, not only those victims who are victims of the judicial system today, but those who were, in particular, children, families of those killed, have been stigmatized their whole lives. Some fled abroad, living abroad more than half a million Slovenians, mostly because of the abnormal system we had. Look, the judges were totally destroyed after World War II. They were set up, totalitarian judges, I can call it. The case he was talking about, namely, Mr Bavcon's textbooks, his criminal law, the fact that criminal law has also directly combined with the criminal profession is something abnormal, something special but special in all totalitarian regimes. We also do not know the older lawyers today, who in the world from the former Eastern European countries would mean anything in the legal profession. We do not know lawyers, nor the Soviet Union, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and so on, who may be between the ages of 60 and 80, meaning anything in the legal profession. Otherwise, let's say in America, in law schools, judges are teaching, who have contributed greatly in their intellectual work to decisive court disputes, and here we are leaning. Today we are talking about culture in justice, we are talking about the climate in justice, which the government, which has not broken with the former totalitarian system, is talking about the mental patterns of these people. And with this debate we also give courage to younger judges, young prosecutors, young lawyers, to start having an open way to help some people understand their plight when they come into culture. When someone comes to the higher court, the Supreme Court, he sees Tito's picture in one of the cabinets. When certain judges in higher offices show themselves with totalitarian symbols, of which the Constitutional Court has spoken all. So there was no interruption. So a whole series of senior-generation judges were mentally destroyed, mentally destroyed through the legal system, through the former totalitarian regime. That's what we're talking about. Look, it's a real live thing. The right is not a letter on paper, my esteemed colleague. Legally, it's not just legal. Living legal matter is given by a judge with his broad field of reasoning. With his extensive knowledge of sociology, philosophy, history. This gives that emphasis, this makes the right interesting, it makes interesting for those who study legal entities to do the right thing. And in all your arguments, you perceive that all-powerful legal knowledge of one who created such a judicata. That's what we're talking about in this session today. That's what we're talking about. And we're talking about a process that should be faster. We can't tell each other, because now it's a little better, we can't talk about it, we can't identify with it. We can't be satisfied with that. And look, my dear colleagues, here I have another archive document from October 1987, such as Paule Car, the former public prosecutor, how the totalitarian regime of justice ever took place. Look, there's a journalist in Youth who wrote something, he found out that he immediately insulted SFRJ, that this man must be shut down immediately, that he is Mr. Brac Rotar. And look who he was sending the documents to. Who did the D.A. send the documents to? To the President of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Slovenia, Milan Kučan. What does Milan Kučan have to do with justice? What does Milan Kučan have to do with justice? And that was in 1987. Did we break up with all these public prosecutors, the judges who reported to former members of the Central Committee? Did we break up? We didn't break up. Recently, there was an article by members of the Supreme Court. It may be hard to say that you're someone's son, but look, everyone has a connection, whether they're sons, daughters of former Serbian officers or something. Then it's Ferlinz's case. Colleagues did not even say, Ferlinc was a member of KOS, an intelligence service, just as our former president, Milna Kučan, was called Plavi. Is this a normal situation, your esteemed colleagues and colleagues? Is that normal? Are we prisoners of former secret services, including the judiciary that is part of these secret services? Are we not aware that the country that has the longest-standing communist system, so-called Russia, within the framework of the former Soviet Union, today has a president of a psychopath who is a former KGB member. In fact, there is also one questionable security image of Europe in the future and we are talking about it today. We're talking about what needs to change, and we're talking about it right now. We're not talking about subjectivity, are we satisfied with any judgment in the case of Patricia? I'm not going to comment on that. I think it's all been said that people who claim to be left-wing in their freethinking nature or in their worldwide thinking that they've taken the side of the SDS President. This is enough fiasco for this court and it is a matter of former constitutional judges, and I believe that these people would not have been so exposed if they had not also seen a massive or severe violation of human rights in the process itself. So it's a judicature, which is a victory, is an intellectual victory. And that's what the top of the iceberg is. This is not only a problem of Slovenia, it is also a problem of Croatia, Bosnia, Serbia and so on. The question is which of these republics will first be freed from the thought, mental concepts incorporated in judgments, the judicata of supreme and higher courts, and also in the products of prosecutors. Not only are there elections ahead of us, but look at the representation of people's will in Parliament. We also speak in this case – is this justice here too, can someone here with 5% with a few 100 votes equally decide? Yes, you can. On the outside, we have people who have been to the elections, who have won 30% of the elections, and they are not Members. I know someone who won 4,000 500 votes in the election, over 30%, and he's not an MP. However, we have Members with 4.5%, 5% and a few 100 votes in favour. They decide about a certain sphere of people, how they will live in the future, pensioners, students, students, fathers, mothers. Is there justice here too? Is it fair that we have five former members of the SDV here? Is this also fair, respected colleagues and colleagues? It's a normal society, I ask you? Are we aware of what is right and what is wrong? This is what we are talking about in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is what we are talking about, and we are also talking about those judges, those prosecutors who have this courage, who have the intellectual breadth, who have the freedom of thought, who want to give and strengthen all their knowledge to their judicatures, and they have no opportunity because they are in certain tight structures that do not allow them to do so. For this reason, justice is a prisoner of itself, as is partly the policy through such a political system that we currently have, so I am thinking mainly through the electoral system. That way we do not have a real representation of the will of the people to Parliament, so we also have a problem in the judiciary. And the media should tell us what it is. Are those editors who once wrote in favour of the totalitarian regime who said that the West had rotted there, and we are an advanced society, and are still serving as editors on television, in the media, or do they not deserve us to thank them for their cooperation? Do we have real media too? And, dear colleagues, colleagues, that's what we wanted to talk about today. I believe you will understand our well-intentionedness, not that we are doing some political advertising before the upcoming elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Nor can I agree with those who have problems whenever we convene a meeting, when we propose a meeting to talk about anything, it is always pre-eminent, we want to collect points, we want to perform and so on. These are the constant impressions of those who are not in the hall when they should do everything else when they go to the hairdresser and elsewhere when they should be sitting at the meetings. We, when we assess what we need to talk about, that there is a problem, let us point out and talk about it. Before commenting on some of my colleagues who spoke before me, I would like to recall the commitment made by the Government to the Supreme Court. In fact, you will remember this event, and obviously the government and the court, Mr Maslesha, have estimated that everything is not as beautiful and beautiful as you say, but that there is a need for improvement and what to do. We then assessed this as a pianist action because we expected any analysis, or the results, after the so-called agreement, when the Supreme Court and the government found out what was wrong with the judiciary, what was the situation. This was the first chapter and then what we want to do and what results we want 1. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3. 6. We are talking about this, we have no analysis, we do not know whether any of this agreement has come true or not, or whether we have been successful, or whether the Government and the Supreme Court have concluded it, or whether it has been and was what we said at the time, that the government has turned out well, how it will change, has set some goals, because there have been more complaints and comments about the work of our judiciary. I must also say that I agree that some judges, prosecutors, criminals and others who are in the judicial or prosecution system are doing well and that is why it is all the more important that we talk about those who are not doing well, because of course this has a negative impact on the entire climate and on the enthusiasm of those who have shown themselves in these proceedings. The judges are leaving, which is what I've been talking to some people who have left because there is no change in the system and they feel like they're making empty proposals. Minister Pličanič promised a reform of the judiciary, promised it all year in our government, and did nothing smart, then promised it next year in the government of Alenka Bratušek. The result, with the exception of a few changes to insolvency legislation that makes things even more complicated and does not simplify them, is at least heard from the ground. Just yesterday, I was on one of the Tribunals, where I was told that up to a few years ago the procedures of executions and others in the courts were done very quickly, now it's all standing and it's not happening. So I wonder if there are any results of this agreement that was concluded some year ago, and we expected to see major changes soon. We have proposed several recommendations, including in terms of the permanent mandate of judges, in order to establish a trial period and so on, in order to do more on the supervision or quality of the work of the judges. We have provided quite a few analyses, we have also attached the words of European politicians talking about what needs to be done, and it is also in order to have the situation as we have it in the economy, that we have the wrong judiciary, because the judiciary is the one that first punishes someone who does not pay subcontractors, does not pay contributions, owes them and so on. Because these proceedings are taking so long for us, while companies are already failing before exercising their right in court and getting money for what they have done, for example. And to European politicians, including Olli Rehn, who presented data on Slovenia yesterday or the day before, and what else we must do, emphasises that something must be done in court, that the judicial system is the first one to be the one to be appropriate and the economic environment as it should be. Like I said, if we were to punish the first person who didn't pay the subcontractors who remained in debt and so on, we would never have come this far in this country. And that is why we cannot blame the politicians, even though they keep calling us to account. There's a lot of blame in court here, too. Judges themselves or the Council of Justice, and some things could be set out differently, are not just a matter of law. Mrs. Plevchakova said we didn't do anything. My colleague Gorenak has already replied that in our first term, we have amended the Penal Code, defined new crimes, then organised a special group for organised crime. At that time, investigations into the major tycoon acquisitions of companies began, in this special group, for example, Mr Kozina, who investigated Mercury or Mr Kordez and so on. However, we could continue to monitor the supervision of these prosecutors. Minister Zalar worked hard to disband this group, and he also succeeded, although he could not replace Mrs Brezigareva, because he somehow resisted Mr Pahor, but he did everything he had to do, so he disbanded this special group by setting up a specialised prosecutor's office, which still does not work with the power and with as many people as he should – of course, because the prosecutors against whom he supervised, unjustifiable supervision, then applied to this group. In the media, we've been monitoring photos of bankruptcy managers along with judges. I have made several requests to Minister Plitčanič to resolve the bankruptcy manager, Mr Dolamic. Mr Dolamič put his company, the construction company Grosuplje in bankruptcy and then was the bankruptcy manager of other companies. For a long time, even when he was appointed, he did not meet the conditions laid down by the bankruptcy law or who could be the bankruptcy manager. And nothing happened, so he found out about one bankruptcy in the Roman thermals, for 8 million he sold a thing that's probably worth 50 or more. Now he's not a bankruptcy manager anymore, he's obviously got to do it, and now he's doing something else. Also, Mr Čehovin's word that nothing shocking has happened since we had our previous session on the subject of justice would worry me, because there should be a lot of work to be done. We expected that something would happen inside the court and that those judges who were doing well and who knew how to work would say, but now it's really enough. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the next word. And after him as the last on behalf of the proposaler, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u76	Dear and respectable Mr. Secretary! You were not to hear countless hard words here today in this House, even all the too much insults that colleague Ljubica Jelusic has already talked about. I must say, the obvious that our judiciary is communist-oriented is in no way sustainable. I will try to answer some things quickly, because it makes no sense to repeat everything we have already heard and said today or to repeat what has already been said on the Committee on Justice. It may not be known that Slovenia has an agreement with the European Union on mutual recognition of judgments. This means that if we had a communist-oriented judiciary, this agreement would probably not be there. We talked a lot about the Constitutional Court. All I would mention is that even the Constitutional Court can be discussed and debated. I was surprised when the former President of the Constitutional Court on TV said he was sorry when he raised his hand to bring down all three referendums, then under President Borut Pahor's rule. It is said that the Constitutional Court is not unmistakable either, and the individual judges are not. Let me remind you that the Constitutional Court unanimously, from 9 to 0, adopted a judgment relating to the journalist Mladina, who then complained and received a lawsuit at the Strasbourg Court. These are small pieces of matter that indicate that not all gold is sacred and that we also have quite a few problems in this area. The words that did not belong to the National Assembly fell to an extreme extent. I have some things to mention. Threat. We need 60 Members and an operating knife to solve this. People, honey, what's coming to Nazism or what? Why solve problems with knives? Next. If I were silent and if I hadn't said anything, I wouldn't have mentioned it, my colleague Gorenak spoke of, again, an insult, to the High Commissioner Dr. Bavcon. If you reach to his knees, you can be very proud. Much has been said about photographs with pioneer hats and so on. The more we prevent it, the more it will be. Not because of the Yugoslav star, not because of it. Why do people wear Che Guevaro and anyone else wear T-shirts? Not because of some awakening of the past. But what's wrong with having a party of pranks is I've already had it, and probably some of you. Is this a disaster? Photomontage of Andre Ferlinc on that walk in Maribor – I read somewhere that forensics found that this was by no means identical to one photograph, but two. I'm not getting into this. But is it deadly or forbidden to meet and take five steps? Is that a problem? You're hugging Jansha, who's been convicted. You said we weren't gonna talk about Patricia. Yeah, who's been talking about this judgment all day? Who? That's the purpose of this laundry. That's all. And don't say no. Look, one more thing, I have to mention it. Just before me, it was said that Russia had the president of a psychopath. People, that's no way to talk in the National Assembly. You can say that at the inn, and it's not decent there. I'll never say that. Never. What if someone in the Russian Parliament said that Slovenia had a psychopath as president of the country? He's been elected on a regular basis, and people have chosen him. Now whether I like it or not, that's another story. And let us be careful about such expressions because we are doing harm to the whole country. The whole country. I'm not a lawyer, but that's right. Look, we know exactly what this session was about. The picture shows how interesting it is and how interesting it is. We're in a pre-election period, so we're dealing with everything at once, and like I'm discussing it now, I don't like it at all, but you fall into that river and it carries you. Justice has its mechanisms to deal with those judges and other workers who do not do well in their organs – I will not tell you here what the judiciary is, what the personal world is, and so on. I have here, see that I will not torture everyone together, the conclusions when the National Assembly did not grant immunity and allowed criminal proceedings against certain judges, which someone else has assessed, not us, because we are not experts in doing or doing wrong. I also have, as we voted, a whole bunch of these documents collected. And I don't know if we need to continue to discuss this. Look, it's painful, we keep saying that, and that's what's happening in public -- it's finally starting to do justice. If it had worked like this 10 years ago, we wouldn't have had Bavčar, I mean, we would have had him free, because I wouldn't have hoped to do anything stupid, and the Bosca Shrota, and Janez Janša, and Hilda Toto, and the Dušan Crnigo, and the Bineta Kordez, and the Robert Czarar, and the Lucky Friend, and Jankovic, and the Senica, and the Matjaža Kovačič, and those are names, that's painful, that hurts. [[…]] That hurts. But everyone has to answer, you know, not just the one who steals chocolate in the store. That's not the problem. This is the result of justice today and so is it. The same is true if we are to say that there are no more untouchable persons in this country. And if someone is legally convicted – I won't talk about names, because it's not just one, I've counted them, some of them are sitting – I can't scream in Parliament, "I can't, because the communist judges tried him because we don't have such a judicial system to do it differently..." How else? We're going to order how else? Me, Mirko Brulc? I don't know the file, I don't have the legal skills, and so on. There are three quarters of us in Parliament, three quarters, a lot of them. And there can't be a reason who's going to take a portion, who's going to be punished, who's not, because this one, I don't know, is in this party, they're in this one and so on. And please – I believe that you are on the wings of some victory in the European elections, which is disputable, because if we count the percentages, then things are completely different – please stop threatening. Today, these threats to judges, to the judiciary workers, were expressed directly and indirectly. All she's missing is, "Be careful, asshole, you're gonna judge like I say, 'cause if you don't..." And I've already mentioned some hard words. Let's just be patient. We are not all satisfied, we are not satisfied with justice, there are still a lot of reserves, we are still expecting a different job. Where there are errors, their organs, which I have previously counted, must engage and clean things up. Here I have a list of how many prosecutors, judges and judges have been suspended from work due to the mistakes they've been making and so on. So, things are moving on, we need to discuss this, but the way this is going today is below my level and not for the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak, I'm sorry, the Minister has signed up and we'd give him the floor and then you. Here you go, Dr. Shadow Plitzenic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies Members and Members of Parliament! I'm not going to steal too much time, Comrade Gorenak, but there are some things I'd like to say for closure. In view of this debate today – the co-workers briefed me briefly on the key points of the debate, given that I was not here today – and also in view of all the debate so far on the state of justice, I think we can find out that we all, Members and Members, as well as the government, any of the past and also of the coming ones, have the same objective when it comes to the judiciary or to the judiciary, namely an independent, effective, apolitical, qualitative, swift judiciary. I think this goal is the common goal of all of us. And, of course, everyone must do everything in his power to achieve this goal. The government and Parliament have powers here related to legislation. You know, ever since I was the Minister of Justice, there have been several legislative changes that are all focused on these objectives, which I have mentioned a little earlier, and which this Parliament has also adopted. Even more than that, we have had or are prepared, and unfortunately we will not be able to enforce it because this government no longer has full powers. I hope that this will be possible and that they will continue in the same direction as the legislative changes that are absolutely necessary, so that these objectives – let me repeat again, more effectively, more quickly and, of course, also politically and so on – will be achieved by an independent judiciary – so that these objectives can be achieved to the greatest extent possible. With previous legal changes and other work, with our own and co-workers in the ministry and governments as a whole, this and the previous Janša government, I think we have achieved quite a bit in these three years compared to all previous years after independence, in particular in the crucial part in which the legislative branch and the executive branch can be integrated, and this is the issue of efficiency, the speed of the trial. Here's some result achieved. I will now not be dropping into this statistical data, however anyone interprets it in different ways, I cannot pass on the fact that judicial proceedings have been reduced, substantially compared to all previous years, and that judicial backlogs have also been substantially reduced, as the European Commission also notes in its annual reports. When it comes to other issues related to the judiciary, particularly the key issue, this is a question of independence, and I think that we all, particularly those of us politicians, have an important responsibility, regardless of which one comes from and which one has a global view. In view of the fact that the decisions of the courts, the judgments of the courts are simply respected and not problematic as long as they are still in legal proceedings and so on. Once these procedures are concluded, of course, it is normal for them to be discussed and different opinions expressed, not until then, because, in this way, if we do not stick to this maximum, we respect a simple judgement, a decision, a decision of a separate branch of power, then we contribute ourselves to weakening the confidence of our people in a court that is already too low. So I think that what's important here is to stress, however hard it is to accept it, even to me, when, say, they come to me, people come to the brink of despair in these three years, at the brink of suicide with millions of cases that have also seemed unfair to me at first sight, but the judiciary has decided that, and so it has decided, and it has to be respected. Of course, that does not mean, as Mr Brulc finally mentioned, that the state of justice, particularly in the judiciary, is not being discussed, because, as we all say, we have the same goal – to improve this situation. Once again, I stress that it has already been substantially improved, but I believe that many, especially our people in everyday life, both individuals and businesses, do not yet feel it, so we need to continue in this direction. In particular, I would like to stress here, once again, the reduction of judicial proceedings, the reduction of judicial backlogs for greater efficiency of the judiciary. I would say something else where the judiciary still has a lot of work to do, and this is the attitude of the judiciary to the public, to taxpayers, to citizens and citizens who also pay them, including judges and judges, to do what they do, as they pay us and everyone else. Here I would stress that the important responsibility, as stated in order for this situation to be rectified in the judiciary, has only the judiciary, there can be no doubt about it. We can change the laws to disability, we can rewrote them all over again, the judiciary will still be the one who will have to cut down court proceedings, work even more effectively, be even more user-friendly, if I may say so to citizens and citizens, and also do much more within itself. And when we talk about the judiciary, we are not just talking about the courts, we are also talking about other bodies that we have in this country and which, in my opinion, have done little in the past to remedy the situation in the judiciary. In particular, let me put out a court of law. The Council of Justice is a constitutional body with important powers and I expect it to exercise these powers in practice. And look, here, what can we do? Nothing. The judiciary has to do this. After the exercise of disciplinary responsibility within the judiciary, there are special bodies for this. When it comes to the promotion of judges, again special organs, within the judiciary. Each of you should sweep ahead of your own threshold and then we can move forward, as is the case with this country in all areas. Government, Parliament can do its work. And once again, as I have done in this place many times before, to continue to amend legislation and to count that this same legal change will automatically mean some improvement in real life is an illusion. Not just when it comes to court, even when it comes to other things. Simply, I can tell you from my past pre-political experience, when I have been a consultant for many years, and a consultant in this way that I have written the laws of the ministries myself, that this is not a solution. So these very laws, which are very quality and which are not problematic, say the Water Act, which I especially point out is particularly quality. What I'm saying is that I know these things, and I know that counting on the change in legislation and then automatically counting on the change in real life is delusional. Those who are responsible for the implementation of a law. We are now talking about those laws for which implementation is competent in the Court of Justice, and it is their greatest responsibility to actually enforce them. Laws should be amended and corrected only where absolutely necessary. I am not saying, there are still a lot of such things in Slovenian legislation related to the functioning of courts where a lot needs to be rectified. I can say that most of these things have been identified by us, we have these changes prepared when my successor arrives, I will hand them over, I hope that he will take them forward and that he will then put them into procedure and that Parliament will adopt them and then the laws in the law where they need to be amended will be amended. But then our business ends here. And then the judiciary with all the organs within them, with the Council of Justice, which is outside them and then other parts of the judiciary, the State Prosecutor's Office and the relevant authorities that exist there, let's say the State Prosecutor's Council and so on. They must do their job, they must, as it were said, sweep their threshold. However, I think that this goal that we have in this House, regardless of who will be on the left and on the right, in the middle, above, will always be the same, because I think that everyone who is Members and Members of Parliament, and I also speak for myself, members of the government, we went into this business because we want to do something good for this country, then, of course, the ways can be different how to do it, but I am also here convinced that we can reach an agreement. The question was, my colleagues informed me how the undertaking was being implemented. Since this is too extensive for us to talk about this quickly here, we will draw up a special report on the implementation of commitments. Let me briefly state that one important part of the commitment has come true. In particular, the government has done virtually everything it has committed, and the judiciary has something else to do, but it has done, as it said, a particularly precise report on how the commitment is being implemented. Finally, because I have just heard – and that someone does not misunderstand – is Mrs Jeraiev, somehow I have understood her, I do not know how else you have dealt with her, regarding Mr Dolamic, if we have deliberately let him do some bankruptcy proceedings and then resolved her. Here I have information that he was suspended as soon as the legal conditions were met, and this is a legal indictment under the law. When this was done, then we could react, but sooner, you'd probably agree with me, despite the fact that someone thought we should, we can't, we can't, we can't act contrary to the law. So there was no background here, so at least not at my place, it's safe for me to leave someone now to do a few more procedures to steal something else, and then we'll react. Not nearly. I act strictly in accordance with the law. I also propose legal changes where necessary. For example, if I see that a law-abiding act which, for example, is imposed on me as a minister, is lifeless and ineffective. For example, when it comes to bankruptcy legislation, we have made such changes twice in these three years. But now with Mr. Dolamic, just short information, so no one would have a bad feeling about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I see Mr. Brultz is up. He's coming. He's a fertilist. All those I want to tell them, when I get up, they run away, this is true for Mrs Poropat, for Mrs Potter and for Mr Brulco. But since Mr. Brulco is gone and gone, I'm going to say this, Mr. Secretary. Look, because this part of your theory, if you, we can adopt laws, then it's either the justice or the organs that are there by the constitution, the saints of justice and so on. Well, that theory is kind of logical. It's kind of logical, I have to tell you this, but look, the problem we have in this country is that they don't want it. Look, anyway, someone earlier talked about responsibility within the judiciary, Mr. Brulc was waving a list of how many prosecutors the working relationship had been interrupted, and I don't know about any, because they're going between lawyers. That's a fact. After you say, look, the Council of Justice; the constitutional category, it has its own boss, you have nothing to do with it. All of this I can believe, but look, this gentleman has now dealt with Mrs Pivkova. And what did this Council of Justice do? He said that judges must always act in such a way that they do not arouse a sense of impartiality in the public. And look, that's what the Codex says. Yeah, what did the Council of Justice do? He didn't do anything. He didn't do anything. This lady will probably, I don't know, start carrying Tito's picture around tomorrow, probably not Janshev's. Don't you think I should sanction her? But she's not. The same goes for the Personal Council, I said before when you were gone, Jelka Rozman, six times the wrong award to the bankruptcy manager, six times! Six times! The higher judges correct and say, no, the judge is no longer so, you're wrong, we're canceling, you have to do it again. Then, of course, the time for advancement comes, and the Personal Council says it is suitable for advancement. Her boss complains, but she's suitable for promotion because it's the work of the Personal Council. And that's why I'm saying, what I said earlier is that a constitutional intervention is needed. By the way, you're out of time, it's like you're in front of some field you need to dig, but you don't have a motika. It means that someone has to give you a hoax to bathe this field, that's in the figurative sense of the word. In a real vocabulary, which is part of the National Assembly, of course — what? The fact that you need a change of constitution to need amended legislation, with a constitutional majority of course adopted, so that you can reach out as you need to cut because you are out of tools. As far as Mr. Brulco is concerned. Look, his performance was similar, I had this feeling, you know, like I'm reading a report from a Udbov agent. Why? In fact, the Udbov agents were able to fake, but they did a little bit of loading, so that they were important to their bosses, and that they got bigger prizes. But, look, he said I threatened with 60 MPs or a constitutional majority. So he understands the election in the National Assembly and possibly the possibility that the right hand will receive 60 Members as a threat. Yeah, I get it. If Mr Brultz is from the past, because he still lives in the past, then that is a threat. Otherwise, this is a constitutional category, an opportunity for voters to elect 60 Members. But for him, it's a threat. Did you see that? Next thing I know, he said I was threatening with some knives. Look, you can tell from this, uh, someone's preparing a coup. [[advertising from the hall]] Long knives, yeah. This is what Udbov agents report, so they reported, so they got more money for their work and, of course, they were important intelligence agents. But I didn't say that, I said that Slovenia needs 60 Members to change the constitution. However, in the following words, in the figurative sense of the word – your coworkers were here knowing exactly what I said – we cannot treat justice with aspirin in a translated sense, but what we need is an operating knife because justice needs surgery. And look, there's something else that's then wetting, sorry, talking, Mr. Brultz. He was also talking about the photomontage of Ferlinz, as if the author of the painting hadn't come forward. These are fictitious facts of the type of reports of the Judgment. And that's it, there's nothing else. Further on, there was a lot of talk, and the media also reported on how SDS weighs, how SDS "fun", how it exploits cameras and so on. Well, yeah, okay, if we're using cameras, then some people are running from them because from there to there and I don't see any. I see only a Member, Mr Gönch – thank you for being here – and Members of the SDS and representatives of the Government, and Vice-President of the National List. Well, someone's running from the cameras, isn't it? That's a bigger problem than someone talking in front of cameras. But I've talked a lot about justice – Minister, let me remind you, I haven't said that these are my estimates, that these are our assessments and so on, but I've quoted people who mean something in justice. I quote Dr. Boštjan M. Mayor, quote Constitutional Judge Jan Zobc. And, look, all I said was that they said it was a corporate attack on us, how we want bad justice. But Mr Zobs said clearly that the problem of the Slovenian judiciary is not so much in the attempt to influence it, the main problem is not in the penetration of politics into the judiciary, because it has always been there and still is, so the one before 1990 is still in the judiciary today. He claims that this court is not independent. He says that politics has always been there and she doesn't have to try to get there because she never left there after 1990. Look, now that we're aware of this, we're the problem. He further says that Slovenian justice has all the legally defined mechanisms to ensure its independence, but does not take advantage of it because it suits him that the left political option is in the justice system. That's the problem. Furthermore, it says that the cardinal problem of the Slovenian judiciary is only the judiciary. That's what we're saying, but we say it a little better, and he said it more directly. Why does he say that? Because in it all the legacy of the totalitarian period. He's saying that. He further says that the judiciary is closed, that it is self-sufficient and so on. Dick, this German judge, he said he was protecting his privileges. I agree with both of you. He further says that it would be good for the judiciary to maintain its independence, but independence in the sense that no one will in any way influence the work of the judiciary, not that the left political option is in the judiciary. That's what he was talking about. But he also says that free shooters like him – they can't now because he's a constitutional judge, even if he was a judge in a district court or a district court, he'd be an ex, of course he would be an ex – they can't now. He further says that this independent judiciary, the word that in narrates and says that "it is perfectly normal for a hidden favourite to be their president." Yeah, because it's normal, it provides continuity from the past and so on. It also points to the fact that politicians who went to law school go to justice days. And I add that Anderlich is with secondary school and Mr Saiovic with the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. And he misses people who have a law school and would be in politics. And he's still talking. Look, no one answered Mr. Zobec, but everyone was cheating on us. Interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I take it you've all got your word for it. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I see a desire for a debate, so let me put it this way, you can all sign up, of course, with the pressure on the button, except for the government and the proposer, I would ask, even if you would like to come forward with a raise of your hand. Opening login option. We have three other panellists reported, and if I saw it right, the proposaler is in the end, that means five minutes each. Here you go. As the first Mr. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u82	Good-bye to all of you again! Slovenia also depends on the success of the Slovenian judiciary, not only on the protection of human rights, not only on the full fulfilment of that constitutional standard, which states that everyone has the right to judicial protection, which means, of course, to judicial protection within a reasonable time and in accordance with European standards, but also on the question of Slovenian justice, a fundamental developmental issue. Nothing helps if we still have such good laws, if, for example, someone who takes care of his company cannot exercise the interests of his legal rights in court within a reasonable time. Nothing helps if, at the end of a few years, it turns out that an entrepreneur was right to protect his employees, to try to recover certain funds or certain rights through a court for them, if this company goes bankrupt at the time and there is nothing left of it, then people are on the budget, the burden of the state and their families are affected. Of course, the entrepreneur is also affected, any compensation in this case is, of course, only a drop into the sea. One of the main reasons why Slovenian entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in Gorenjska, move to neighbouring Austria, is effective judicial protection. There are simply financial non-disciplines in such a form, endless, long-lasting processes that drag on for years and years do not know. Issues are resolved quickly, effectively and in accordance with European standards. And because of this, a number of people who would do their jobs here, who would give jobs here to Slovenian citizens and citizens, to the inhabitants here, go abroad and then, because they pay taxes where the company has its seat, the rich country. This is the greatest possible long-term poverty of our country that we can have. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the trial of European standards also means respect for and consistent respect for European values. With this we always have endless problems, each of us, I firmly believe, on one side and on the other, on either side, will sign that Nazism or fascism is a criminal, rejected totalitarian system. I'll sign it myself. But I will also sign because this is a European standard, because I firmly believe this because it is in line with European values, that communism is also totalitarian, rejected, a system that has failed, but some judges are swarming under the symbols of this system. You can imagine that in Germany, a judge would rule under the crimson cross and under those red flags, with this sign, because it's really national socialism, and with us international socialism, there are only two variations of one and the same criminal system. What would happen to him? With us, the Council of Justice says, "You must respect the principles enshrined in the judiciary's ethics." If anyone thinks this is appropriate, okay, I respect that, but personally, I am sure that such behaviour is far from European standards. This undermines the reputation of the judiciary as a whole, lowers the level of confidence in it. And it does not undermine the level of confidence of those who point out that this is wrong, that this is not in line with European standards, that this is not in line with the European resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism adopted by the European Parliament. Also with the votes of all Members and Members of all Slovenian parties, unanimously. It's not his fault. It's the one who did this. As a result, I once again draw attention to the fundamental problem, which is not only the problem of Slovenian justice, but perhaps the most obvious problem there. It's not independence, it's not irresponsibility, it's the opposite! The independence of any individual, any official or, in the case at hand, any branch of authority, including the judicial branch of authority, shall be based on a responsibility which must be universal, present at all times, evident and verifiable and consistent with the rules. Simply put, words must be the same as actions or reverse actions must be the same as words, including those recorded in the judicial code. This is not just our expectation, this is what Europe expects of us. A few days ago, she reminded us again, now for the third time, of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Beznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Perhaps some continuation of the previous debate, including in the direction of the business environment. Weak judicatures, therefore poor judicial practice, long-term procedures lasting several years also have a negative impact on the Slovenian business environment. The whole range of economic disputes we have, the inquality judgments in economic disputes, have an impact on the long-standing disputes, including the consideration of potential investors in our business environment. We're falling into competition here. The rule of law is also part of the business environment, a respected colleague and colleague. Thinking of Brulco's colleague in front of me that it's nothing to do with someone wearing a red star and a picture of Tito. This is not the problem of any citizen of Marjan K. or Franc Z., and the problem is the public official, we are public officials such as the judges of the independent branch of government. And this is where we have to be careful. And here also the judicature of the Constitutional Court, which I have presented in a way since September 2011, speaks and I will read it again: "Human dignity is at the heart of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Its ethical and constitutional importance is already derived from the Basic Constitutional Charter, which is not only the constitutional legal basis of Slovenian statehood, but is based on principles that express the fundamental constitutional quality of the new independent and independent state. The adoption of the independent documents not only led to a break in the state legal link between the Republic of Slovenia and the SFRJ, but was a break with the fundamental value concept of constitutional regulation. Unlike the former SFRJ, the Republic of Slovenia is a country whose constitutional arrangements are based on the principle of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Human dignity is a fundamental value that predominates all legal order, and therefore has an objective importance in the functioning of authority both in concrete procedures and in the adoption of regulations." Dear colleagues, this paragraph of the Constitutional Court says more than we have all said here in this House today. This also means how judges, prosecutors and other justice workers must act, as do we politicians, who are public officials. And that's what I want to talk about today. We have a practical example of a nation, such as the German, which was divided into two camps during the Cold War, one part of the Germans to the West, the other part to the Communist East. Look what happened to the German merger. They made it clear that East German judges over 50 had nothing left to look for in the judicial system, not prosecutors. And they were retired, and the younger judges went under legal supervision, went into pre-qualifications, and went under a few years of supervision. And that's the fundamental meaning of all of this. And today we wanted to say clearly and loudly that we need quality judges, quality prosecutors, we need people who have a general view that is not in some narrow segment, so their argument in the case law alone cannot be a field of some narrow segment. A judge, a high-quality judge, makes real life out of legal regulations some living matter that is created, complemented by legal practice. That's the point of law. That's the primalness of the law we all want. A good judgment, a high-quality judgment, is understood by the one who lost it. And that's what I'm saying. The judge is the one who specifies some things that have this rich knowledge of philosophy, psychology, history. That's the right one. Today, all we want to say is that we have the system's tightness, we also have a bad culture of the environment in which the judges operate. Every young person who comes into such a bad environment is then automatically affected by this environment. And why is it that all today, even when we are talking about the Constitutional Court, constitutional judges are not part of our regular judiciary, often come from an international environment, often come from an academic environment and do not come directly from regular courts. And that's why these judicatures are something special, and they sometimes reject exactly that, and they're also contrary to a lot of the legal practice they've had so far. And unconstitutional legal practice also sheds a field of legal relativism, which also generates judicial backlogs. People make decisions because they know everything's possible. That's what I was talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear Minister with co-workers, Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament! I'm glad, Mr. Secretary, that you've finally joined us. For what? Because you have also said some things that you might have heard before, that you have, somehow, also from this critical point of view, highlighted some of the shortcomings or weaknesses that need to be addressed in the judiciary, in addition to, of course, telling you what was done right. Nevertheless, I would say that despite the fact that most Members and Members of the ruling coalition have somehow condemned the convening of today's meeting, the debate has shown some of the things that need to be resolved in the judiciary. I'm not just talking about the trial, like you said, because justice isn't just a trial. Let me be allowed that, of course, we have in the constitution that Slovenia is a rule of law, but the rule of law, if it does not work, is actually an obstacle to the whole functioning of society. And when I said in the debate on the Committee that economists had also assessed the functioning and efficiency of the judiciary themselves, and when they said how the judiciary was also acting on the economy, it was somehow 46% found that it was actually very insurmountable. I think that around 23%, in fact, is less restrictive, but if we look at it together, almost 69% of economic operators or business operators think that justice affects economic development. But we all know that our society and the functioning of the country are strongly dependent on the functioning of the economy or economic development. And let me touch on another matter that the High Court's representative on the Committee has also pointed out, that is, when I pointed out in my part of the debate the long-standing labour disputes. Some constitutional lawyers also point out that practically these labour disputes should not occur at all. It's particularly problematic when they come from public administration. You know, we've already pointed out on the Committee on Justice in our government that, as a rule, the ministries work in this sense, issue a decision or decision or administrative act to an employee, and then you don't even answer his complaint and let a person sue. This also increases judicial backlogs. And that is unacceptable, the courts themselves should also assess in which cases it is even permissible for a person to come to a court and to have a hearing because it is an insult to a court in cases that should not actually reach a court. These are the things that should be discussed in the future. And when we talk about judicial backlogs or failures, I think we are under-focused on the huge injustices or violations of human rights coming from certain faults in proceedings conducted by the parties, I will say either the investigating authorities, the prosecutions or the courts. And in a number of cases, if they went to review the procedure, they would actually find out how citizens or entities were infringed in these proceedings by their rights or procedures in criminal proceedings. All of this is what casts a bad light and that here the judiciary must first and the investigating authorities must see themselves and make decisive moves in this area. Finally, it cannot happen as has already been said and my colleague Pojbič has pointed out that the labour dispute lasts 17 years. I've known procedures that last 14 years, and they haven't had a court epilogue. And I know the case when the criminal proceedings were initiated, and the first debate was essentially discussed, the complaint was called only after five years and then no more than five years, and then suddenly in 2011, the matter opened and began to resolve. And that the number of criminal proceedings is changing. Why? Because, in fact, things should have aged a long time ago and somehow the judiciary is concealing illegal conduct. But these are all the things that need to be done, in fact, we are all right together to warn them, not by defaming the judiciary, but by helping the judiciary. [[…]] It is indeed necessary for the judiciary to ensure all conditions in order to be able to be successful and of quality. But the judiciary will also have to look at itself and find that some of the things we expose are also excused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u87	Thank you very much. And at the end of the day, as the last discusser, Dr. Vinko Gorenak's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I didn't think it was my turn yet. Look, I'm actually gonna start where I ended up first. Indeed, I, on purpose in today's performances, have quoted Mr Zobc, the Constitutional Judge, as well as Mr Župančič. You never know in this country. You never know. Before I wrote the last blog that was published on my website, I thought three times about what to write in the address. Why? For a basic reason, because there can be some fancy prosecutor who's gonna put me in court. At that time, we have before the court of the former President of the National Assembly of Cujakati, Brščič, Štuhec and others. Who did what? Verbal delinquency. They attacked KPK. You know, it's a very big deal. Therefore, in the following few words about what Dr. Zupančič says, this is the supreme authority. And all the Members who here attacked me and the SDS and so on did not, of course, say one word about Mr Zupančič. Not one word. And we know it's Professor Law School, whether it is or not, I don't know, but at least there's probably another doctor there. Among other things, he was talking about the Vaskršić case, which is 124 euros when your house is taken away. Now, if we link this to what Mr Zobbet said, he's talking about spelling. When you read something, when you read it, you see it like that, that's it, then a bang boom, and you got 124 euros, and the house goes. And I'm not saying it's wrong. I didn't say it was wrong, because some of the reasons indicate that that gentleman had quite a lot of money, and he was a little "fucking around". But what does Mr. County say? He says it's about saying that judgment about incredible mechanical legal formalism, amazing. And he goes on to say that Slovenian judges, in addition to legal knowledge, need a purely healthy farm of intelligence. They don't have them. Actually, that's what he's talking about. Then, say, well, now Minister, you're from Law School, but you know that I'm hairless on the tongue to everyone. What else did Mr. Zupančič say, Dr. Zupančič? He says: "With us is the source of the problem of the Faculty of Law. I know about specific cases of people who were retarded and who did Law School without anyone asking them how many are two or two. Then they passed the legal exam in the same way and so on. No wonder we're where we are." In short, he is very critical of Slovenian justice. According to my assessment, he's justifiably critical. I don't have any problem with these criticisms of his. The problem I would like to draw attention to in the rest of my time is double criteria. Double criteria in Slovenian policy, and in particular double criteria in this National Assembly. I think it will be time for just one case; 2009, May 5th, I perform on TV Slovenia and say that the Constitutional Court denied the people's will, I don't know, some referendum on notary tariffs. In short, I criticized the Constitutional Court. Here sat Mrs. Former Interior Minister Kresalov, who said: 'Shame for the MP, shame for Dr. Science, stand down already.' There sat Mr. Saiovic: "You must never criticize the decisions of the Constitutional Court, they must be enforced and respected and spoken of immediately." There was Mrs. Potrat, who was nodding so I thought her head would fall off. Look, yeah, that's exactly what happened. And now, let's hear it, and then Luke Juri came to Parliament, who said, "The Constitutional Court has struck the court," which is what he meant by that decision in the Municipality of Ankaran. Mrs. Potts nodded again so I thought her head would fall off. But today, of course, it's different. Today, however, he says that Mr Petrič of the Constitutional Court must not talk about the need for judgments to be watertight. Look, these are double criteria. These double criteria are in force in the left-hand policy, and these double criteria are obviously often also applicable in the judiciary. I believe that on the subject of justice, as someone said in the closing speech, we will meet many times again whether we will have those operating knives, in quotation marks or not, and I don't know, but that will be the people's decision in the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-03-SDZ6-Izredna-68.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I also conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 68th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Good luck.
