ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Bojan Starman and Mr Franc Jurša. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of the Court of Justice to the 17th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 11 April 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. Member Jožef Kavtičnik proposes to withdraw point 9 from the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. This is the draft law on bridge insurance for professional athletes, second reading, EPA 1741-VI. You received the proposal by letter of 17. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I ask if Mr Joseph Kavticnik wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u3	But I'm asking everyone else to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, all present! On the committee, we adopted amendments and also put the law somehow into consideration in the National Assembly. This was accepted. On the Committee itself, the Legislative and Legal Service made some comments, and those of us who signed under the law were of the opinion that it was right to draft the law in the amendment form so that it would be even better. When I signed in good faith that everything was fine, under these amendments, I saw that it was necessary for all the candidates or 10 Members or the Group of Members to sign under these amendments. So these amendments were rejected by the Sectional Service of the National Assembly, so I apologized to all those who supported the law and also signed to withdraw the law. I have proposed that the law withdraw and move to the next meeting so that we can prepare amendments in the form required by the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, of course, I ask you to go in this direction and at the May session we support such amendments and then the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. I conclude the debate on the motion for withdrawal and ask you to verify the functioning of the voting devices. We decide on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[It's a vote.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. We are still moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference to or with an earlier amendment. We can decide. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 24th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We move on to the 16th A-point of the agenda, which is to respond to the demands of the Group of Members and Members, that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on the Protection of Nature, the EPA of 1883, to be adopted after a shorter procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 93rd meeting on 11 April 2014 that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act, EPA 1883-VI, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, should be considered in a simplified procedure. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. I give the text to the representative of the applicant of the request to Ljub Žnidar, for presentation of the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you, Chairman. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government with his ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! The government proposes that the Nature Conservation Act be dealt with in a simplified manner. We do know, however, that less difficult changes and additions are being addressed following a reduced procedure. In this law, however, there is a very broad and very important content. The Nature Conservation Act is primarily intended to remove administrative obstacles, to remove various burdens, but this is not true in this proposal, as the financial consequences of the implementation of this Act are increasing. This means more tasks or more administrations. The proposal itself does not elaborate and define interventions by placing State importance in the premises of infrastructure facilities. We have a very bad experience with Natura 2000, which we quickly brought into our space. Protecting nature is an extremely difficult area, what and how to protect by demarcating into permissible and unacceptable interventions. It is very important to define human activities in nature so that they are not burdened with not burdening the habitats of plant and animal species. However, the regulation of motor-powered vehicles in the natural environment is addressed by additional administrative procedures for recording and marking these vehicles. The bill itself, which was created under the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, imposes tasks and financial obligations on two other departments, both the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of the Interior. It is nowhere to be seen whether this is inter-sectorally coordinated or if the other ministries take responsibility for this bill. It is also not clear that the implementation of measures to protect the natural values of national importance by the local community is being coordinated. In many cases, practice shows that the country is an extremely poor host and the main burden then falls on the local community. In the proposal for a law, penalties in the event of infringements are greatly increased because it raises the question of why such high penalties are not carried out in practice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the nature conservation law is a very important and extensive content that should not be dealt with in any way after a reduced procedure. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group proposes that the law be dealt with in a normal manner and we will thus come to a better-quality law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request, so I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the decision has not been adopted and that the assembly will therefore consider the proposal for a law following a regular procedure. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the 15-day deadline for the submission of a request for a general debate on a proposal for a law begins today. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES With regard to this item on the agenda, I have taken up 43 questions in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the President of the Government to the opposition and to the Member of the ruling coalition's question. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and ministers shall reply to the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, they all have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please take this into account in your questions. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The MP who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Roman Jakič, Minister of Defence, from 17:00 onward, Samo Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Dr. Uroš Čufer, Minister of Finance, from 2.30 p.m. and Mag. Alenka Bratušek, President of the Government, from 1:00 p.m. on. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent to which no reply has been received within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. The first question will be raised by Mrs Romana Tomc, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the Government, exactly one week ago, the Government had just adopted a national reform programme at a letter meeting. The objectives that you have set out in the reform programme are very optimistic. However, if this is to be concluded after the implementation of last year's reform programme, this programme will also remain only a letter on paper. Let me remind you that you already wrote in the coalition contract that you will not raise taxes, that in last year's reform programme you announced a health reform, that you announced the implementation of the golden fiscal rule, that you promised the definitive rehabilitation of banks, that you promised to continue efforts towards financial consolidation. But the reality shows otherwise. You're not only raising taxes and contributions, you're also raising other taxes. The final resolution of the banking system for which you have earmarked billions is still unspoken. No one has claimed responsibility for the damage. Instead of a health reform, after the resignations of two ministers, we have a health minister. The consolidation of public finances cannot yet be discussed. Of the promised 15 sales, which you have also announced in foreign media, until the end of last year, only two have been made to date. Although you have prepared your marriage according to your standards, Slovenian state holding still does not work. Legislation to help restructure businesses is not effective. You have also failed to deliver on the promise of participation by the interested and professional public in the drafting of regulations, and your so-called non-political recruitment can be judged by the public itself. You will pursue personal complementary work even through house investigations, and on the other hand, you will have a billion and a half levies to pay. However, you have been far more successful than in carrying out reforms in debt. In a very short time, you've made a record commitment. Well, not just that. You even owe yourself a supply. For this year's budget, there would be enough debt of 3 billion and a half, and in four months you've been in debt of 4.6 billion. So, Madam President of the Government, how can we trust you that this year will be different? Tell me: How will you implement the measures to ensure that, as you say in the reform programme, we reach up to 70,000 new jobs in two years? What measures?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I am pleased that the numbers actually deny all your words, economic growth, the lower price of our debt and, after all, the number of newly employed people in March, which is more than 43% higher than in February and slightly less than 40% higher than in last March. But we're going in the right order. It is true that the National Reform Programme was finally confirmed by the Government at the letter meeting and addressed it earlier at a regular meeting. And we've allowed ourselves to take even two governments to work things out and coordinate. The stability programme mentioned in your question has not yet been confirmed. However, it is a fact that both the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme and the Coalition Treaty, or the Cooperation Agreement, which you also mention in the question, all these three documents have one common objective or measure. This is a strengthening of economic growth, so that citizens will also feel the first signs of recovery since the end of 2013. And three areas will be key to revitalising this economic growth. One is the continuation of fiscal consolidation and the long-term sustainability of public finances. Yeah, we're going a different way here than your government did. We are not only doing this on the expenditure side, but we are doing what other countries are doing, which are successfully fighting the economic crisis on both sides, both on the income side and on the expenditure side. And the fact is that we are absolutely following the objective of reducing the public financial deficit, which will be 3.2% of GDP this year and 2.5% of GDP next year. As far as the sales you mentioned are concerned, I am glad that you mentioned them because companies on the list, such as Telekom, are not sold overnight, because otherwise we might have a story to repeat – I do not want to mention the company below, but if you are interested, with pleasure where the procedures were not the most transparent, and we have problems today. I am pleased that the markets and institutions involved say that in such a transparent way that privatisation is currently ongoing in our country, things in Slovenia have not yet flowed. And I'm proud of it. Even if it takes about a month or two longer. As far as debt is concerned. Indeed, last year’s debt increased mainly due to the rehabilitation of the banking system. But I always point out that I believe that with the good management of this property, which ended up in a bad bank, the debt – which is about 12% and 13% of GDP – we will also repay or, above all, with this property, and we will not transfer this debt to younger generations. However, as for this year's debt, I will be very happy to have a slightly more detailed explanation of how you think we can pay off about 4 billion capitals and fund a billion more deficits. It's just hard to count. Indeed, the trend of indebtedness in our country needs to be halted, and that is what we are doing. But certainly not true — and those who say so deceive or deceive — that the debt in our country can be over overnight. I've told you many times what would happen if you didn't owe yourself this year, as you say. Budget, expenditure could only be half of what they are today. Can you imagine our country with a 4-billion-dollar budget?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you. Mrs Romana Tomc has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u12	Yes, of course I have a request to complete the answer. My question, Madam President, was: with what measures will you achieve these objectives that you have written down in the National Reform Programme? But because you didn't answer, let me write down something that you wrote down. You wrote that a measure aimed at limiting income will also be the extension of the Public Finance Balance Act. Didn't you just say it was the worst, the most despicable and unjust marriage? Why are you prolonging it? Probably because it gives the only of these measures results. You have announced a reduction in public sector labour costs by 5% at the same time as a reduction in the number of employees. Tell me: How will you achieve that? And you've announced everything else, some other measures, if that's not enough. Tell me – which ones? Since the Constitutional Court has annulled your unconstitutional law, you will have to replace 200 million euro of lost revenue. You say you will replace them by further rationalising the public sector. What do you mean, Madam President? With lower transfers to public institutions and funds? What do you mean, I'm asking you? By raising excise duties, which is the easiest and you have already done, and with higher revenues from dividends of state-owned enterprises. How will you force them to do business more effectively this year than they did last year? And for the end, you say something else. If all these measures don't fall behind, we'll do some other things. Which one? Madam President, I expect specific answers this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you. Dear Member, you have actually read it, so that what you have read may not have to be repeated. But I'm going to touch what was mentioned in the end. By the way, the ZUJF was unstoppable in some parts, if I recall correctly. I'll start with these profits. 160 million is supposed to be profits after our additional 40 million raise. Do you know how old it was last year? 192 million. So we're still very conservative. As regards the reduction in wages, I can tell you that already in the adopted budget for 2016 a reduction in wages is envisaged. I would like the public sector unions to agree that there will be no further interference with the minimum wage, but that we can agree on a reduction in the number of employees. I think it's been done enough on an individual salary in recent years. We've already transposed a number of measures from your infamous ZUJF, at least for those we've assessed as necessary. In fact, the majority of those we have to agree on relate specifically to public servants and salaries in the public sector. I'm sure everything we've written and accepted will be enough. I wish that, as in last year's year, as in this year's year, we will find an agreement with the unions and not simply say, as in one previous government, that the weight should be reduced by 10%. However, with regard to indirect budgetary users, where public institutions also belong, I can tell you that the accumulated surpluses on these legal entities, the real public institutions and public agencies go beyond 10 to avoid saying 100 million euros. I believe that by rationalisation, when we look at each legal person, they will find more than 40 to 50 million euros than our estimates.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you. Mrs Romana Tomc has a request to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I would like or suggest that a broader general debate be held on the response of the President of the Government. We are talking about the most important problems in Slovenia, but apparently the Prime Minister said there are no problems. From her answers, we might conclude that everything is in order. But no matter how well things turn out for us, I still haven't got any answers, Madam President, how you do it. Let me take this opportunity to give you some of my thoughts or answers on what you said earlier about economic growth, on the price of debt and on unemployment. You know, and the International Monetary Fund has also written this down that our economic growth is the sole cause of the growth of foreign European markets and not the improvement in the business environment that you have made for businesses through your actions. The cost of our debt has fallen. Sure. But let's look at the comparison. Comparable countries in our neighborhood owe themselves cheaper. And as far as unemployment is concerned, this number has been manipulated several times, and in your mandate unemployment has increased by 4 thousand 100 people. And more alarmingly, unemployment continues to grow faster than employment. All the number of unemployed registered at the institution today could apply to the 770 jobs offered. As for the revenue and expenditure, Madam President, the information I have also mentioned about the indebtedness, whether you owe too much, too little or too good, has not grown on my cabbage. These are the data from the Bank of Slovenia, which tells you that you owe yourself more than necessary. In the past year, revenue grew less than expected despite tax hikes, although taxes contributed most to this increase. But other elements contributed to the fact that the revenues were not as high as they were supposed to be. On the other hand, they are increasing, and in this crisis, they are increasing, not reducing, spending. Of course, it's mostly on interest. And at the expense of interest, we will pay more than a billion euros this year because of all this heavy debt, even in stock. The reason for all our problems is the rehabilitation of banks. Even without the rehabilitation of the banks, the esteemed president, the numbers would be worse than you said. And the most disturbing thing about bank rehabilitation is, of course, we'll pay for it by taxpayers. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Wednesday, 23 April 2014, in the framework of the votes. The second question will be raised by Mr Franz Bogovic, Slovenian People's Party, to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u18	Good afternoon, fellows! Hello, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government with your team! All of us sitting in this Chamber and also the general position in Slovenia is that we want to have as much of a social state as possible. In the way we want to ensure it, we are slightly different in our solutions. So far, particularly steps towards new taxes, including fairly uncontrolled and large-scale debt, have been known, and all too little of this awareness is that we can have a social state only when we also have a good economy. I agree with the number you have written down in the National Reform Programme, so that public cash registers such as the budget, health checkbooks and pension registers will come out much better when we have 850,000 employees and then we will also address the budget deficit. In addition to the fact that the situation in Europe and the wider world are at our disposal and there is a sense of greater economic activity mainly in the area of exports, it is not in some way detectable of the measures that would be taken within the country to improve our economic environment. We are convinced that the steps that are being taken in this direction are to withdraw the subsidy policy in companies and that it is going the other way, correct and missing steps towards decommissioning the economy, increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. In the Slovenian People's Party and Nova Slovenije we also introduced a law to simplify the business environment for small economies, with higher flat-rate taxes and the like. There is also a clear commitment and determination to resolve the problems posed in the area of European funds drawback, either by releasing funds held in Brussels or by taking ambitious and courageous projects that are ready to ready it on the table and could trigger economic activity in this financial perspective and in part in the next financial perspective. It is also clear that the government you are running is not really listening to projects where both the public and the private sector are heard. In one case, on the case of hydropower plants on the lower Sava, where you also laid the base stone for the energy part, on the environmental, public part, where the use of the favourable EIB credit and also the resources provided by the State is somehow impossible to come up with a solution. So I'm asking you a question: What concrete measures will you take in these three areas? So, in the fields [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] to manage, for the economy, improve the business environment, draw European funds and in areas where the country can also activate public investment with its assistance. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you. The word is from the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Allow me to begin by stressing once again that, despite the fact that many in this Chamber want to show a picture even more black than it is, things have changed significantly over the last year. From negative economic growth at the end of the year, we were able to conclude with a positive outcome. And our job is to keep this trend going. Therefore, we will continue to focus on the consolidation and long-term sustainability of public finances, the extension of businesses, the improvement of corporate governance and privatisation and the improvement of the business environment and the strengthening of competitiveness. And it is not only exports that, even though you said so, other institutions, domestic and foreign, find that the domestic budget is also, indeed, due mainly to European funds, it has made a significant contribution to economic growth last year. Secondly, consumption, particularly private, which means that people trust again, whether public or state, because of the consolidation that is necessary, I think we all agree here, is still a little behind. First of all, as far as European funds are concerned. I will say that I think that in this one year we have done everything in our power to maximize the use of European funds. Last year we pumped most of this programming period. And of course we have a lot of work to do this year. At the same time as we are dealing with the old financial perspective that we will use the funds of our previous or current financial perspectives in a legal, transparent and economic way, or these old ones, we are also dealing with documents that will enable us to start drawing up new financial perspectives this year. Even with those 11 projects the government is dealing with, but I hope, Mr Bogovich, that you do not force me into an illegal solution. As long as there's no money on the table, these contracts can't be signed. We will do everything we can to ensure that the contracts are signed as soon as possible, but the solution must be legal. I hope you agree with me here. However, as regards measures specifically aimed at the economy, we have adopted a programme of measures, which is a key document of the government in this area, which lists measures in specific areas. I can list particularly important areas in terms of support to small and medium-sized enterprises; I can list below how much resources are available at different institutions, from SID of the Bank to the Enterprise Fund, specifically for lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. I am convinced that in the situation in which our country is, we have done the best we can for people and the economy. However, I am not sure that everyone in this Chamber wants Slovenia to remain a social state, because if not, there would be no constant pressure that more needs to be done on the expenditure side. It is necessary to take into account the budget and to find that if you want to reduce the expenditure of the state budget, as some here suggest, it will be necessary, or should be, to intervene in pensions, in addition to social transfers, and in any case we intend to rationalise the public sector. But I've told you many times that you won't see this film for the government of Alenka Bratushek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovich has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u22	I'm sorry, President, I have to add to the question, but I really haven't learned anything new, what you've just said, and I've heard it a few times before, what you've just said. I asked what your actions are towards greater revenue in the state budget, greater income for people, definitions of how to simplify this country, how to enable the small economy to do more than just new tax burdens. I said that the law we tabled is in the direction of increasing the flat-rate decision. How do you feel about the 50,000-euro limit being raised to 100,000 euros? I have in my hands a document that they sent to all of us, including you, from the Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs, which discusses personal benefits and social security contributions. How do you feel about making 13th, 14th - salary payments without contributions? Your relationship to the social cap? Your attitude towards changing income classes, to the field of labour law, is related to the area of increasing competitiveness? We must once finally realize that the job is creating an economy, not a state, and we must create normal conditions for the economy. And all that you've just listed, in the banking sector, you're running a policy that another government has started, it's being implemented with some delay, or the banks could have already been rehabilitated. I want to know: What are you going to do in this direction and also about the issues related to investment, such as the hydropower plant at the bottom of the Sava? It's useless to just talk and read from documents what we're supposed to do, what we're going to do. Finally, ensure that 75 million European EIB loans can be implemented at a 2% interest rate with a six-year moratorium. That's what another government started. I hope that this government will do so, because I am aware of myself and I want to have a social state in this country and that we will earn it in a way that we will do enough and that people will work, not ask for mercy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you. I am pleased that we are both committed to keeping Slovenia a social state. As far as the document mentioned is concerned, yes, the Ministry of Finance is preparing, or to a greater extent, calculations have already been prepared for the measures proposed. But, Mr Bogovic, if we are to reduce revenues there between €300 million and €500 million, on the other hand, rights should be reduced by the same amount. Which one? Now I'm asking you if we're all really in favour of a social state. But I am absolutely in favour of what you have said, and I think it would also be possible to do so within the framework of the budget we have. This is in some way to exempt the payment of at least the income for this so-called 13th or 14th salary. But as I said, these things can't be thought of, you have to have numbers in front of you. And if we lower taxes on the one hand, on the other hand, we also have to reduce rights. And you have to do it with your hand in your hand. As far as the action is concerned. I said I could count them for you. Now I'm going to try to tell you what these institutions provide for small and medium-sized enterprises. Under the SID loan fund, EUR 500 million is created for small and medium-sized enterprises: a micro-financing programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, a financing programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, a financing programme for small and medium-sized enterprises and a financing programme for R & D in small and medium-sized enterprises. The measures of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund are estimated to bring about 3,000 new jobs. Some 9,000 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises could be supported, of which 820 is already estimated in 2014. Measures taken at the SID Bank shall also be taken. The money that can be received by substantially more favourable small and medium-sized enterprises is, in my opinion, sufficient for these companies at the moment to be able to strengthen their activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u26	I have a procedural proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly on this question and on the answers. I think that this debate is absolutely necessary for us to once, forgive me, I have already said several times, the accounting logic that if we reduce taxes by 300 million, we must also reduce the expenditure by 300 million, turn it into a creative economic logic, and I hope that Minister Dragonja will be involved in this, who has cited some measures that, including through state measures, would make us an environment where we will work more. And I'm sorry, Madam President, I don't share your opinion that this relationship is so direct if we cut someone's incomes now, I don't know, and there's so much less revenue from this, that at the end of the state budget there will be so much less resources. Perhaps, however, there will be a build-up of VAT somewhere, perhaps one of those who would otherwise have gone to the social register will be able to contribute even to the health allowance, to the pension allowance. And here I see these savings. The more people work, the less the budget will have to pay. Slovenian pensions per year are about 4 billion and a half, and one billion and a half of them are paid in cash from the budget. If more people worked, so much less should be saved. Let us reverse this logic of thinking that we will also collect more taxes with more work, not just higher rates. And I think that there are two concepts that fight, not about who wants the social state and who doesn't. We all want a social state, but I know it, and I've been taught since I was a kid that she didn't eat without a job. And by this logic, we also lead the country into the future. When you challenged me — where should we reduce what kind of expenditure? Yeah, let's cut them in part with those expenses you mentioned. For the expenditure of the State subsidy, the subsidy from the State to the economy. That's the logic. As soon as we collect more taxes, we will justly distribute them back through the subsidy. One of your economic ministers and secretary of state has done this for a while, none of them are doing this anymore. On the other hand, we have a new economic minister who has sworn one other logic, the logic of less subsidies, the normal economic environment, the promotion of tourism abroad, the promotion of foreign investment and so on. And here I would like a debate on this in the National Assembly, and above all a shift in the economic and financial policy of this government. In this part we are separated, not in whether anyone wants or does not want a social state. And I think that some of us have also proved by our work in the past, either in the economy or in politics, that we know what to do or what to do. Once again, thank you for those praises that were at the expense of the Minister of Environment and the Minister for Projects, who are now giving economic growth. I hope that this logic will also be complementary on Wednesday and that we will have more revenue in this budget and will then cut future cohesion policy on Wednesday. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u27	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Wednesday, 23 April 2014, in the framework of the votes. The next question to the President of the Government will be raised by Mrs Iva Dimic, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u28	Dear Prime Minister of the Government! The Ombudsman Vlasta Nussdorfer presented the Ombudsman's performance in the last year at the press conference in Ljubljana on 25 February 2014. Human social hardships are at the forefront of their work, followed by violations of workers' rights. The pressing issue is also still the economic and social situation of young people in Slovenia. The Ombudsman stressed that every time a government must show greater concern and sensitivity for disrespecting the social and economic rights of citizens. In our country, however, there are almost 400,000 people living below the poverty line. Poor is already 1 in 5 citizens, which is an alarm and a call for government action in this area. The other area the guardian points to is the position of workers. There are many violations of workers' fundamental rights, including in particular the non-payment of salaries, contributions and other benefits. A large proportion is those workers who receive only minimum wages, who do not in themselves guarantee their decent life and the survival of their families. There are many cases where workers do not receive these salaries and therefore find themselves in a hopeless situation and in social distress. Supervisory institutions are obviously ineffective in preventing such violations. However, the legal proceedings that workers have to handle are long and expensive. To this day, the economic and social situation of young people remains unresolved. At the time of its term of office, the current government undertook to give priority to the employment of young people and to the resolution of their economic situation. After a year in this area, there is no significant movement; there is still a high level of youth unemployment; youth survival remains the burden of parents and social services. Madam President of the Government! I'm asking you: What measures will you propose or take in the area of urgent resolution of the economic and social security of citizens, in particular young people? What is the Government going to do to ensure effective protection of workers' rights to pay their contributions and other benefits? Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you. The word is from the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Even through an active employment policy, the country has a number of subsidies to ensure that people are employed for at least some time. I hope that colleagues in the Slovenian People's Party don't object. By the way, most of the state budget subsidies, do you know where they're headed? Agriculture and agricultural policy, Mr Bogovic. I hope you don't intend to stop that either. I will begin with the violations you have mentioned, Your Honor. The Labour Market Regulation Act, supplementing this law, has protected the situation of agency workers, where there has been a very large number of violations in the past. Then, based on the evaluation of the operation of the work inspection, we have drawn up a new law on the inspection of work where we strengthen inspection, define their competences more clearly, introduce a professional assistant with the aim of decommissioning inspectors on the ground and increase the role of the social partners. In the control of employment and black work, it is said, including exploitation, that the customs service is also involved. As part of a comprehensive policy to prevent the grey economy, we have also taken on the prevention of work and employment in black. As far as young people are concerned, I would like to point out that, despite the opposition's opposition's opposition to the adoption of a law where employers were exempt from payment of contributions, we have reduced the burden of employers by about 16% if they employ a young person indefinitely. Last year, November and December there were 226 such jobs in January and February 1021. I hope that employers will realize that the savings are great and that they will decide on more employment for young people. As I have already mentioned, an active employment policy, so-called public works, which we are subsidising through the state budget, and we are also trying to reduce the pressure on the unemployed as much as possible. However, I would like to say that, despite the difficult financial situation, despite the need to consolidate public finances, there will be no further human rights interventions in 2013, 2014 and 2015. I'm not sure that such an agenda was before the previous government. I am aware of the hardships of people, I am aware that this tribulation is great, but it would be even greater if the national budget did not provide some EUR 1.3 billion for all these needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u32	Madam President of the Government, you have listed in your reply some of the measures taken by your government this year in your work. As has already been said, the measures do not give the right effect. I would like to point out that among young people there is an increasing belief that the solution to their economic and social situation is only employment abroad. And so young people go to countries like Austria, Germany, Australia, New Zealand. In the last four years, 23,000 people have left Slovenia, most young people, because they unfortunately do not see a perspective for their lives in Slovenia. However, if they already see the outlook for their lives and if they find employment, wages or income are so minimal that they cannot afford to survive the family and solve the housing problem. I would like to point out that you have not touched so much, but that workers with a minimum monthly salary are also at risk, which, despite regular employment, have already crossed over from socially disadvantaged workers, especially if employers do not pay their salaries or are irregular. These workers are indeed in severe social distress, because they do not have the right to compensation for salaries from the Guarantee Fund, and the country does not, unfortunately, remain silent with its supervisory mechanisms. It is unacceptable that humanitarian organisations with food packages must take care of the survival of workers. That's why I'm asking you, Madam President: What concrete short- and systemic measures is the Government still planning to reduce the economic and social risks of these groups? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u33	The President of the Government has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Sometimes when I'm standing here in front of you, I feel like I've been running this government on my own for 10 years, and I should have the results it takes to show up in one year. That's impossible. But when I put the numbers on the table, which show that the economic trend is turning, that we have reduced the cost of borrowing, that 40% more people have been employed last month than one year before, and in March, you say that this is nothing. The minimum wage, I think, has increased dramatically in 2011, but I think that the then government has come across a lot of criticism as to how it has harmed the economy. Today, if I understand you correctly, honourable Member, you are suggesting that we raise the minimum wage. The results will show, the results are already showing. With all the numbers we have on the table, I repeat that I am aware that people do not yet feel these positive changes. But what happened to the number of new employees in March, it gives me a lot of optimism, and I think the number of unemployed right now is right there, like when I took over the government. However, I believe that this number will increase from month to month by the end of the year with the restructuring and deleveraging of businesses. People will also feel these good, positive results, which are now only in numbers. And that's our only goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic has a request for a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u36	I propose that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we hold a public debate because people in Slovenia are not even interested in the price of indebtedness, but they are interested in whether they will be able to provide food to the family every day, what will be in the pot and how they will pay their bills. I think it is unacceptable that young people do not find jobs and are actually living by their parents, that this time of parental stay is getting longer, which also burdens the middle and older generation. As far as economic growth is concerned, we have already warned you at the time of the launch of the mandate that it is necessary and that the priority of this government must be economic growth and job creation in order to reduce social distress. We are talking about a better trend in the economy and larger exports, and on the other hand, we just had last week excise duties that are burdensome. But that was not the essence of my question of mission, nor was it the essence of a common agricultural policy where agriculture receives funds from the European budget, not from the state budget. People ask how and who will protect them when even those minimum wages are not paid. That's what I was asking you. Not about raising the minimum wage, but how and what mechanisms will ensure that they receive the minimum wage paid and also that they will have paid contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Wednesday, 23 April 2014, in the framework of the votes. The fourth question will be raised by Mr Jani Möderndorfer Positive Slovenia to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President. Dear President, according to my predecessors, of course, we have heard many things today, so I am asking you, Madam President, the next question. We know that at its 53rd regular session on 10 April 2014, the Government adopted a programme of measures to start up the economy and jobs where key measures are being taken. What matters to us is the following. We know that in 2013 it was successfully created by the Government when it prepared all the necessary legal bases and measures for the resolution of the banking system. But immediately on the other hand, people are asked when and how we are going to run those companies that actually need money from these banks. According to my assessment, there are about 70% of those companies that, due to their lack of capital, cannot obtain new resources. I therefore assume that you have also presented with this Programme of Action the effective functioning of the banking system, which is intended to ensure access to funding sources and also to quality competitive conditions themselves. However, since this programme identifies a number of measures in terms of additional investment in R & D, new investment, export promotion, education and employment, the preparation of the basis and the implementation of measures in the new 2014-2020 programming period, an encouraging business environment and the fight against the grey economy, I am particularly interested in: Which of the measures listed, do you estimate that in the coming period it will be a key which shows already positive trends that could further strengthen Slovenia and restore it to a stable economic growth? I'm also interested in: What is the financial framework for the measures envisaged and what is your assessment of the number of enterprises to be envisaged and to be covered by these measures? How many jobs should be created in the coming period on the basis of these economic measures? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you, too. The word is from the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I think this is the third time I've been saying this today, so maybe those specific numbers that I've mentioned before, if I have to, I can repeat it. But it seems important to me to stress that after last year, when we have focused all our efforts on the rehabilitation of the banking system, that we have stabilised this system and that we are still making our own decisions on what we will do in our country, the next step in the area of the economy is the deleveraging and restructuring of businesses. I wish this thing could run a little faster myself. The fact is that in a few more than 50 companies or 50 cases this debt and restructuring is taking place. These are large cases where many stakeholders are involved. Therefore, it is probably understandable that more time is needed. But I am firmly convinced that in the second half of the year, these steps that we are now taking will also bear fruit. Absolutely creating economic growth and new jobs is our common far-reaching top priority. As I have already said many times today, we managed to take a picture of Slovenia from one year ago substantially or radically. Virtually all institutions have changed their economic forecasts from negative to positive. I know this too today is the third time I have said this, but in March, 8 thousand 500 people were hired again, which is a good 42% more than February and 38% more than March last year. These are the facts. If such a trend continues, we will also achieve the target of 60,000 newly employed people more quickly than we imagined at the time. Many of the measures mentioned in the document are a programme of measures for economic growth and jobs. I have already said that if I divide them into three groups: one is the systemic deleveraging and comprehensive restructuring of companies and the effective functioning of the banking system, the provision of access to favourable sources of financing and the promotion of exports. And all of these three will absolutely be the generator of both economic growth and new jobs. I don't know if all the figures on jobs, how many of them will be out of this measure, or whether we have foreseen that they will be realized, should be repeated. However, it is only from what we are funding from the SID Bank, which we are funding from the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, that we estimate that if companies take advantage of it, we cannot force them to do so, we have created an environment for them to apply for these funds, which will be provided with a few thousand jobs. I'm talking about new jobs. But more importantly, the old ones will also be preserved. Finally, allow me once again to stop at the cost of the debt, because for our country I estimate that this is a key indicator that Slovenia is on the right track at the moment. I suggest that my colleagues take a look at the comparison with other countries, including countries with so-called triples or doubles, or whatever one might have wanted among you, but today they have significantly worse conditions in the financial markets. By the way, our interest rate is the lowest since we entered the euro area. I think that what I have just said shows that we are on the right track and that the measures we are implementing are achieving the goals that we, Positive Slovenia, as a whole, have set for ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you. This concludes with the questions raised by the President of the Government, and I also thank her for the answers given. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 23rd meeting of the assembly. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Chufer, will answer the questions of the Magi. Mr Andrej Visiak related to the State Disbursement Plan. Here you go, Mr. Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you so much for asking. As I have understood these issues, it is how to reduce public debt. I might mention that there are five elements that influence and with which you can contribute in order to reduce public debt. The first two are specific and unique, it is said, on the one hand, by privatisation and on the other hand by decommissioning a bad bank. Both processes are already under way, as you know. And then there are three additional measures. The first is fiscal consolidation. You know that we are actually in a situation where our fiscal deficits are shrinking every year, and we are actually counting on us to get into a situation where we have balanced public finances in due course. The next step is lower public sector funding costs. A number of activities have been carried out in the last year, in fact, that we are debt costs and thus costs which also affect the level of public debt. And the last thing that is equally important is higher economic growth. Economic growth in itself helps to make fiscal consolidation easier and, on the other hand, the share of public debt as a percentage of GDP is declining and, in fact, contributes to the reduction of public debt.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u43	The request to complete the answer has the word mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u44	Honourable President of Parliament, Minister-in-Office, I do not want to complement the reply. I want an answer to my question. I did not ask the Minister how he could reduce the country's theoretical debt, but he counted me five ways, but I asked him when he would start reducing it, with what dynamics, so what was the way and plan of the state's disposal. I asked him, and I am reading a magnetogram of the previous session, how we will repay ourselves in this country, when we will achieve this, when and with what dynamics we will reduce this debt to 60% of the gross domestic product and what concrete measures will be taken. What concrete measures will we first balance public finances, that is to say, achieve fiscal consolidation and then what concrete measures and when will we also be deliberating? We are well aware of all the prescribed debt-debt frameworks in the European Union, when we are going to have to close the excess public debt more than 60% quickly. By the way, Slovenia's public debt will already exceed 80% of gross domestic product this year. We have increased it in six years by 20 billion or by 60 % of gross domestic product, by 60% in six years. And the analysis of current expenditure and revenue shows that current expenditure, that is, real wages, various subsidies, interest for over one billion over tax and non-tax revenue in the budget. It's called a total fiscal imbalance. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer: When will we achieve a balanced budget in this country? And by what basic measures? When and with what dynamic will we reduce public debt and when will we achieve that the public debt will be 60% of the gross domestic product?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Maybe I wasn't clear enough in my answer, but if I could explain more. The privatisation process and the decommissioning process of the bad bank, both of them have already started and both have made a significant contribution to reducing public debt. Privatisation is expected to close a large part of these 15 companies in the privatisation process already this year, something is likely to happen next year. The decommissioning of a bad bank is determined by law in five years. As far as fiscal consolidation is concerned, you know that we are talking about adopting a fiscal rule on how to balance public finances. Approximately 2017 is the period by which public finances actually begin to consolidate. You also know that we already have a primary balance in the budget this year, which means that, without taking into account interest, there is a surplus of revenue over expenditure. As regards economic growth, which has a significant impact on the reduction of public debt, after we have now had about five years now, when public debt has increased and economic growth has fallen and these scissors have increased, we have come into a situation where this trend has turned and will also start to decline gradually. I would not explain in particular the individual measures for economic growth now, because it could probably be too long, but most of the things that were done last year have essentially contributed to the fact that we can have higher economic growth. The last measure I mentioned, the lower funding costs, you have seen how the interest rate has fallen on international markets, and I think we can still have the potential to further reduce interest rates and, in fact, contribute to stabilisation and reduce public debt. If we look at how this will all come together, we know that we are now in the EDP process, the surplus budget deficit that will be eliminated for 2015, and then we will come into the excessive public debt process and the procedure in which the state of Slovenia has to reduce the surplus of its public debt by more than 60% each year.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u48	Madam Vice-President, I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we hold a debate in Parliament on this answer, because I think this is very important for the future of Slovenia and the Slovenians. Dear Minister, I think it's the responsibility of the state for the current expenditure that we're doing, the theft of the young generation. We hire money, we spend it, and the young generation will pay it off. It's the end of the young generation. I think that's totally unacceptable. I have done a little analysis myself on the basis of the final accounts and the budgets adopted, and I note that everything since 2008 when we had current expenditure – current expenditure includes salaries in the wider public sector with contributions, I have included various subsidies and transfers, as well as interest payments, mainly, and in 2008 the country's current expenditure was less than current revenue. Current revenue, however, is tax and non-tax revenue. Accurately, current expenditure in 2008 was 7 billion and current revenue was 8.2 billion. From then on, the distinguished minister, until this year and to the coming years, we have more than a billion current expenditure than tax and non-tax revenues or current revenues. That's worrying. And you're telling me today that if we lose interest this year, we'll have a flat budget. But interest is 1.2 billion euros! We can't think of it, it's a good part, it's a good item in this country's running expenditure, and we have to pay it for what we've rented in the past, so we can get any more loans anywhere. So I want to tell you that the consolidation of public finances without prejudice to current expenditure, given how much people and companies pay us, is impossible. And I expected at least one measure from you that would go this way, because with these running expenses we will not endure. I'm most afraid of this, Minister, that you'll be dealing with the surplus by selling state property. But when these sales are over — and these sales are significantly less than our surplus public debt — that we will again fall into a new debt spiral. So allow me, I estimate that the government has no concrete plan to reduce the deficit, because these were godly desires, as you stated. Getting the economy started — fine, I want it, but it hasn’t turned out yet, and at least to show itself to that extent. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a debate in Parliament on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal in the framework of the votes. The following reply goes to Mr Franz Breznik, concerning the re-programmes of loans.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much for this question. I would just like to point out that deleveraging is an important process on the way to normalisation, is very high on the priority scale, and this is a moment in progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your answer. The next question asked the Minister for the last time is Dr Vinko Gorenak, regarding the financing of local projects from European cohesion funds. Here you go, Mr. Minister Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much for this question. With regard to this issue relating to co-financing projects from European cohesion funds, I would like to begin by explaining that the 2014 budget for cohesion policy included EUR 166 million in the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, of which EUR 138 million in European funds and EUR 27.3 million in Slovenian participation. This is significantly more than in previous years, when only around €36 million has been planned and spent on average for each year. I must say, that's what much is planned for this year. But we also see that because we are nearing the end of the cohesion period, the speed of consumption of cohesion funds actually increases significantly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Well, now, Minister, I don't know if you've read the question or not, but wherever we're going in Slovenia, our group of Members, you know, it's a month's work on visits, they're warning us that there's no means for local projects for these purposes. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I'm informed here that time has been spent in the previous session. To me, I must say, this matter is a bit unusual, but this time I will respect the suggestions suggested to me by the secretary general, so respectable Dr. Gorenak. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u56	You'd do well to check that out, because I don't think that's true. That's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u57	We'll check it out. However, there is a possibility of a procedural proposal and you can take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'll be in this. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u59	I'm sorry, Dr. Gorenak, we'll go our separate ways now. That would be a question for which, unfortunately, you didn't have enough time. I believe that the Minister has seen what the question is, so I now give him the floor to complete the answer, and then you have the opportunity to make a procedural proposal. Here you go, Minister Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u60	I'm sorry, I couldn't figure out what the question was.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u61	Twice awkward, now we're kind of in the middle of something, and the minister hasn't figured out what the question is yet. Dear Minister, I suggest you look at what the basic question is and try to complement your answer with some additional information. Otherwise, if you'd like, this will go unanswered, and I'll give you my word immediately to Dr. Gorenak. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u62	I can say the next thing about that. The answer was that everything is best, that money is more and more. But the facts, Minister, are not like that. As early as last December, I can only say one example, a decision was signed for the six municipalities of the Kozjansk Region and the Water Facility. The situation is such that the congregations have been borrowing all the funds for three months because the state does not have the money to sign. This was the situation when I wrote this question. Then we had the EU Affairs Committee led by Mr Horvat and after helping you answer the question, after that you found the money and signed this contract in Šmar near Jelš. So it was a simple answer that I was expecting. Vice-President, I cannot, given that the matter has been realized that the treaty has been signed, I cannot propose a debate on this subject. But I can see that the minister really didn't look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The Minister is now speechless because this was a procedural proposal. We will vote on it in the framework of the votes. The next is Mr Jože Tanko, or the Minister's reply to Mr Jože Tank's question regarding the use of budgetary money.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much for this question. I must admit that I am also not sure here that I have fully understood the question. I understand that this relates to what are the priorities for the allocation of budgetary resources. I might say that the priorities are set by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in Parliament, I think last November. For once, I'd end up here with an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. You want a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much. That's why we're where we are. If you have read the magnetogram of my question, then you would probably also know the intent or emphasis of my question. And I'll tell you some things again. Last year, in one year, the state committed itself to one budget to about €8 billion. Under this budget, we cannot find a few million euros, say 20 million euros for Urgenca in the Clinical Centre or a few ten million euros for development axes or for investments in the road or rail network. The few €10 million represents a quarter of all commitments. In fact, the country cannot provide some money for certain projects to be implemented. The fact that the situation is worse is similar in European projects. For cohesion, for example, the country should provide €35 million to cover €230 million of investment over two years, but the state cannot. By giving me more VAT for these 230 million euros than would be a state contribution, and at the same time, the revenue or payment of contributions and salaries would give me an additional EUR 10.15 million in terms of the structure of this. And even in such projects, when we make a commercial plus, if I say so, does not provide partner work, that is to say, that does not result in VAT being converted and therefore no additional contributions and taxes on gross salaries, etc. So, even where the country has an evident profit, there is no such investment. Which is why I'm asking about priorities. We have European funds available, we have bank resources available, and the country does not put together a project that would obviously benefit – not just the country, but also people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u68	Perhaps only this would explain that, in fact, on 26 March, the Government accepted the smooth implementation of cohesion policy projects, as you mentioned, and thus ensured additional spending rights of EUR 100 million. Here I must say that I do not think your comments are entirely justified because exactly what you proposed was done on 26 March.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u69	Here you go, Mr. Tanko. Procedural proposal. It's time to wait a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman! I propose that we hold a debate on the failure of the Minister in the National Assembly, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The questions I have raised are justified. They are supported by documents, numbers and decisions of the Government. As regards cohesion funds, the government does not release the start of investments because it does not agree to start investments, while it should provide €35 million in the budget in order to start these investments. Once the investment process had been completed, at least €40 million would have come from VAT, even more so because VAT is higher than 20%, it is 22%, and certainly because roughly in the structure of these investments the cost of 40 % would have been paid from this title, out of these 200 million more money from social security contributions and for wage burdens and probably something for income. Even with such a positive investment as the use of European funds, where the country would obviously earn some ten million euros, while ensuring all the needs of citizens on the issue of drinking water, in the area of 11 areas in Slovenia, the state does not provide a source and the start of investments is blocked. That's unacceptable. The second problem is that the country will now easily find 160 million euros in money for intervention in the Bank of Celje. The Bank of Celje is probably not a key priority for State intervention with budgetary resources or debt, but it does not find money for what is the country's original jurisdiction. This is, for example, an investment in health institutions, emergency centres, development and so on. This is a completely flawed concept. This is the first time that we have been alerted to the decision of the Government and Banka Slovenije to intervene in two private banks with a billion-dollar guarantee. You've already cashed almost 200 million in both banks, a few months before the forcible settlement, if I say so, then you've made a billion-dollar guarantee. There's no problem with that. Now there is no problem for Bank Celje 160 million. But when we need some change to relax, let's say European projects, a million problems, a thousand questions and bureaucratic obstacles over and over again. Madam President, I would like to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the Minister's failure to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal in the framework of the votes. Now, however, the final question for the Minister of Finance in the context of the unanswered previous answers concerning Mr Joseph Horvat's question regarding the implementation of European Union projects. Here you go, Minister Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Actually, I've read two questions from the magnetogram. The first relates to amendments to the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014-2015, which would ease the way in which the Government would count the number of employees in the public sector and actually achieve the objective of reducing the number of employees in the public sector. We have had this debate in the government, and the law itself has not yet been proposed to Parliament and, in fact, part of the discussion is actually still going on. The second issue is the co-financing of projects from individual local communities relating to the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Space. I think we've had some similar questions in the course of this session. What I might point out is that, in essence, additional funds for drawing, additional projects and additional funds for drawing on European funds can be obtained only after these European funds are made available, in fact, for the prior approval of projects for which funds are not provided, otherwise they may appear attractive, but are certainly illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Thank you, Minister, for your part of the answers. I wanted to say more or less in my parliamentary question that, of course, I agree when it comes to efforts to reduce the number of employees in the public sector. Of course, we can't do a linear reduction here. We need to be careful where we have to have sufficient human resources. And I have also shown in the question of the Member State that where it comes to the human resources potential of the ongoing implementation or implementation of European projects, we need to be very careful there. In a way, I am pleased that, on the basis of the conclusions of the Committee on European Union Affairs, which I am chairing, on 25 March this year, the Government immediately made budgetary transfers and provided a good 100 million to continue the implementation of cohesion projects, particularly environmental projects, water supply and so on. But that's just the first step, that's probably what we both know, Mr. Secretary. It's not over yet. We still have a lot of money in the European cash register that we need to pump. Look, there are some issues that are related both to ensuring their own financial participation in drawing on European funds as well as to ensuring human resources potential, because people who drive European projects need to be staffed and must be sufficient. I'm really curious right now, you said the marriage isn't over yet, but I'm still interested, Mr. Minister: How will you defend the government, what will be the continuation of the human resources policy in the part where European projects are being implemented?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u76	I will, and I have always advocated that we need competent people who know not only projects, but also something else to read and do accordingly, regardless of the source of funding. I think that the current debate is in the direction that, in fact, the quota of people who are actually financed from European funds does not belong to the percentage we have as a goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič, Minister of Defence, is next in line to answer the question raised by Mr Ljubo Žnidar regarding airspace closures. Here you go, Minister Jakic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member. In the last period, there have been several articles in the media that talked about the damage that should have been caused by the closure of airspace over the Poček military exercise. Unfortunately, we do not have such specific data on the damage caused by the occasional closure of airspace over the Poček range, since we have never received such requirements in this regard, but we have not been able to understand even from these media releases that have been presented. First of all, I must stress that all airspace closures are planned through civil aviation authorities in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with national and international regulations. The Slovenian army, when closing airspace over the Poček training centre, does not in any way seek will as is shown in the public eye. Operational procedures concerning the optimal use of airspace between the competent services in the country are described as civil and military, are well-managed and are also in place at the discretion of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. As you know, civil and military cooperation in the use of airspace is regulated by European and national legislation. During March, my colleague, Minister Omerzel, and I already signed the appointment of the Airspace Management Committee, which includes representatives of both civil and military aviation authorities in the Republic of Slovenia. The appointment of this Committee means the further implementation of European rules on the flexible use of airspace. This committee has started its work and will also examine how and also look for ways to improve the current situation. I believe that this is also a space for professional dialogue between the various stakeholders. I would like the debate from the media to be translated into professional circles, and I expect that this is where this discussion is supposed to begin. But in particular, the airspace above the exercise is divided into several zones, most often using a zone called LJR4, which is directly above the Poček training centre and has no impact on air traffic in Slovenia. The zone is also located outside the territory of the territorial airport. Zones with which a slightly wider area is closed are zones that we call LJR6 A, B and C. These prohibitions are, of course, general aviation because they fly under visual visibility conditions. It's called non-commercial flight. In 2012, we had these zones closed 34 times and in 2013 14 times, for a total duration of 27 hours. However, LJR5 is also an area of the existing sports airport, but the closure of this zone is used mainly in the morning within the working days. This area is closed about 80 hours a year. Prison is applied to non-commercial flights flying at low altitudes, called aeroclubs and so on. In addition, it should be pointed out that the occasional closure of any zone does not in any way constitute the closure of air traffic for Portorož airport as it attempts to be made public. It is only necessary to avoid such closed zones. So in our opinion and calculations, if the zone over Počkom is closed, the flight from Ljubljana to Portorož is 5 minutes longer. This means that they must avoid being closed on the north side or the south side. And if you count the hour of 150 euros, that's 5 minutes, you can figure out how much more the one who flies has to pay. But in the second part, I might even give you a more concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u80	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I see that progress in this area is by appointment and during ministerial substantive coordination, this is said between your Ministry and the Ministry of Infrastructure, because this committee is supposed to continue, this is said in the future, somewhat more professionally and by involving a truly wide range of stakeholders in the closure of airspace, to determine the closures themselves in the future. Somehow I don't know why such an increase in airspace closure compared to last year's flight or flying back. This is a significant increase in space. In March, for 25 days, of course, we are not talking about the whole deadline, but there have been 25 days of closure, 16 days for April, no forecast for the month of May. We know the state of the economy, in particular the tourist economy, we know that in the tourism sector in the world, the most money is turned around, and even in Slovenia tourism is extremely important, so that tourists really fight for every tourist euro. Will the situation now improve in this area, or will the prison be as time-consuming in the future as it has now been in these two months?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Minister. Mr. Žnidar, turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much for the additional question. The answer is simple. We're planning ahead anyway. On 4 April, the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces organised a press conference at which he presented the key exercises in 2014. In the context of the press conference, the expected airspace closures in the Poček area were also presented. It is interesting that at this press conference, despite the fact that the Director of Portoro airport was invited, where he could also explain when the closures should have taken place, the Director did not attend. But of course it doesn't mean anything. The total prison of all zones in 2012 amounted to 279 hours; in 2013 we reduced this to 116 hours, and in 2014, according to the planned volume published by the Slovenian Armed Forces on 4 April, the prison size was around 200 hours, says less than in 2012 and more than 2013. However, a slightly higher prison frequency is expected during the first half of the year due to the exercises to be carried out during this period. Of course, I agree with you here, and given that you know yourself as the former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure for these arrangements, we are all really aware that the number of hours of closing zones has to be reduced in some way and closed only in the light of the actual needs on the site, so we have also reduced them. Before that, I have already said how we try to close the story in the last few weeks, but I understand this concern about the economy in particular. However, I must say that part of this so-called damage that is supposed to be caused to the economy, particularly tourism, relates to the very airport of Portorož, which is not directly – it is said that the zones that are above Počko, as I said before, can be avoided. There is another major problem for tourists to arrive at Portoro airport, which is too short a runway, and it is already so problematic for tourists to land there. Most of Falcon's slightly larger planes have to land at the marketing airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Would you like another word for the motion? Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I propose that, in accordance with Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the subject, we hold a broader debate, because in a matter such as the closure of airspace, very many stakeholders are involved and the restrictions on airspace have a direct impact on the tourism economy in our country. This is an important revenue, I would say that we are not just looking at that work, such as airport charges, but we need to look at the matter more broadly, because a little less than 30,000 passengers per year actually spend a lot of money on us, and this is the income of tourism. I therefore propose that a number of stakeholders be included in the debate on this subject and that a public debate be held on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal in the framework of the votes. We are now moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members for this session, to the first round, in which the first word of Mateja Pučnik is given to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikala.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! Last week, a new proposal from the Higher Education Act was published on the Ministry of Education's website, and this prompted demonstrations of students and some trade unions working in the field of education and education, as well as others, where they wanted to draw attention to the harmful consequences of the new law on higher education. Students and others protested against tuition and commercialisation of higher education because they are fighting for full public funding, universally accessible and democratically planned higher education as we could read in the media. They also report to the Minister that the Ministry has only chosen participants in the negotiations on a bill to be passed behind closed doors. Many are convinced that the law introduces tuition in a regular study and deepens the commercialisation of universities. The law makes it possible to charge for the first study if someone wants to enroll in a college where the tender places are already occupied. The guardian mentioned by the Minister, which includes the new bill, has been declared inappropriate and should also allow the Minister to intervene in the work of the university. The representative of the Slovenian High School Union also stressed that the bill fully halts the advancement of workers at universities and also raises questions about salaries that will depend directly on the contribution of students. Some warn that not only parts of the law are problematic, but the whole law requires its rejection. They say that if this law is adopted, tuition will also be introduced in a regular study and will become something extraordinary instead of something normal. They also see the problem that the level of tuition in marriage is not limited. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, How do you respond to the obvious that you have only coordinated with some stakeholders and not all working groups in the area of higher education? How can you ensure that there will be no tuition if it is written in the law? How do you respond to the university union about the advancement of the faculty workers? Will you also consider withdrawing this bill and preparing a new proposal that will be acceptable to all because of great opposition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dr. Pickalo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u88	Madam Vice President! Madam Members, thank you for this question. I must say that I am very pleased that, for the second time in this mandate, we are all together against commercialisation, against the granting of new concessions, especially such illegal, unconstitutional and so on. I must say, it is my great pleasure that the SDS Group, if I understand correctly, has joined me in this regard. We all agree that the commercialisation of higher education is not good. We all know that this company's promotion is based on free higher education and that this is also a key development potential that this country must have and, of course, will also realize. As far as the new law on higher education is concerned, I do not think those who have demonstrated would like to argue with them because my principle is to work for a negotiating table or to negotiate, not outside the street, I would like to say that these negotiations are going on. Far from making this law or proposal or version you have to be the last. But I can also say that negotiations are also ongoing this week, so we have no intention because negotiations are going very well, we have no intention of withdrawing the proposal. But I'm sure we'll make it better. There's no doubt about that. We will arrange the conditions for the operation of schools so that it will no longer be possible to have a private school in a hotel where students’ money is milked and then some diplomas are awarded, for which employers know from afar how valuable they are. We'll arrange for accreditation. We will also arrange what you call the financing of higher education. But funding for higher education so that it will no longer be, as is now regulated in the regulation, which can be amended several times a year, but will be regulated by law, will be stable and clearly predictable. However, as far as tuition is concerned, anyone who has read the law can read in Article 118 that this government and my personal position is that we are against tuition, and everyone will be able to enter a full or partial free study if they only meet the conditions, regardless of age. It's an extra thing that hasn't been done so far. So regardless of age, we're talking about lifelong learning. That even at 30 or more, if they have not yet taken advantage of this issue, they will be able to sign up and complete free college studies. I think that this is extremely important and also means a new development potential for this country. As for the advancement of individual higher education teachers, we do not make any special changes in this law. The system is already as it is, and here we do not have exactly the specific intentions of anything with regard to progress. I hope you mean progressing into titles among professors, extraordinary, regular professors and, of course, assistants. However, as regards the second part of your question, the part where you spoke about payment, it is that all payments at public universities are regulated by the system of salaries of public servants, and this also applies to higher education teachers and higher education staff. This will continue to apply. This, of course, I can assure you, and progress is not in any way related to the method of study. If you speak, you did not explicitly say this, but if you talk about the paying part of the study, then in the part where the present students who will pay for the studies will pay it because they do not meet the conditions for free study, and that part of the payment will be regulated by civil law and individual teachers will receive an additional payment for this money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Colonel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much for this part of the answer, Your Honor. He likes it when we talk about higher education, and you usually start with the concessions you've taken away with the accreditations, etc. But I wanted to talk a little bit more about the problem of a paying study, because I think it is also the biggest problem and this part of the law also presents students' organisations the biggest problem. I don't know, I'm listening to you, and I want to hear what you've said, but I'm still sure that even in a regular study the tuition will be foreseen and foreseen, and I think if you really wanted to completely avoid these tuition fees, you could simply cross them out of the law, so that we don't just talk about tuition anymore. They have also pointed out in the student organisation, although I know they have not joined the demonstrations, that their proposals have not been taken into account, namely they themselves advocate that this percentage of these paying study places should be reduced from 40 to 20 paying places. At the same time, only one graduate year remains for the first and second stages of the study and they are working for two years in the student organisation. Dear Minister! Nevertheless, I would like to ask you, though you say that the negotiations will continue,: To what extent will you give in, to what extent will you negotiate? Will you also give up on the share of paying study places? And lastly, you said you wouldn't withdraw from the law: Whether the law is not harmonised and many oppose it, you will still submit it to the government or to the procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Here you go. Complementary response, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I think you've already answered very well. The law is not adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. And what the National Assembly decides about this law will also apply. And so it is, and so it always was I think we installed a lot of fuses so that what you're saying today won't happen. [[..]] However, while we are at the point of putting an end to what is now called an extraordinary study, and we say that we simply do not have it – a paying study is this, then of course we run into something else and are called the right of everyone to education. Imagine a bunch of life situations when, on the 18th, 19th and up to 24th, you may not have completed a study for this or that reason, you spent the right to free education, and if the proposal you're proposing was now announced, then you would never be able to pay it later in life because you won't have that right. The right to study runs under the right of access to studies. And I hope that everyone who talks about this is aware of that. I think it is important that we give everyone in this society an opportunity to educate themselves, even if it is possible that when there is a time of chronological education, they have not been successful. And believe me, there are a lot of situations like this in people. Otherwise, it is our intention to organise higher education as much as possible also from the point of view of fictitious entries, that this would be less, as we all know, the abuse of tax money, and where we need it the least, because of course we also know that in higher education, compared to other countries, some money is missing from the OECD averages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. The next is Mr Jasen Ribič, who has a question for the Minister, who is absent, for Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you. Your Honor! Slovenia has major budget problems, we are all familiar with this. For this reason, among others, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has stopped virtually all investments. It is completely incomprehensible, however, that almost completed investments have also been stopped, which means that the cost of maintaining unfinished facilities and other emergency measures can also be higher than completion. That's why I'm asking the minister: Will you reconsider this in the Ministry and in the bodies in your membership? How will you provide the conditions for completion of works on investments in road infrastructure that are just before completion? Some municipalities have been informed by the Ministry that for 6 months it has moved the start of works under signed contracts as well as selected contractors. I want to know: Do you already have assurance that these works will actually begin? The problem is not only stopping parts of road sections, but also increasing problems by delaying road renewal. Costs are already incurred by shutting down parts, and costs are only increased by transferring the remedial measures. Current investments need to be completed, as otherwise late interest will have to be paid to operators. There are a number of cases where municipalities have provided means for the reconstruction or reconstruction of certain road sections and have already begun work, co-financing for example for sidewalks along state roads, sewerage, while the country has signed contracts with the contractor with parts of the delay, even though it is a few hundred metres long section of the state road. I am aware of the lack of resources in the state budget. We have already warned you about all the dangerous so drastic cuts in road infrastructure maintenance in our parliamentary group when the budgets for 2014 and 2015 were adopted, but you did not listen to us at the time. You ensured that investments could be made by redistributing funds. I want to know: Where are these funds now? What's going on here? Are we increasing those black spots? What's wrong with traffic safety? I think it would be right for me to get an oral response on this at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your proposal. Your question will be included in the next session. The next is Mr Dragan Bosic, who has a question for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Pikala. Here you go, Mr. Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you. Dear Minister, in the legislative process there is a proposal for a law on bridging the insurance of professional athletes. Today he was removed from the agenda due to improper amendments. I think it's been postponed to a regular May session. This proposal is a very spirit-stricken proposal, which aims to benefit sportsmen. When we discussed the matter on the Committee, we all agreed on the objective and purpose that is good, and that is what we all agreed on, but not the best. I have read the opinion of the Government of the 48th meeting, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the opinion of the State Council. There are concerns everywhere that are justified and justified. But there was a problem that lasted a long time, and in all that time there was not enough will or knowledge, I don’t know what else to say to save myself. The question you have before you is, in principle, quite specific. Since a six-month deadline has been announced on your part to address this issue properly, I would like to know: What has been done so far, and what else is being planned? I'm interested in the real implementation of this law at the scheduled time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u98	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! We agree that the purpose and purpose of the law are good. We know that we need to settle this matter with regard to athletes. But it is as you said, otherwise I may use slightly different words, the implementation in the law is extremely weak.As our professional services at the Ministry have reviewed this law, they see a number of potential future problems. We are now talking, of course, about a law not proposed by the Government, but proposed by a group of Members. You know exactly where the issue of this law is. The essence of the problem is in poor or, say, non-systemic solutions, particularly with regard to taxes, tax reliefs and other matters that we all know are regulated in tax legislation in this country, but not in sectoral legislation. There's probably other things we should be dealing with. Indeed, as you say, the government has made a commitment to prepare its proposal for the law within six months. At the moment, we have an idea point, but I would like to say it on the committee, and I would say it here in public if the proposer would give us a hand, and if he were willing to talk to us about these non-systemic and others, let's say poorly resolved requirements so that we might be able to take part in this initial bill. Otherwise, we have nothing left but to oppose the proposal and, later, when it is adopted, if it is adopted, we also propose a new law. What I'm saying is maybe we're trying to work things out again already in this proposed law. But unfortunately, as you saw on the committee for the last time, there wasn't much of a hearing for such comments. I think we still have time and it is only right that we may run another round and try to harmonise the text already proposed in a way that will be good, that it will also be appropriate at the implementation level and that there will be no non-systematicity as regards the tax reliefs of specific professional groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Bosic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you, for that part of the answer. But I told the introductions earlier that I know the problems and I understand that this is the area of tax legislation. But it is in principle that if we disagree or disagree with the proposal of the proposer, the right group of Members, my question was about your solution. This is where I've noticed two things. One is to coordinate with the proponents and to come to a good solution, but if not, and if this proposal persists at this stage, I would be interested, you said, on an ideal level is the law: How realistic would it be then to expect your marriage if it hadn't gone forward? Above all, two concerns, which have also been expressed by the Council of State, are the consideration of the solidarity moment and the expansion of the pool to cover the athletes envisaged by this bridge fund. You betcha, those two. How real is that, I wonder, in case there's no further progress? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Bosic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u102	Look, if we made a commitment, then we will absolutely try to realize it. I think it was 25. 2, so it's 6. 3. Then again, in late August, in early September, of course, we should bring the law with some other solutions to the National Assembly. And that's what we'd do. But I still think it's better if we try to coordinate on this option now, see if we can come together or not. Otherwise, we have to wait and then we can submit a novel if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Cuz has a question for the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Omerzel. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me start by saying that I would like to have an answer in writing. Today I have decided because in the whole lower Podravje stands or the construction of large infrastructure projects is stopped, a question is asked, which this time will not be about the motorway section Drazenci-Gruškovje or the modernisation of the railway line Prague-Hodoš, but about the construction of the fast road Ptuj-Ormož. The process of placing the Ptuj-Omoz road itself started before 1996 and since today it is almost 20 years from what started the project and nothing has been done in practice, we can ask ourselves what they are doing at the Ministry. The only thing from the project was that the Puhov Bridge was built and the connection between Ptuv and Markovci was opened, where the State Spatial Plan has been adopted for more than 10 years. On the basis of the 2012 Decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the preparation of the State Spatial Plan in this area went into a phase of stillness until further verification. We also received an answer from Dars a few weeks or months ago that the Markovci-Gorišnica section cannot begin to build at all until the link between the Ptuj-Markovci section is known in the space, since it has an impact on the implementation of the interconnection of sections. More. Until the section of Ptuj-Markovci is built, also the road from Markovts to Gorišnica and forward to Ormož traffic can by no means be dedicated or functional. Due to the ongoing placement procedures in the Ptuj-Markovci section and the final decision of the Government on investment, it is impossible to start a new project documentation at the Markovci-Gorišnica section. Due to the circumstances of the resolution already mentioned and the decision on the continuation of the two-passenger road link Ptuj-Ormož, there is no activity to continue the work at the section of Gorišnica-Ormož. Since this was at the beginning of this year or the end of last year, I am still interested in: What stage is this project at? Of course, I hope that the minister will not answer to me, but to anyone who is hurt.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have taken your initiative in writing. The following is Mrs Ludmila Novak, who has a question for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Pikala.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u106	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Secretary-General! In 2006 the Ministry of Education and Sport presented the project Investments in secondary school space. The Maribor High School Network. The main purpose of the project was to invest in secondary school space and, on the basis of new spatial solutions in Maribor, to renovate educational programmes in the field of vocational and vocational education, in line with the needs of the local economy, thereby encouraging the interest of the economy to participate more actively in the development of vocational and professional education programmes in Maribor and the environment. Several purchases and sales of school facilities were carried out in the framework of the project and, as a result, some relocations were carried out. I was approached by a delegation from Maribor's Central Trade School, who does not have the right information about whether this high school will also move to another location, although this location now meets all the conditions for successful operation, the normal functioning of the school. Since there is also a change in school management at this time, the world does not have the right information and is very concerned about what is actually going on around this migration. Then, in 2008, it was even accepted, signed some agreement between the Ministry, the Central Trade School and the Central Guest School that the school remained at the current location on Mladinski Street 14.a. Now more and more information is being given to move and ask: Has the Ministry also examined the opinion of the school council that the new location is inappropriate and why should this school actually change the place of its operation?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. Dr. Pickalo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much, I must say, for this question as well. In general, I don't think they need to be concerned about not having information. We have spoken with the management of all these schools not once, but several times with the mayor of the Municipality of Maribor. So it's not, as it may sound now, any kind of soloist action or anything, but it goes, as I said at the beginning of the mandate, we always want to talk to the stakeholders, so with the local community and with all those who are involved in this process in one way or another. As far as your very specific questions are concerned. I can say that, of course, the Ministry always takes account of the arrangements, including the one from 2008 and 2006 etc., if the state budget provides the necessary resources to enable us to implement all these arrangements. As far as your very specific question is concerned, whether we are studying the answers or the materials and suggestions provided. Yeah. We study, carefully and thoroughly examine everything we receive. And in the future, we will also look carefully at the valid arguments, the proposals. You must understand, however, that we are in this budget, and I will say, at home, slightly shorter on investment funds or funds to provide material conditions, and our priority concerns must be, as far as this is concerned, the intention of spending budgetary resources. And as you well know, in Maribor in the last few years, we have paid more than €1.5 million for the rent of some secondary schools. And it is also our concern that we, of course, deal carefully with budgetary resources in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Here's another word, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u110	I understand your concern that you have to save, but I'm still asking the question again: Why is the move of the High School of Commerce, which has enough space in its current location, so urgent that this school must move elsewhere? When you were talking about negotiating with the management of schools, I would like to remind you that the current director of the Central Trade School is concluding his mandate and will become, I don't know, the director or director of the centre, where this school is now to move, while the School Council has not been sufficiently informed. Therefore, I would just like to suggest or point out that, however, you should check whether there are any personal interests associated with this move, or whether it is indeed necessary that a school that has a regulated space should move elsewhere, and who will now move to these premises now occupied by the Central School of Commerce. My proposal is going this way to check it out. However, I received information that you sent a letter to both schools on 14 April 2014 saying that solutions should be coordinated between the Directorate and the management of both schools. So the management of this school opposes moving, the School Council does not have the right information because the principal is leaving and will become the director of the centre where this school is supposed to move. Please investigate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Here's another word for the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I have to say thank you for that tip. I'd like to say something. You're making this a fact. This is not a done fact. So I don't want us to come out of this now, that's the way it is, and then everything else will happen. No, nothing so far has been decided on this one hundred percent. I think it is right that now that we are in this process of negotiation and so on, we will also look at what you said and then we will agree, we will only agree on a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Dr. Pickalo. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u114	Let me just add an explanation. This letter says that the school will move 1. 9. and that funds have already been reserved at the Ministry for the acquisition of new classrooms. I'm glad if it's not a fact and you'll explore it. But I will not ask for a debate in the National Assembly because this is not the topic of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u115	We'll take that as well. Thank you very much for your question and answer. Next up, it's mag. Majda Potrat with a question for the Minister of Culture, Dr. Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Tomorrow will be World Book Day, and, honourable Minister, my question is likely to fit very well into this context, especially because there was a lot of concern about the fate of the Slovenian book when it comes to activities during the week of the book. My question is very short, but it's probably quite complicated: With what measures does the Ministry of Culture, at the time of market logic, exercise public interest in the book? I am aware that the Single Price Act has been passed, that the Public Book Agency works, but it is also not possible to overlook the fact that the Youth Book has been sold. The third attempt to sell the over-indebted Youth Book – that it is in such a situation – is, of course, the responsibility of the owner of Zvona Two – raises a number of questions that go into the field related to the promotion of reading, publishing and the protection of intellectual property and copyright. A lot of this, as it is said, may be linked to both solutions, but the fact is, how the Single Price Act will affect the book cannot be determined yet because it will only show its effects. The public agency for the book and the library refund already show some results, but the question remains how Slovenian publishing and the position of the Slovenian book will be affected by this particular matter, which is related to the reselling of the Youth Book. Here we heard a number of questions why the Ministry of Culture is not as similar as the Ministry of Economy, which is looking for ways to save different economic operators, has also reached out with some more concrete solutions to the resolution of the Youth Book. Especially since we already have some experience with Cankar's label and some other literature. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u118	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mrs Potrata, thank you very much for this really current question. There is much talk in the book over the past 14 days about the fact that the long-standing process of selling our largest publication, which is not only the largest publication, but also the actual infrastructure foundation of the Slovenian publishing industry, has been sold. There's a lot going on with me on this question. In the first place, how is it possible that our largest label has been sold with such strong cultural capital as long as the buyers have not been hardened? I am surprised, of course, that, at the end of this last phase, when big initiatives were taking place, from a civil society initiative, along with a book that organised a very wide and brought together a lot of players in the book market, but at the same time somehow failed to take this last step and qualify as a buyer. It is also surprising that in the past we have been so calmly accompanied by all together by a far-out irresponsible owner of Zvon Two, who has actually put the Youth Book in this position. In recent weeks, I am surprised that any solution, as you know, was first played by a customer from Lithuania, then actually made a sale by Learning from Tržič, that none of these buyers was actually good. First of all, the question was that it was not good if the Slovenian label was purchased by a foreign publishing company, now that it had bought the Slovenian Customer Youth Book, there were also numerous questions here, and it must be understood that a certain fear exists here. It is because the Youth Book is, in this production sense, a publication that covers an extremely wide and rich programme, both in terms of literature, children's books, periodicals and other programmes related to the dissemination of reading culture and literacy. In fact, the second part of the concern is even more pronounced, and this is the operation of the bookstore network, the Youth Book owns some over 50 bookstores throughout Slovenia, and these bookstores are actually key points that allow the accessibility of book production throughout Slovenia for all other publishers. What does all the other publishers mean, what does Slovenian publishing mean? In Slovenia, between 2009 and 2012, between 6,000 500 and 5,000 500 books are published annually. Last year, in 2013, this number of books published for the first time fell radically as a result of the crisis to 4 thousand 800 and several other book titles. Such a radical reduction is not exactly recorded in the publication of literature, nor in children's books, which we can explain in our own view, because this part of production is largely dependent on the financing of the Public Book Agency and in some ways belongs to the so-called public interest and the State provides the appropriate resources for this. However, there are some data that speak for 2013 in favour of positive developments on the Slovenian book market, in particular one of the biggest problems of the Slovenian book market being extremely low. The data for 2013 provided by NUK show that the average volume of the book and the brochure in the field of beauty, compared with the year earlier in 2013, increased to 989 copies and that the average load of original beauty was increased from 699 in 2012 to 953 in 2013. These are very interesting movements even in the light of the fact that we know that the average price of the book, we are talking about beauty and children's literature, remained at about the same level – €19 for beauty, €11 for painting. This picture speaks mainly of something. Slovenian publishers, registered to about a thousand 400 and something else with their production, are heavily dependent on the sales network of the Youth Book. That's a good one. It is on the new owner of the Youth Book that he is very responsible for making the Slovenian book accessible so that it does not affect the activities of the Youth Book, where it is in line with public interest, and I am sure that he will act as responsible owner.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you for that part of the answer. I agree with Vladimir Kavčič. If we are saying that the book is in the public interest, then it can also be considered that the Ministry, as part of the Slovenian government, is responsible for achieving public interest in the book. The Agency for the Book of Grants shall promote the production or publication of books. But it is true that what you said in your answer is the sales network of the Youth Book is scattered. The sales, bookstores of Youth Books show a quite different image from Felix's stores, I'd rather say a bookstore. And that's why I think it's a legitimate concern. Mr Srečko Mrvar, however, assures that he will realize everything that has been done by the Youth Book. But when you were wondering why some initiatives were not successful, you know that the project together for the book was not successful because the banks did not give enough time to raise the necessary funds. However, it is a general belief that the book is treated in the same way as other market goods. And the care of the book is justified. But here I would remind you of something else. That, with what I have already asked you, as well as in the questions already put before me, the issue of copyright protection and protection of intellectual property also opens up. The Slovenian Writers' Society has submitted a proposal on how to amend and amend the law. Therefore, I also ask you in this regard: What are your intentions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u122	Respected! True, a little over 50 booksellers of the Youth Book and a little over 20 booksellers taught what a new owner will be responsible for in the future. Here I must remind you that the whole sale process has not yet been completed, as the Ombudsman will also have to give his opinion. It is also very interesting from the point of view of some in-depth analysis of the functioning of the Slovenian book market will see what he will say about this. Nevertheless, I must ask the question more clearly: To what extent should the state interfere with the economy? In fact, what were the alternatives in this case? The country could act as a buyer of the Youth Book at any time. In practice, this means that from three banks or from two banks a majority share would be purchased by the Court of Justice. What would the Court do? The Court would set up a board here, and there is actually no guarantee here that the problems of the Youth Book would be solved. I cannot deny that we have been very closely monitoring what is happening to sales and that we have not decided on any more active action for a simple reason. The youth book, as a label, has remained stable throughout the period of sales, programmes have not been reduced, there have been no serious interventions into the structure of employees and, of course, there have been no developmental breakthroughs since it did not have the right owner, but has normally performed its tasks. What would be the second option that the Association of Slovenian Writers in some way proposed a little utopianly? Would this be a public service? They would be the only country in Europe, and in the world probably the other country, besides Cuba, which would have state publishing. Publishing is such a sector that does not tolerate state ownership because it is simply too dynamic because it is linked to copyright because, after all, it is the activity that can be quickly subjected to censorship and to any other influence of politics. I can't imagine how the country could have done anything different here. Once again, I appeal to the new owner to be held accountable. The Ministry of Culture and the Public Book Agency will conduct and encourage dialogue with a wide range of Slovenian publishers, authors and all others operating on the book market to reach such solutions as the new circumstances may also offer. Not least certain synergies, if we take a quick look at business [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in a logistical sense, in a bookstore sense, where there is actually a possibility that we will have more places of sale with more quality literature. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Dr. Urosh Grill. Ms Eva Irgl is next with a question for the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! A long time ago, the European People's Party, with the support of all its members, received a resolution expressing concern about the situation in Slovenia. It also points to the need for an impartial and independent judiciary and calls for the rapid adoption of effective lustration laws in all Member States that have not yet done so. You will probably agree with me that Slovenia has unfortunately failed to make the necessary social policy changes when the greatest opportunity was available for this. True, we came from a single-party system to a multi-party system, but unfortunately, at different levels of mentality, it remained exactly the same. As a result, today we also have very large consequences, severe consequences in all areas. In the face of the economic and economic crisis, we are also constantly faced with a crisis of values, which is also reflected in the uplifting and magnification of totalitarian symbols, in unfair justice, and all too often in disregard of basic civilisation standards, where the five to the dead also belong, and in condemnation of crimes. Dear Minister of the Interior, no country in the world would allow the humiliation of its own symbols, such as the coat of arms, flag and anthem, by parading and magnifying the symbols that belonged to the former totalitarian State, which we plebiscitefully renounced in 1991. But that is exactly what we do, and there is nothing to prevent that or that from happening. Also due to the recent reopening of the debate on domestic education, as well as respect for national symbols, at the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What is your attitude as Minister of State-Friendly Resor to the resurrection and glorification of totalitarian symbols, called the symbols of communism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Irgle. Here you go, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you. I have not received such a broad and general question in the National Assembly, it does not directly concern my powers, so it is very difficult to give you any concrete, very concrete answer, because the question was not concrete either. If I understand correctly, the question was, What is my attitude toward the glorification of totalitarian symbols? Negative.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u128	Since you have answered me so briefly and explicitly, I can probably expect that you will do everything in your power, that such inscriptions as have, say, re-emerged on Sabota – Our Tito, will no longer happen or that you will do everything in your power to do something about this problem. Dear Minister, you know that the Constitutional Court has banned the naming of the street through Titus on the grounds that such a designation would gravely violate human rights and would also affect the dignity and integrity of the victims of the communist regime, which, of course, has been most embodyed by Tito. Let me say that I come from the Vipava Valley, from Vipava and, of course, I face people who warn me that the problem is what happened again on Sabota. More than 80 prominent Novogorians signed a petition against this inscription Our Tito, against the awakening of this inscription on the Sabbath, for they say it is a violation of human rights and a violation of human dignity. I wonder if there is any other country that has a democracy where we would see a new inscription in 2014, say, Our Stalin, Our Hitler or Our Mussolini. Dear Minister, I ask you in relation to Slovenian symbols, coat of arms, anthems, and also the last flag: Does that seem acceptable to you, or does that seem normal to you? Is that the kind of thing you're worried about? I also ask you: Are you doing anything to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and to protect the integrity of the State of Slovenia against symbols and records that should only be a legacy or a reminder of the totalitarian system? [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I ask you as a minister, who is also responsible for this area because you run a national resource. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you. One is the question of my personal attitude and my personal views towards our past history, which, of course, I am interested in and interested in, but I think that politicians should avoid these issues as much as possible in public debates until we find a common language. If I reply a little more broadly, I have also written in the programme of our party to the Civil War that politics must not exploit and abuse the issues of half-lived history for the avoidance of hatred and for the avoidance of disputes between people and must not exploit these issues for the sake of daily political needs. Therefore, I think that the task of policy is to discuss these issues quietly and outside the soybeans of media luminaires, to agree, to achieve some reconciliation, a single position, and then to take a stand before the people, and to say what a united position that is. Otherwise, I think these things will only lead us to some negative spiral. I think we have a lot of other, more important things to do with our future to save them. However, as far as my powers as Minister of the Interior are concerned, these are, of course, those situations where we are talking about police work, when there is a violation of public order and peace when crimes occur and so on. In the case you've been explaining, I don't see the element or the other. I can have my own opinion on these inscriptions, my own position, but I must by no means put this view into my work, let alone influence the police in dealing with such cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that an extensive debate be held on the Minister's response, as I think this is an extremely important topic. You said, Mr. Secretary, that we must deal with the future. It is true, I agree, but it is also necessary to clear up the past in some way, as well as to adopt a relationship to this half-lived history if we are to breathe more stable present and a better future with full lungs. We are in an extremely difficult financial and economic situation. The Member States of the European Union have already largely come out of this crisis, and we are still deep within it, also because of these issues that we have not cleared up and that you say are irrelevant to today. See, unemployment is on the rise, poverty is on the rise, and the young people who accompany us here today are going abroad, because they are looking for better opportunities. And so on. Of course, as long as we tolerate such practices in this country as the inscription that magnifies the dictator Tito to Sabota, or we will tolerate the parade, say, of the Yugoslav flags in the centre of Ljubljana instead of the Slovenian flags, we will be prisoners of the past. We will be prisoners of the past, and we will be far from the emergency reconciliation that the American Ambassador Mussomeli recently spoke of. As a result, we will also be far from a stable present and a bright future. This breakthrough will also have to happen with us, dear Minister. I'm not talking about any rematch here, I'm talking about just being truthful. This breakthrough — and we both know it — will have to happen. Only honest dealing with the past can lead us to reconciliation and coexistence. I propose that, despite the non-conformity in the first paragraphs, however, we hold a debate under Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I think that perhaps today, when we are in such a difficult economic and financial situation, is an important time to have such a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u134	Madam Vice-President, I expected you to remind the Member of this because she does not use the Rules of Procedure, and you have this opportunity to remind her that the procedural proposal for a discussion on the Minister's reply is not an opportunity to argue with the Minister and the Minister's direct address, because you are very sensitive to debates and do not allow them, but this is a way for the Member to break the Rules of Procedure, even so far as you did not warn her that she is even talking to others. If we do so, then let us act, but you, as chairman and as chairman of the meeting of the National Assembly, are responsible for how the Rules of Procedure are applied. On this initiative, the MEP has exceeded the tolerance, and he also knows that it will be up to the vote when we vote on it, not what the first type thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I assume that the Member of Parliament has mentioned you because you have commented in the meantime. However, you have repeatedly taught me about the use of the Rules of Procedure, but I suggest that you apply at least the same criteria and criteria in the debates of all. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. The next is Mr Jožef Jerovšek, who has a question for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities as Dr Anjo Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! In the Saturday annex, Dela published an interview with an analytical psychologist and a well-known Jung psychoanalyst, Matjaz Regovac. Under his quote "The Slovenians We Have All Signs of a Trauma Nation", the author lists traumas from a half-lived history and says that it is irreparable damage because the country or nation has not processed and processed the trauma. To illustrate professionally, I quote: “We should also process trauma, often publicly, ritually, as is done in psychotherapy” because this is essential for comprehensive development, prosperity and progress. Last week, and in the past period, we were reminded of more events in good faith. Also a symbolic record and a call for mutual compassion and reconciliation, or a step that the nation will have to take, by a foreign diplomat. A symbolic gesture, which unfortunately also triggered responses that are below the civilisation threshold, as noted by a prominent Slovenian intellectual. Also before the Memorial and Tina Hribar and Mr Peter Kovačič Peršin, together with the Management Committee of the Association of Slovenian Writers, sent a petition to us, in the National Assembly, in the Government and Slovenian media, with a subtitle We demand a respectful burial of the dead, all victims of interwar and postwar seas. I quote: "All the victims were not only erased from the book of life, but also from the book of the dead. It's a double crime against humanity. "The end of the quote. So, I ask, Madam Minister: Does the government have a reconciliation project in its programme? Does he still have it? Does the program of venerable burial of all victims have a way of finally eliminating this civilizational flaw?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u137	Here you go, Dr. Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam President-in-Office of your National Assembly! You probably don't expect me to comment on what someone is writing about traumas, and I won't give an opinion about whether the Slovenian nation is traumatized, but probably every one of us and those who are watching us will think about how much we traumatise it here, by repeatedly opening the wounds again and again and again, and when, on the other hand, we know that certain wounds will probably never go away because they are such natures that losing their loved ones, their dearest ones is likely to comment on what we think about these traumas and those pains will not end. You asked me about a decent funeral. I say that the work programme of the Government for 2013 and 2014 is similar to that of the Government of Janez Janša in 2012; we have very similar items written there. Therefore, the Government adopted this programme on the basis of Article 21 of the War Cemetery Act and for 2014 and 2015 the Ministry adopted a programme in December 2013. In the area of protection of military graves, which is in line with the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, the following projects are envisaged in the area of protection of hidden military graves: regular maintenance of military graves in the area of the whole of Slovenia – this is the covered cemetery in the area of Kočevská Roga, Konfin, Teharje Memorial Park, Dobrava Memorial Park in Maribor and the cemetery in Maribor – then the implementation of the project of the amount of posthumous remains from the karst caves and the burial of the cemetery in Maribor, the implementation of the memorial at the day of the death, the preparation of the project documentation for the construction of the monument to all victims in the Congress Square in Ljubljana and the intervention and the rehabilitation of the cemetery of the graves of the Council of Barbara in the Hudi Cave. I can assure you that, given the limited financial resources, we have tried as much as was given last year for this purpose, even in the future. We also had a meeting with different actors, and much more money was needed. We have spent almost a million euros in the country since 2011 to regulate Barbara's trench. We may also have a monument to build there, but I believe, regardless of the numbers we are talking about; the pain of people and what I think here, what you think, what others think, is, in particular, how much we contribute to the reconciliation by ourselves with our actions or always by incinerating the past and the core of the dispute in our country. I belong to a younger generation myself, and I wish that we didn't talk about it so much, but mostly they count the actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I am deeply disappointed and surprised at some of your thesis, which went so directly towards what was written by academic Tina Hribar, Memorial of Hribar and other Slovenian writers when you say that in the National Assembly we traumatise the people of Slovenia, that we are always opening up these themes. It was also an attack on these academics and Slovenian writers who opened this topic to me. For my duty, I come from Styria. God forbid any Dolenjec or someone from the Ljubljana province opens this because it is an immediate accusation of patriotism, and I come from partisan circles, from Styria, and I feel a sacred duty to open it. It's not the burning of impatience, as you said, Madam Minister, I'm surprised you're talking about it as a minister. In fact, you have confirmed what Mr Mussomel wrote that the Slovenian paradox is that as soon as anyone talks about the device or, quote, "stimulates that the time has come for mutual respectful and compassionate behavior, or invites Slovenians to honor all those who have fallen, then take a step further, then such a person is a fascist sympathizer". From the context of yours, you've actually confirmed this Mussomelian Slovenian paradox. Now answer me: Do you support the fact that the coalition has repeatedly rejected the civilisational decision that the dead should be buried with dignity?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. You want to answer, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you. I would really not want disrespect about anyone and my implementation was that trauma to the people who lost their relatives after World War II, during World War II, never with any, probably, monument, with a legal act, if we don't reach out here too and honestly mean it. That's all I said, that's all. What is the relationship of the coalition, ask the coalition, I am here in front of you as the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which I have told you is a similar sum of resources to the work programme for 2014 and 2015 as was intended for this in 2012, when you were also responsible for this area. I am aware that more money should be needed. My question is whether maybe even substantially more money would mean something more and any step forward, or whether we would reopen the same themes and set the same things on fire. This is a question for each of us. My thesis is that what I say here, what you say, will not help people who have lost relatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Minister for Answers. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u144	Since, in her reply, the Minister has in fact overstepped civilisation standards and has even said that what the coalition has to do with the five questions of burying the dead, let me ask others, let us ask others. Madam Minister, you are the secretary of the department for this area. At first, I thought it belonged to the Minister of Culture, and I addressed him, and they taught me that you were the secretary of the department. To refuse to answer these questions is to me, and I hope for the pietically minded Slovenians, a shock. You mark this as burning the same things over and over again, while writers and academics say, "In front of the world, and in front of the Slovenian people, above all, we are ashamed of the sacrosanct that we agree to when we are silent." For decades, we have been condemned to the conspiracy of silence, now we act and willingly join in with our silence. Madam Minister, I was hoping that because this was addressed to the Government that you read this profoundly sensitive letter on the basis of civil standards and some feeling. This is obviously not the government's program. Today, I have quoted some top intellectuals, humanists who are deeply aware of this and also cite foreign cases that this trauma needs to be internalized, processed. Your government obviously doesn't want that. I believe that I, too, will be attacked today with a pogrom, as in these matters forever, upon order of certain writings. However, it is also my sacred duty, because I have no personal reason, family, but on behalf of that authentic partisan and others, I expect you to see in the Government that this is our common civil duty, not the incineration of trauma. I therefore propose that we hold a general debate on this subject under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The debate on the Minister's reply on whether or not we are going to do it will be decided in the context of the vote. Now, to you, magi. Katarina Hotchevar, who has a question for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Finance through the Institute of Parliament today to the non-lifeless, if not even the strange rules in the calculation of income or income relief. That's what our citizens warned me about. And in a more detailed review of legislation or rules in this area, I have come to realize that this is true. To put it simply, we have a system where we pay more than 330 euros in taxes or income for the euro. The relief scale, so unlike the income scale itself, is not federal. An additional problem arises or occurs to a large number of citizens who are at the Employment and Unemployment Institute. In a large number of cases, the refund amounts to €892 gross per month, which amounts to €150 less on an annual basis than the ceiling for the highest income base. If such an unemployed person, in addition to compensation, has received another 100 euros in additional income, more than 100 euros in additional income will be paid. It says what he deserves more, the country picks up what he deserves. I ask such a distinguished minister: Are the Ministry of Finance aware of the problems described? Do they intend to amend or adopt measures to bring about a change in the system in such a way that such tax steps would no longer exist? The unemployed are disstimulated by the existing regime in order to find an informal job, as some 100 euros are completely lost through or even reduced by the income available to them. In this way we literally force people to avoid work and rather sit at home and receive compensation, which, of course, is at odds with every logic. It may also give us an added thought to the fact that our relief system is in need of renewal. Also what both economists and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia point to when proposing a so-called facilitating scale "each account counts". Please have the Minister answer me in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. As you wish and as per the Rules of Procedure, you will receive a written answer to your question. The next question will be raised by Mrs Sonja Ramšak, President of the Government in the role of Minister of Health of Mags. Alenki Bratušek, who has been excused since 13 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Although I regret that the President of the Government, who also serves as Minister of Health, is not with us in the Chamber. I think that perhaps some of the obligations could also be adjusted to answer the questions raised by the Members. In fact, it was my intention today to ask her a question of the programme for carrying out child heart surgery. I only hope that it may not be more important to seek support for the President of Positive Slovenia, or to carry out a Nordic walk in a series of cameras, or to seek excuses for not being able to meet with civil society, which has already addressed her request twice, but has not taken the time to meet with them. In the last two years, the Slovenian public has been harassing the stories of parents of children with congenital heart failures, which point to shortcomings and also mistakes in the implementation of the children's heart surgery programme. In 2012 the former Executive Director of the University Clinical Centre ensured in her written response to concerned parents that the programme of operations of congenital heart failures in children was successfully implemented and that it would continue to be a cost-effective and professional decision, as operational and treatment of children abroad would also be up to 3 times more expensive than those performed in UKC Ljubljana. She also pointed out that it is not negligible that children with their parents should travel abroad if the programme is terminated, which is not permitted by the medical condition of young patients in many cases. The issue of child heart surgery was also brought to the attention of the Committee on Health of the National Assembly, and on this occasion even the President of the Medical Chamber Dr. Možina said that doctors actually caused problems and doubts in the treatment of children with congenital heart failures. For this reason, I ask the Minister, President of the Government, who also serves as Minister of Health: When and in what way will it ensure that young patients with congenital heart failures receive proper, effective and, above all, professional treatment? Or else : Will the Government and she, as Minister of Management and Supervisory Board of UKC Ljubljana, require proper supervision, even in the light of the latest events, when young Pike's life was extinguished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Your reply will be received in writing, as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u150	I would like to ask that the Minister responds orally to the next meeting of the National Assembly, because I think it is right that a broader debate be held later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have recorded your wish and it will also be made at the next meeting. Ms Alenka Jeraj is the next to raise a question, namely, to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u152	I hope I'm right because I have two, and I don't know which one's first. With regard to child support? Oh, good. I ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: How does the scholarship affect the dose of the child supplement and if the applicants are informed in concrete terms? In fact, people are asking me a question when they are applying for a student scholarship at the Centre for Social Work. They may no longer be entitled to a child supplement. I would like to know whether the employees at the social work centre will, in such a case, alert those who invest or not. They say that, for example, if they apply for a scholarship and then this scholarship is granted to them, they may lose a child allowance in this case, but they are not warned about this by representatives at the Social Work Centre. However, since this grant amount may be significantly lower than the child supplement, in this case people are in a poorer position. That's why I want to know: How's that going? Are they also addressing you, and what are the consequences, or how much, of this?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you for that question. Perhaps this is the first thing I would say that the State grant does not affect the level of the child allowance; that the ZUPJS sets the order and the type of order of determination of rights is that the first child allowance, then the cash social assistance, then the security allowance and then the state scholarship. So, the state scholarship is the last of the rights, so it can't affect the children's allowance. If it is, it is the opposite direction; therefore, the child allowance, which is first built, affects the state grant. Indeed, another important thing, namely that other scholarships are not only national, is not taken into account because they are not taxable, except for a staff scholarship, which is taxable under the Income Act. So the human resources scholarship is the only one that's taken into account. When we were aware of this too – there is this information on our website, I must say, quite well written, but perhaps it could be written even more clearly. Certainly, the fact that the human resources scholarship is taken into account – we also have the initiative of different actors to consider this to be excluded. One of the following amendments to the ZUPJS, i.e. the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, would aim to encourage the human resources scholarships that we want to encourage – but the Ministry of Human Resources Grants does not have much in place because they are granted by companies, of course, but we would like this to not have a negative impact in this direction, so that we will approach these changes. However, it is not as you said at the outset that the staff scholarship would have an impact; it is because it is at the end and does not affect the children’s allowance, which is the first of the rights that the family decides.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the question? Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u156	However, I do have a note or a letter from a lady who then dropped her child's allowance, but not for as much as she is a scholarship, but for more. So they come back to the center and ask them to withdraw this application for the scholarship, which is not possible or could not be possible only in the next school year, because, of course, people will look at what is worth more or what address they have more income or subsidy from. I want to know: Is it not, then, that you can provide new information on social rights, or that you withdraw this role, or that you no longer want to receive a scholarship, and that thing goes back to what it was? In fact, the lady who wrote this to me says so. In order to lose the child’s allowance – it was higher than the grant amount granted or their child’s allowance decreased by more than the grant amount granted. When they come back to the center and want to cancel this, of course it is no longer possible and so it remains until the beginning of the next school year. Some social workers warn and suggest to people that they calculate for themselves what this means for them; whether they are paid more for their scholarship or not at all, but in fact they should not do such a calculation, but perhaps they are very difficult for themselves in all the complications, while they have a practical programme at the centres for this. So I think it would be nice for users to do this to them and then see if it pays them to do it or to change it. They point out that they do not know that no one even warns them, but we know that we sometimes find it difficult to follow everything we accept, let alone people.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u158	On a specific case, it is very difficult that the child allowance is not affected by the State grant because it is awarded later. [[…]] However, if the lady thought it was a human resources scholarship, I said that under the Income Act it was a taxable income and is therefore considered a family income, even when deciding on a child's allowance. So we have several different types of scholarships, so it's really hard to comment on a concrete case. However, in this particular case, something has to be said that it is necessary to continue to simplify this legislation and that it is one of the basic objectives – and I think, I hope that any government or anyone will continue to do so – that citizens will be given an informational calculation in the field of social rights to which they are entitled next year. In terms of, as we are used to getting an IT calculation for income, that once a year on a cross-border date, all citizens, because we have all these databases in the system, would get this calculation and then only if we did not agree with these calculations, as we do with Durs, would they appeal. In short, it would be automaticism and people would know that once a year they get a bill because it is an annual right and it is a decision-making method; therefore, children's allowances, subsidies for rents, this is all annual rights. However, for those who opt for a shorter period, which is more dependent on the material situation, such as cash social assistance, a security allowance, and there will still be a need to invest, because the data are considered three months ago – and income. However, it certainly goes as you said, it cannot affect state scholarships, since most people who receive a state grant also have child allowances. In this case, it should not be, unless there has been a mistake or anything, but in the order set by the ZUJF, this is not the case. However, we are moving towards a continuation of the changes in this area, and for the second year, the aim is also to provide citizens with this informational calculation of the social rights they belong to.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Do you have a request for a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u160	I still haven't got the answer to the question. What you're saying is, even though someone gets a state scholarship, the kid's allowance doesn't change. But that's not true. I have different information – to change them and that's why they're turning to us and probably to you. Therefore, the problem at the centres is whether they calculate it and figure out what will happen to them with the child supplement. I therefore propose that, in accordance with Article 246, we hold a debate on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided in the National Assembly tomorrow, Wednesday, 23 April. The next one will ask the question of the Magi. Mr Andrej Šircelj, President of the Government in the role of Minister of Health Mag. Alenki Bratusek, who is officially absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I regret that the President of the Government and the Acting Minister of Health are officially absent, particularly because I think that the Ministry of Health should be fully operational at this time. However, it has not really worked for six months, in short, since Mr Gantar resigned and said that he is also resigning because nothing can be done in health care. Not because they're too big a lobby to do anything in this department. Then he came after him as Acting Officer, Mr Erjavec, where nothing had happened either. Then Mrs. Trop Skaza, who also resigned in one month. She found that there was probably nothing to be done and that it was probably better if she was not the Minister of Health. Now she's the doer of her duties, Alenka Bratušek. Given that this government has announced health reforms, I am interested in where health reforms are. Mr Gantar has already prepared a reform that was then rejected, I think that there was above all opposition in the coalition itself, especially the Civil Charter against that reform. The reasons are probably different, but all of this is at the expense of the patients and at the expense of hospitals. In short, as health reform stalls, the question arises when this coalition will make such a reform that will be financially sustainable. According to some data, an additional 150 to 200 million are needed in health care. That's what experts say. Where will we get 150 to 200 million and how will this affect the quality of services for patients and also the health care of healthcare professionals? We believe that there is a need for a health reform, both in the area of funding and in the field of organisation, and in the area of governance and governance. I also wonder if there will be medical discharges — pardons have been announced several times. If yes: Where, how, and what will be the new organization? Will there be fewer health homes? In short, I want to know: When's the health reform? What's she gonna be like? How is she going to introduce her? What's the funding going to be? What will be the organisation of future health care, how will management and management be managed, and how will lobbyists who irritate health care and pharmacy in the country from day to day be disposed of?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. You will receive a written answer to your question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next question will be raised by Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Minister of Justice Dr. Senko Plicaniu.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! As far as the justice system is concerned, we know that the justice system has not actually experienced some major corrections since 1991, and has not undergone significant changes. According to my assessment, he did not adapt to the social situation, but he remained somewhere, if I may say a little harshly, in socialism. However, it is legislation that could substantially change the justice system. We know that in that coalition treaty that we had, where you were, we had quite a few laws in the field of justice that should make this system more effective. Also, the coalition contract, which has expired with your current coalition partners as the one now in force, foresees some changes to the legislation that we would like and that is urgently needed by this country. However, one way or another, if we take a good look at the calendar, if we take a good look at the clock, one would say that we are about a year ahead of the regular elections. We know that a month or two pass quickly, but these changes are not yet there — at least the ones I expected. For example, I miss the CAP, which would significantly reach into the hands that would significantly intervene in, say, the abolition of the judicial investigation and so on and so forth. The case of so-called precedent judgments, or how it is already said professionally, because today we have a situation in which, in the same case, the court at one end of the country decides completely different from the court at the other end of the country. To have something similar to the decisions, say, the Constitutional Court. We also have an incredibly high number of judges, as you well know, and all those criticisms expressed to the judiciary at the time of the negotiations and accession to European integration have been overlooked by the judges, so to speak, and nothing much has been done on this topic. Even with what's happening to you now, when the courts simply say that it's over that they don't have the money to close the first of July or whatever, no. While I welcome here your efforts, which you are leading, and when you tell them clearly and loudly that they should also look for internal reserves. Of course, I hope they will, because the judicial branch of power is the one that has been paid once more than the average of the European Union. In short, I ask about the reforms: When will these reforms take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Dr. Shadow Fever, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, dear former colleague Dr. Gorenak, as Minister, is still existing as a politician! When it comes to diagnosing the situation in Slovenian justice, there is, in fact, no difference in the government of Janez Janša, in which I participated as minister responsible for justice and public administration, and not today in the government of Mrs Bratušek. In this government, one and the same government, where the second coalition treaty is already under way, i.e. in all these three coalition treaties, in the coalition treaty that reviewed the work of the Janša government, and then in the first coalition contract of the government of Bratušek and now the second coalition treaty of the government of Alenka Bratušek, the problems we are addressing, or the diagnosis of the problems we are trying to solve, and the solutions we are addressing in relation to these problems are the same. Therefore, the content of these coalition treaties could not, in fact, be substantially different and quite similar. It only differs in that or in those parts where we've already done some things. What we did was simply not included in this current, valid coalition contract. For the problems that we have in the Slovenian judiciary, we have drawn up in this existing coalition treaty – which you are wondering when the measures envisaged will be implemented – three sets of measures to make the situation in Slovenian justice even better than it has been before. I'll tell you a little bit more about this next time. These three sets are: first, a change in legislation, secondly, a set of organisational changes in individual parts of the judiciary – not just in the judiciary, even in others, for example in the State Prosecutor's Office – and thirdly, investments in justice. This is not about legislative projects, not about organisational projects, but about purely concrete projects, such as construction projects such as the new prison in Ljubljana. First, let us see what has been achieved in all this time. I must say, my assessment of what has been achieved since I was the Minister in charge of justice has been positive. This is indeed the result of the whole period in which I am acting as Minister of Justice, that is, my work in the Janšev government – there simply could not be results in this government because it had ceased to exist or I resigned as Minister of Justice myself. As it is said, the results of my entire engagement in Mr Janša's previous government and now in Mrs Bratušek's government are positive. This is not only my opinion, but also the Council of Europe and the European Union. Public confidence in justice and the general functioning of the rule of law have changed. Of course, people in our country are very difficult and rarely anything and anyone, except athletes, is to be commended at all, but everyone has noticed the progress. Indeed, this is not yet the state we want – even a little more – but progress is. As it is said, the data of the European Commission, specifically the justice of the scoreboard, which is such an indicator of a variety of elements of the functioning of justice, is positive. In short, the courts have significantly reduced the trial time and have also reduced the number of judicial delays, despite the financial constraints; therefore, despite the fact that the judiciary, like all others, in a limited public financial situation, has achieved these results over the last two years, i.e. since I am the Minister of Justice myself. This at the same time shows that in all the years of plenty, that is, in all the past 20s and more years, this result has not been achieved, and now in two years of relatively difficult work, and with less money these results are. This is one of the indicators of positive work that has been done since I was Minister of Justice myself. Then let's go. When you ask about legislative projects and legislative changes, much has been achieved. In particular, let me draw attention to changes in bankruptcy legislation that have significantly reduced the number of bankruptcy frauds, abolished land debt and the whole species [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in the second part of the response. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you very much. So I'm going to say, some of the moves are certainly, including the bankruptcy manager of Gorše, who is one of the last things and the saying of the judgment and the taking of things abroad, these are some of the moves. But still, I'm asking for the CAP, Minister, and I would really like to ask you if you're trying to answer me: How long will this CAP be? Will the investigation be terminated, or will the deadlines be reduced, or how will it be? Because in the National Assembly I mostly see and hear that you have some plans, you have problems within the coalition with small shareholders living elsewhere – they like the socialist judiciary better than something more normal. In short, I am interested in the CAP from this point of view. I'm also wondering if you're trying to say: How is it now after one year with this commitment to citizens? Has the court fulfilled it or not? And what's been very up-to-date lately. The courts claim that the bankruptcy law passed in the National Assembly brought precisely that they now have losses or that they have spent all their money and that they will no longer have to work on July 1. You're saying the other way around. That was in the media. Do you really want to hear in particular about the CAP, the deadlines and the judicial investigation — when can we promise ourselves a matter here in the National Assembly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u170	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me continue with the answer. A few more words on what has already been achieved, and then immediately on what is happening with the CAP. I think that we can all agree, including the opposition, that some positive movement, a significant positive movement, particularly if compared to the situation in all past years after independence, has occurred in these recent years. I would like to see this move even more, but, nevertheless, the move is, the direction is right, only to continue in this direction. When it comes to the joint commitment signed by the Government and the judiciary, which committed themselves to achieving purely concrete objectives, these specific objectives concerned and related to the reduction of judicial proceedings, the duration of judicial proceedings and the reduction of judicial backlogs, I replied earlier that a significant shift had been achieved here. We will evaluate this precisely when the commitment is over, and that will be in June. But even now I can say as some intermediate assessment that the judiciary, when it comes to this goal – and this is actually the only goal – these matters work in the right direction and act in line with the commitment. However, the commitment is not pure when it comes to reducing the number of judges on the one hand and hiring another, so-called auxiliary staff. In order not to burden you with data and I have already talked about it quite a bit in public, the Court has not reduced the number of judges by as much as it should have in relation to the undertaking; much less. At the same time, the number of employees in the support staff category increased considerably more than they could under the undertaking. Thus, I must be critical in this work, but at the same time I must commend the judiciary once again when it comes to reducing judicial proceedings, that is for efficiency. A more effective judiciary is definitely and this must be recognised. But the truth is, we're not where we want to be yet. If I can evaluate this with a score of one to five, I would say that my assessment given to the Slovenian judiciary is a threesome. But of course we want to have an A. When it comes to legislative projects, which are the only real tool we have as a Government, and I as a minister, when it comes to influencing the improvement of the situation in the judiciary and other parts of the judiciary, let me say that most of the laws envisaged by the existing coalition treaty are just before the government adopts them, but it is true that we have been coordinating with the CAP for quite some time with regard to certain solutions. The fact is, I am acting alone so that I want to have legislative projects as coordinated as possible and there is nothing else here. I think there's gonna be a law on criminal proceedings in a week, two in the government. The same applies to other laws such as the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service, these are two, the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, the Law on Free Legal Aid, the Law on Succession and the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. They're all just before the government's reception.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Not so much for the answer, I agree that the movements, as you say, are the Minister, but according to my assessment, mainly due to the public's attitude towards the judiciary, including the attitude of this Parliament to the judiciary, where in 2008 we were not allowed to say everything about the judiciary, but in 2009 the left coalition was already on its last legs, as it would have been said. Today we are speaking much more openly about justice, and we are also frankly criticising them, and I think it is right that we should also give another impetus to this situation through the debate in the National Assembly. Look, you also said at the end of the day that their commitment was less than that of judges. You know what we got last week at the National Assembly? A motion by a court in Celje to appoint a lawyer as a judge, while a court in Celje wanted to raise a judge as a higher judge, and the Council of Justice went completely overturned. He's gone completely through! I think that the debate, if voted in the National Assembly on the subject of the functioning of justice, could only give another impetus to the changes in justice. It's easy for you, too, I think, to benefit you. As far as the CAP is concerned, if the CAP goes in the direction that the judicial investigation will be discontinued, the hands will be shorter; in short, the judges will be a little tight with their hands if they say so and so on – I would not, if I could say so, listen much to the small coalition partners, because our voices will also be sure if the CAP goes in the same direction as we said. In fact, the investigation has to be discontinued, and no one in Europe knows it. Some binding deadlines for judges should be considered, at a time when certain tasks should be carried out. All of these are changes that are also envisaged in our programme and I see no reason why we cannot face these views in the debate in the National Assembly and give some new impetus to the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided in the National Assembly tomorrow. The next question will be raised by Mr Jože Tanko, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! The penal provisions of the Forest Act state that a fine of between EUR 5 and EUR 50 000 shall be imposed on a legal person, an individual who carries out the activity independently or on the basis of a means of transport or transport of forest-forest ranges without a carrier, or if the data on the carrier are not complete. This penalty represents a huge amount in relation to the value of goods loaded or transported. The fine can be a few ten times higher than the value of transport, it can usually be over a hundred times, and the fine is independent of whether this person does not have a vehicle with him by accident and has been issued to him — that is to say he has forgotten — whether he is without a carrier or not. The Wine Act, the second case, lays down penalties of EUR 2 000 to EUR 28 000 for the wine producer if he uses a geographical indication, a traditional term or an additional traditional term, that is to say a trade mark or a origin or a source, if he does not mark the vessel or notify the wine inspector of the property of the must, and for small producers the penalties of EUR 650 to 6000 are 500, which in natural currency is said to be wine, meaning that it is about as much a litre of wine as a high penalty. I think there are very few small wine producers who produce 6,000 gallons [6,000 L] of wine per year, which means that the sentence is higher than the annual crop. Then we have a third case, the Nature Conservation Act, which is under way. The easier offence is to drive or if the legal person drives, stops or parks a motor vehicle in a natural environment and the vehicle does not stand or is not parked in a 5-metre lane outside the vehicle, or if he uses a motor vehicle that is not entered into the register and is not marked, the fine for this is between EUR 5 and EUR 10 000, with a fine of thousands to EUR 5 000 to EUR 5 000 for espaing. In addition, an official may, under Article 161.b of the Nature Conservation Act, take a side action, which is the seizure of items used for the offence, i.e. vehicles. Minister, I've listed some of the penalty pearls from your one-year term, and now I'm wondering: On what professional grounds do you, as a minister, decide to propose both radical penalties and fines that do not have any legal basis for the eventual gains made, or any damage to the state, or damage to nature? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u176	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Member, thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to say that I checked with the Ministry and the Ministry does not allow the production of professional starting points for any law, at least to the extent that I have been able to verify, because we are saving. Secondly, as far as fines are concerned, I must say that they are the basis for the professional starting point of the Offences Act. Then what is new is new in the area of forestry, wine and agriculture, so that the fines can be set in a range. This means, in practice, that an inspector may, in the case of a recurring act, determine a higher fine than that where the act has been committed for the first time. The very height of the fines is created in such a way that the Ministry’s professional services check the situation in other similar laws, check what is happening on the ground, and check — if our data is available to us, most of them — what are the fines in other countries that we like to compare with. In the case of fines, the new objectives are three, in addition to proportionality, efficiency and deterrence, because the inspectors are only as many as they are, so the fine must be dissuasive and effective and not only proportionate. Otherwise, I'd say it like that. In my mandate, we changed the Agriculture Act. Here, in some areas, fines, not all, have risen to about three times — as we said — these moving fines. Where they are increasing, however, they are the worst violations in the field of food safety, such as food fraud and repetition. With wine I would like to tell you, honourable Member, that this law was created on the initiative of all three associations, both small winemakers and medium and large wine cellars. They have come to us with a request to amend the law in such a way that there will be a slightly less grey market that endangers these wine cellars and even small winemakers in their operations. In forestry, as you know, we also reduced our fines during the adoption of the law and also in the second round. There was also a trace of efficiency and dissuasiveness. However, I said that we had also looked at some other laws. During my term of office, we dealt twice with the Water Act, where we did not change the fines, but on the first amendment we added one new offence and changed the formulation for two offences. As far as the Nature Conservation Act is concerned, which will now follow the regular procedure, I expect that we will also discuss the amount of fines in it and coordinate them as much as possible within the parliamentary procedure. I would like to say, however, that the Offences Act and some comparable practices have been taken into account in the Triglav National Park Act, which was adopted under this Basic Nature Conservation Act. Here, as the Ministry, we are ready for further discussion, and in the Environmental Protection Act, we have also changed the descriptions of the offences, not the acts themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer or question? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you very much. See, if an independent entrepreneur transports one tractor of goods without a carrier, it can be fined up to €50,000. If an independent entrepreneur under the Tax Procedure Act is Article 397 and does not submit an annual business report, the penalty is only EUR 8 000 to 10 000 – from EUR 800 to EUR 10 000. I'm talking about proportionality! Then we have, for example, the next article of the Tax Procedure Act, 398, but it speaks of particularly serious tax offences and there may be fines for particularly serious tax offences of between 200 and 50,000 euros. This is the upper limit by allowing 20% of what can be punished. And we're talking about particularly serious tax violations. And especially serious tax offences have a cap; 50,000 euros is the biggest penalty. In agriculture, when it comes to, I will say, small-scale production, for production with little added value, the penalties are enormous to these matters. If someone steals, say, for 3 million euros, he will pay a maximum of 50,000 euros because the cap is 20 per cent or 20 per cent of the maximum penalty and the cap is 50,000 euros. But if someone moves five cubic pounds of wood, the penalty is also 50,000 euros. We're talking about proportionality here. The same is true of nature interventions, as I mentioned earlier, in the Wine Act and so on. I'm asking: Since when have agricultural offences been treated as the worst crimes under the Tax Procedure Act? This is a proportionality and you are a member of the Government, the Government is adopting one criminal provision under your laws and under the Tax Procedure Act for other taxpayers and there is, I will say, no proportion in this. After all, these restrictions or arrangements for the agricultural sector are completely outside the standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you, Madam President! I'd like to re-emphasize. We don't usually talk about the Agriculture Act. There I said, there have been three changes there, but in areas where the worst violations are because of food safety. If we're talking about the Wine Act, here is essentially a catalogue of sanctions made on the proportionality of offences. However, I would like to point out, honourable Member, that this catalogue was not in fact made on the initiative of the Ministry alone. We were approached by representatives of small, medium and larger winemakers because they said that this area needed to be regulated – and I agreed to do so. And in forestry itself, we have two phenomena. The first phenomenon is essentially a very large range of fines. We start somewhere at 150 euros and so on, with half of it. But it is true that it is the most severe punishment, and this is essentially a punishment that an inspector can pass on to repeaters, but this is probably similar to that in another country. They also have these kinds of penalties abroad. Germany is an example of this. In fact, in the case of repeaters, when it comes to large and organised black transport, which is essentially easy to steal. While everyone else, all the other provisions are in fact very large. But there's something else I'd like to point out. We are always talking about whether the amount of the penalty is appropriate or not, but we are also aware that we have few supervisors and that in these reductions in the public sector there will be even fewer supervisors, not more, so that criminal sanctions are so designed to be dissuasive and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Would you like a procedural proposal or a proposal for a discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response. It is clear to all of us that a small wine producer – and this one has less than a hectare of vineyards and is a large majority in Slovenia – does not happen to report a crop, gets a sentence, I will say, almost as high as that tax collector who makes 3 or 5 million tax evasion, and he can pay up to 50,000 euros in fines. Surely, Minister, you will not convince me that if someone parks outside a five-metre area with a vehicle, for example, in a protected area, he has committed so many penalties that 10,000 euros in fines are imposed on him and as a foreign measure he can also take away vehicles. It's unusual, it's abnormal. A disproportionate punishment is that. We have already discussed you, when we have adopted laws, both the Wine Act and the Forest Act, now you have in the Nature Conservation Act process, when you are actually following the same trend, as if the most problematic persons are owners of agricultural land, small vineyards – those who will eventually do something wrong in the park or in the protected area. For others who are a real problem and for whom the State rents high credits to cover a bank hole and also cover what is, say, an irrevocable debt in economic operations, penalties are significantly lower. In the case of 3 million tax evasion, the penalty is as much EUR 50 000 as that of the one who transported three cubic pieces of wood without the carrier. These are not proportionate penalties! I think that these problems that we both have in law, and these laws have been passed in the last year, but the Nature Conservation Act is still in the process, but something needs to be settled, a debate to be held and some proportionate measures to be taken, more serious offenses. They can't be, I don't know, disproportionately tall, abnormally tall on one side, and extremely tolerant on the other. We have cases of tax evasion when even penalties are not imposed, otherwise there would be, I don't know, hundreds of millions of Euros of tax debt. I propose that we hold a debate on this subject and seriously address the specific area of agricultural punishment. This isn't just about food safety. It is purely ordinary things that have nothing to do with not healthy diet, not with anything else, but primarily with proportionality and logical thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The following question will be raised by Dr László Göncz to Minister for Economic Development and Technology Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister Dragonja, as you know, Nafta - Petrochem, who operates within the Nafta Lendava Group, is in great liquidity difficulties, which unfortunately could cause the permanent collapse of a state-owned company and prejudge further exacerbation of the already pressing problem of unemployment in the region, i.e. in Pomurje. The management of the company, as well as the strike committee of workers in the framework of the organisation, have been informed by the general public on the current problems already implemented and the statement announced on 6 May, so I will not go into more detailed analysis of the situation now. The activities carried out in Petrochem and more broadly within the Nafta Lendava Group are of substantive importance and are financially viable in an optimal manner, and it is therefore necessary to make every effort to ensure the existence of the company, including by the State. Another reason to ensure the conditions of operation of the company is to maintain quality jobs. This, as I have already mentioned, is particularly important because of already too high, unfortunately, more than 25% of unemployment in the Pomur region. However, maintaining the business should be, or at least should be, the financial interest of the State, because according to the calculation of the smooth operation, the Nafta Group will be able to provide, through taxes and other obligations, a fairly large amount of resources to the state budget. Obstacles to the problems will only be possible through the active participation of the Slovenian Government and the Ministry of Economy. In this case, in my opinion and in my opinion, it is not a matter of scattering money into a non-performing company. In view of the fact that events and decisions over the next two weeks will be crucial for the rescue of Petrochem and, on condition of its long-term existence, you, Minister Dragoja, ask: How will the government or your ministry actively participate in this challenging task? In doing so, I stress once again that I am not referring to direct capital investments, but, above all, to finding optimal solutions in relation to the temporary liquidity of the company. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Dragon Method.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, the issue is very topical. We are working actively at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to resolve the issue. So far, the business restructuring of Nafte Lendava as a business group is managed by the Slovenian Compensation Company, which is the owner or manager of these capital shares on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. So far, some key substantive decisions have been made to guide the business and business prospects of individual companies in the Nafte Lendava Group. It is most important that Geoenergo, d.o.o. was established with the objective of exploiting non-conventional hydrocarbons, and this has been actively enabled by the Republic of Slovenia in such a way as to limit its capital participation in this company or in a group with Petrol d.d., which is a partner in this joint venture. The second key measure was the establishment of Eko-Nafta d.o.o., which serves as a storage function for strategic reserves of petroleum derivatives and which has a contract with MGRT to carry out this activity and with the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for trade reserves. As the third basic restructuring direction of Nafte Lendava is the gradual privatisation of individual companies from Nafte Lendava, which has already been partially implemented, such as the divestment of Geoenergo, Engineering and use of these privatisation purchases for business restructuring and for the creation of the competitive capacity of other groups, in particular Nafta - Petrochem, d.o.o. It should be noted, however, that in the context of the measures already implemented, the European Commission initiated a procedure for the review of State aid granted at the beginning of the month, on three bases. First, Nafta - Petrochem received a total loan amount of EUR 12 million in 2010 from business banks, but the parent company Nafte Lendava came as a guarantor for these loans. Furthermore, in 2011, Nafte Lendava contributed EUR 5.51 million to Nafta - Petrochem. These funds were acquired by Nafta - Petrochem in the form of shares of two subsidiaries of Nafte Lendava, namely Nafta Engineering and Nafta - Geoterm, and can therefore again be considered unlawful State aid. Finally, in 2011, Nafta Lendava was recapitalised by Nafta - Petrochem at EUR 10 million; for the first time with a recapitalisation of EUR 6.6 million and then EUR 3.4 million. These are all interventions that may be considered unlawful State aid and the European Commission has called on the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia to make an appropriate statement to individual undertakings in the Nafta Lendava Group regarding the granting of these State aid forms. However, as far as resolving the current situation is concerned, I will be able to give a more precise answer below.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for the description and outline of the situation, that is more or less what we are all aware of together, and therefore my question was also focused on not expecting concrete capital investments, for which or for the like of what we have heard, there are also problems regarding past such transactions. The European Commission's observation is also in the palm of its hand. That is why my question has been focused on how the government and your ministry can help bridge solutions or actually find solutions to this problem, because it is being assessed, as I have already pointed out in the first place, that it is potentially a profitable activity that can, except by providing important jobs in the environment, also in its industry nature, constitute added value in the wider environment. In particular, from this point of view, I see this importance of cooperation between the Slovenian government and your ministry. I am sure that, on the basis of the expertise available to you, solutions can be found. So, the hope is undoubtedly, and therefore the wider interest of society, especially the Pomurskies, is expressed, and finally, I should like to point out that workers themselves have shown maximum willingness through their trade unions and leadership to cooperate in solving this problem. So we expect that that part of the response that I am about to receive will indeed be directed in the right direction and will also mean preserving this company and jobs in the case of Nafte - Petrochem. Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u190	The Ministry is aware of difficult situations. As for the liquidity situation in Nafta - Petrochem, we had a meeting last week with the management of both the business group and companies. A liquidity deficit of €800,000 has been identified, of which €600,000 has been found to pay salaries and contributions and a circulation of €200,000 for turnover. In what way will this liquidity deficit be covered, it was agreed at a meeting with representatives of companies in the group and with representatives of the Soda – by selling spare parts to repair the production of methanol of around 195 000 euros, by selling unnecessary assets of around 200 000 euros, by selling CO2 coupons of 90 000 euros and by renting a loan of 317 000 euros for operating assets. To the extent that all these measures are successfully implemented, these distortions can be resolved, while the conditions will also be ensured for the production of methanol in Nafta Lendava to be restored within a month and a half. At the same time, the refinancing activities of Eco Nafta’s credit liabilities are also under way, where the company has already acquired loans under extremely unacceptable, non-competitive credit conditions prior to the time of the loan. In this part we are looking for an opportunity together with the Slovenian Compensation Society. I also think that it is important to stress the need to appeal to employees so that they do not unnecessarily escalate the situation that is really sensitive at this time and to ensure social peace that allows for the prioritisation of commitments that have fallen and the conditions for the production of methanol to be started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We turn to the next question put by Mr Ljubo Žnidar to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology to Mr Method Dragoni.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u192	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! Regardless of last year's amendment to the Company Act, which changed the status rules for the establishment and operation of companies of entrepreneurs and connected persons, abuses continue to occur in this area. Violentness is a number of species. Above all, my primary purpose is not to focus on the very process of opening up societies, but then on the day that these companies are already open. On the one hand, we are working with legislation to create an enabling environment for entrepreneurs and to give them open opportunities for their economic development, and on the other hand, we are promoting some abuse in the same procedures. Thus, I continue to believe that surveillance is weak and that there is no clear transparency from which it would be possible to understand abuses in this area. As a result, Mr. Secretary, I ask the question: How will the Ministry establish a transparent and uniform register of enterprises? In what way will abuses regarding the establishment of new societies be prevented?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! With regard to measures to prevent abuses in respect of the establishment of new companies, I would like to point out that functional information solutions concerning the verification of restrictions on the establishment of companies and entrepreneurs and the acquisition of business shares have been applied only from February 2014. We estimate that it is still a little early for a credible analysis of the effects of the verification of restrictions, but we can certainly say that the first estimates are that the measure has at least partially achieved its purpose. However, the work on preventing the abuse of the establishment and operation of companies has not yet been completed or has just begun. The Ministry is aware of certain specific forms of abuse of the establishment and closure of companies with a view to avoiding payment of salaries and social contributions and the like. To this end, meetings were organised in February and April at which the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the police, the Labour Inspectorate, the Market Inspectorate, the registrar authorities and other stakeholders exchanged opinions and views on possible solutions. Participants were united in the need to upgrade existing control mechanisms that would curb unfair business practices in setting up and closing companies. We see solutions in the new Law on Economic Companies, which is being prepared by the Ministry, which will be submitted to the Government after the summer holidays and then to the National Assembly. At the same time, we are also considering the possibility of establishing a single register of legal entities that would effectively address abuses related not only to the establishment of companies, but also to the establishment and recording of various other legal forms. In this context, at least the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology wishes to establish a single business register of entities and other legal entities in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer or question? Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u196	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. From your answer, it is possible to understand that there is considerable thinking and also a few measures to prevent these abuses in the future. In particular, I would focus on two types of abuse; one you have already mentioned, these are different ways of economic injury, and the other is the establishment and sale of established companies to foreigners, thereby obtaining work permits and, I would say, the arrival of labour from other countries into the European Union. If I go to just one specific case where one person has opened more than a thousand 500 companies. In my opinion, this case was much too late, or this case should have been identified by its action and by such an enormous number of open companies of one person much earlier. I therefore hope that these measures will achieve their purpose and that, in particular, these two types of economic damage and employment are allowed for foreigners to prevent this. I also ask, if possible, another word about this: How can this be done in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have a chance to supplement your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much. As far as the abuse of legal persons for obtaining work permits or restrictions on employment is concerned, this aspect has already been highlighted at this interdepartmental meeting or coordination. The solution could not yet be described, but we will pay particular attention to these aspects, and we will certainly try to put them into law as soon as possible and also into the mechanisms by which the existing inspection services control the functioning of economic operators, in particular the implementation of labour law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, will raise the next question. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues! During this time, the 10th anniversary of the second earthquake in Posoča remains open to many questions. Above all, it is problematic that this year's implementation budget item has decreased from the last five-million-euro rebalancing to 1.4 million euros, which is not likely to be a large amount for the entire state budget, but more than 4 million, as far as the reduction was concerned, poses a very significant problem for the continuation of the earthquake recovery. Today, a few hours ago, we felt what it meant when the soil shook, what a psychological feeling it was, even for those in safe houses, let alone those waiting for some rehabilitation and new construction. At the moment, EUR 9 million of the contracts concluded are for the circus, of which the state's funds are 8 million. In view of the realisation so far, 2.8 million Euros of state resources are in implementation and therefore still unaccounted for. The share of own resources in this sum is EUR 650 000. As is apparent from the 2014 rebalancing, EUR 1.4 million and the latest interviews held at the Ministry, and the desire expressed for as little disruption as possible in the implementation of works or the non-stopping of open construction sites, and also in the light of the early provision of housing owners' residence in their real estates, where works are actually already being carried out, additional funds would need to be provided in the financial year 2014 for the provision of construction and maintenance works following contracts already concluded. However, any deviation from the additional resources required means stopping work in open buildings, potential material damage on unfinished buildings, re-injuring owners and repair operators and a large disinvolvement of investors and additional costs, which will be borne primarily by the state budget. In the event of construction stops in the buildings mentioned above, additional costs are also incurred which were not foreseen. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Who will present to investors the fact that active construction works are stopped? Who's going to present this to the contractors? Given the fact that 2.3 million Euros of state aid applicants are at the moment, it is said that the role is on the ICC, and also [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the investors of Circus 58: [[…]] Who will tell them that the start of the renovation in 2014 will be delayed or not to begin? Who will answer to the Ministry for the conservation costs of construction projects?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Nice greeting, Mr. Ambassador! Some information at the beginning, if you don't mind. On 12 April 1998, the earthquake caused great damage and by the end of 2000 the earthquake recovery programme of EUR 100 million was completed. On 12 July 2004, at 15.04, the ground was reshuffled and the estimated cost of renewal for the current earthquake amounted to €67 million. Up to this point, €53.8 million has been earmarked and realized, and if we had the dynamics so far, the earthquake recovery would have been completed in 2015 and 2016. Due to the extremely tight fiscal situation, the budget rebalancing in 2014 has drastically reduced all resources under the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to address the consequences of natural disasters, from €21.2 million to €4.9 million. In this way, the earthquake’s renewal of the Court has also changed from EUR 5.5 million to EUR 1.446 million. Unfortunately, this is not the only area the Ministry has to cover in part. We have a lot of other things, but I can tell you that later. The actual open construction site is 37. The fact is that we have also been with you, Mr Member, as with the mayors, twice. Up to this point, we have managed to provide an additional 255,000 euros, which in practice means: out of 37 buildings, 23 buildings, I think almost uninterruptedly continue construction. According to my data, colleagues, for further work on the remaining facilities, this is 14 objects, within these available options, are looking for the possibility that at least three to five facilities within these facilities at our disposal will continue further. Of course, we plan to continue their work in the autumn. What needs to be known is that in the 2015 budget, all the resources in the sector are planned to address the consequences of natural disasters of €9 and a half million. For the earthquake reconstruction of Posačija, there are 5.5 million euros. The fact is that I, as a resortary minister, would like to succeed all the reptiles currently in Slovenia, as large as we are directly responsible, as well as the small and medium, for which the municipalities are responsible, and there is also no money, as well as some other rehabilitation programmes. We have as much money as we have, and within this we are looking for the most optimal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u204	Yes, thank you. I don't think that statistics need be interpreted, but Mr. Minister, you haven't answered any specific question: Who will present the construction stop to investors with contracts already concluded and who will take over the costs of unfulfilled contracts? It is necessary to know that the contracts are three-partite: on the one hand it is the owner, on the other hand it is the State and also the contractor. Who's going to present this to the investors? Who's the contractor? And also: Who will ensure that in the following year there will not be a re-deployment of those who already have applications this year? Who guarantees that they will actually do their jobs in 2015? I also asked: Who will cover the cost of preserving the construction and compensation required by the contractors who are withdrawing from the construction site at this time? You haven't answered these questions. We have already discussed once that it is pointless to close active construction sites and extend resettlement because this country essentially costs twice as much as it costs, but also causes a lot of uncertainty and power in those waiting for an aftershock. It is not just individual cases, it is also a very difficult situation where people are also older, who have been waiting years for this renewal to be completed and are in a constitutional sense in an unequal situation with the others. The Ministry needs to be aware of that. This implementation is not the same as in other natural disasters where we do not have specific laws, where we do not have a government programme, which is confirmed, where we do not have contracts signed, etc. That is why I expect a concrete response. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u206	Once again, Your Honor, allow me to answer! According to me, the Ministry's representatives conducted coordination talks with all the mayors of the affected areas. Written opinions or information on stopping the implementation of the earthquake recovery have not yet been made available to individuals, as this has not yet occurred. I told you that we have provided additional money and now there are searches, which are those projects that must go on. Nevertheless, allow us to have €4.9 million available this year. Of this, the Commission for Natural Disaster Assessment 100 000, the rehabilitation of medium- and small-scale beaches, which is very large in this country, only 35 000, the rehabilitation of large-scale beaches 200 000, the earthquake recovery of Soča million 447 000, the September 2007 storm 32 000, the post-2008 storm 20 000, the Solin rehabilitation, this is one project where co-financing from elsewhere, one million 600 000 and programmes to address the consequences of natural disasters, the 2010 floods and the 2012 floods, and a total of one million half. As a department minister, I would actually like these numbers to be completely different, but they are what they are. We are all aware of the state of the country, and that is why we try to do so within these numbers. Priority is given to those emergency measures that are directly linked to human lives at risk. In fact, some programmes are being extended, and I have told you, Mr Member, that 5.5 million euros are planned for the Presidency next year. This in practice means that the programme, which should be completed in 2016, will not be 2016, but will be 2018. These are the only financial resources currently available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you for saying that again. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that the Minister's reply be discussed at one of the following meetings. I think the answer is pretty official, too. I think that the Minister does not think as he has now read, because the entire ministry has, I think, over 500 million euros in budget, and when we talk about individual posts, we know that the items within the Ministry of Agriculture have been greatly reduced by this last balance. The main reduction was the removal of natural and other disasters, in particular the earthquake recovery item. As I said, from 5.5 million to 1.4 million, and nothing stands for the Minister's assurance that there are 5.5 million in the next budget, because in this budget too this item was the same, so it is only a pigeon on the roof. However, I must point out to the Minister that there are likely to be other measures that individual victims will have to take, as it is unacceptable that someone who is a signatory to these treaties will respond to such a stepmotherly attitude. The signed contract with a deadline for implementation is a certain bond, and I do not think that there is a country that does not respect the rule of law and does not respect its signed contracts. In this case, I think it gives the ministry, and also everyone sitting here, some strange example to all citizens and all companies in this country. I think it's free to talk about how to respect the rule of law, unless even the state respects its signed contracts and no one provides these investors and these contractors with a refund in the event of non-execution of contracts. I think that's unacceptable. I believe that within the Ministry there is a possibility of reallocation of additional funds, successfully, if necessary, to these items, which are necessary for smooth work to be carried out, even from the point of view of which the Minister has warned, even in terms of security. Above all, it is important that we respect what is signed and that at least the contracts signed are implemented and that these works do not stop and that people who are now displaced are returned to their homes as soon as possible. I will not read the letters received by the Ministry, the President of the Government as well as the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and many others. I think it's for the country if it doesn't find a circus of 2 million for some of the works that are signed to be done, big [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The following question will be raised by Mr Only Bevk to the Minister for Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, Your Honor! In early April this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decree declaring church laufars and the drifting and level desert a living masterpiece of national importance. The announcement thus ensures public access and transfer from generation to generation and the preservation of protected components of more recognizable deserts in Slovenia. At the same time, the name has an important effect on the tourist attraction of the places, as well as strengthening local identity. In particular, it should be pointed out that the adoption of the decree fulfils the precondition for the application of our living cultural heritage in the international environment. It is stated in the working paper of the decrees on the proclamation of church laufaria and the craftsmen's and level-level desert for living art that the declaration is the first step towards entering Unesc's list of the insubstantial heritage of mankind. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken this first step towards entering the Unesc List of Insubstantial Heritage of Humanity by adopting relevant decisions in the past in three other cases. At the highest level of state, the Škopheloški solion, which was first declared a living masterpiece in 2012, is also protected and has been joined by traditional production of kranj sausages and the production of love-making trails or Easter shoes. Now, of course, we're waiting for an upgrade to the foundation, to sign into Unesc's list. The deadline for the award of nominations at the headquarters of UNESCO shall be 31 March each year, but the nominations must be harmonised and confirmed by the profession as well as by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore the deadline for the submission of the application form in the Slovenian language and all annexes at the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia, which formally leads the nomination procedure, shall be 31 January at the latest in the current year. An application for the Sofia Passion was tabled within the deadline of last year and the decision is expected at the meeting of the Committee on Insubstantial Cultural Heritage in November this year. This year, however, no new applications were submitted by the State by 31 March. Regarding this Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc, I ask: What activities does the Ministry of Culture plan or carry out with regard to the nomination of living masterpieces of national importance for Unescov's representative list of the intangible cultural heritage of mankind? I thank the Minister very much for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u212	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member Bevk, thank you so much for asking! The Unesco Convention on the Protection of Insubstantial Cultural Heritage of 2003 established three mechanisms of intangible heritage at international level in the context of promoting international cooperation between the States parties to the Convention and maintaining an extremely intangible heritage at international level. First, the Representative List of the Cultural Heritage of Humanity, where, on the basis of the decision of the International Committee, various practices, presentations, expressions, skills and related tools, objects, products and cultural spaces that communities, groups and sometimes individuals recognize as an important part of their cultural heritage. The second instrument is a list of intangible cultural heritage, which needs to be protected urgently and without delay due to the risk of extinction, and the third is the Register of Good Practices, which contains successful examples of conservation and development of intangible cultural heritage. Slovenia has implemented the Convention with the new Cultural Heritage Protection Act 2008 and has since established a system for the protection of intangible living heritage at national level. Maybe just for a little while, how's the registration process going on on the UNESCO World Heritage List itself? The first prerequisite is that the inheritance is registered in the Register of Insubstantial Heritage. This is the basis for the State to declare an intangible heritage a monument of State importance. Of course, on the basis of the professional basis of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and on the basis of an appropriate initiative, this decree shall be adopted by the Government at the end. This is a prerequisite for the initiative of the local community operator or the State to be included in the Unesc list. A national coordinator, the Slovenian Ethnographic Museum, is established to perform professional work and to verify that the initiative is appropriate, meets the criteria, and makes a recommendation, followed by a presentation of the material in the institutions, the debate and, to the extent successful, the application for listing is submitted and forwarded to Paris. Mr President rightly noted that Slovenia has 5 masters of non-essential cultural heritage of national importance at its national level: the Bishop's Passion, the traditional production of Kranski sausages, the love drive, the ecclesiastical laufaria, the solitude and level desert, while 33 units and 66 carriers are still registered in the register, while we do not yet have any entry at international level. The decision on the entry of the bishop's solitaire will take place at this year's meeting of the international committee at the end of November, and the decision on the admission of traditional production of kranski sausages is in line with the rules included in the 2015 cycle, and the reason is that only one application per individual member has been accepted annually in the list of Unesco's intangible heritage. This is also why we are a little more tactful and considerate in entering future applications on Unesco. Indeed, this government adopted in April, just a few weeks ago, two decrees; a decree declaring the church laufaria a living masterpiece of national importance; and a decree declaring the solitude and level-level wasteland a living masterpiece of state importance. The announcements entered into force in mid-April, thus laying down the conditions for a regular procedure to start, to apply to Unesco in 2015 and then eventually to take a decision in 2016. However, it is particularly important because we want to play a single role for all traditional Slovenian idle moves. Here it seems to us that we will have more options, and in this way we would propose together to the entry a recreational, level-dwelling wasteland and the church laufaria, which have already been declared a living masterpiece of national importance. In addition to these, it is also likely that Škoromats and Kurents from the Ptujsko Field are currently in the final stage of the declaration of a living masterpiece of national importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the question or answer? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Thank you, too, Minister, for your answer. We've learned some new information, especially that the decision for the bishop's solitude is moving away for a year, if I understand correctly, but nothing. If we've waited so many years, we'll have another year. Nevertheless, I am glad that the activities in this area have accelerated, as there has been a delay in entering the World Heritage List for some time, and then the activities have been activated, so that we now have several more entries than it was a few years ago. Therefore, I believe that the Ministry or the competent service and the contractor of these procedures will be quick to do so with other activities, and that another masterpiece of state importance in the field of intangible or living heritage, as we say, will be added to the application. I am pleased that this will also be desert customs throughout the country, but we know that Croatia has also been very successful in entering their craftsmanship in the area of knave lace, so that we can take a step further in Slovenia. As you said before, 33 units of unimaginable cultural heritage have been entered in the register of intangible cultural heritage, which is why I am also interested in: What are the plans of the Ministry of Culture to promote the further proclamation of this heritage as a living masterpiece at the state level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Will you complete your answer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I've already made some plans. I may add very briefly only what is currently happening, what is what is happening, which is what the coordinator of the intangible cultural heritage of the Slovenian Ethnographic Museum is assessing at this point – the so-called process of demand is taking place before the decision to apply to the list of masterpieces of intangible cultural heritage of national importance. This is the following unfathomable heritage: Idrian and Slovenian lace, folklore group Ivana Navrátila from White Krajina, which performs Tuemal dances, and the Kurents from Ptujsko Polje. This is what the Slovenian Ethnographic Museum is currently dealing with and on the basis of these results a follow-up procedure will be initiated as provided for by the law and also by the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Dragutin Mate to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary! Last year and this year, we witnessed different weather conditions or special, changed conditions that had a profound impact on the conditions of farming in the Republic of Slovenia. We were affected by drought, floods, hail, now spring also by the glands and, as a result, by reptiles across much of Slovenia. Thus, the conditions for their work and the circumstances in which they work have changed considerably for farmers. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: What concrete measures, based on past experience at the systemic level, have your ministry taken to help farmers under these very changed operating conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr Member, for the very current question. Let me just say, the current assessment of the European Union is that at annual level we have damage due to natural disasters, particularly in agriculture and elsewhere, somewhere between 80 and 90 billion, because climate change is here and we are not prepared for them. The measures that we are implementing or starting to implement right now are quite something. The first is the new Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. The focus is that at least 30% of the money should be devoted to mitigating the effects of climate change. In our programme, which we have already submitted to Brussels and is now starting to be implemented once it is confirmed, we have given this money 47.4 per cent, which is slightly less than €400 million. However, the measures are as follows: transfer of knowledge, advice, investment in fixed assets – these are investments that have this component – agri-environmental climate payments, i.e. adaptation practices, organic farming, cooperation. Let me say it again, it's worth 400 million. We are changing some laws to make it easier to invest. The Law on Water is already in force in the National Assembly, so that some procedures will take place faster and some will not even be needed. The Nature Conservation Act also has, once adopted, some things that will make it easier to invest. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters has also been supplemented, and that is to say that even if there will ever be an acorn in the future, intervention law will not be required, but the acorn will then be described as a natural disaster. From 2007 onwards, I think we have made technological recommendations to reduce the vulnerability of agricultural production to drought. Under them is signed by Minister Iztok Jarc, now we have upgraded them. Thus, we have a week of new technological guidance, especially for maize, because maize is the biggest damage. This week, however, they will also be presented to the public at the press conference because it is just the right time to direct the farm, which are the technologies to use, which are the cultures to use to at least partially avoid the damage that is coming. We've funded three targeted development programmes. But what I'd like to say is this. We are currently preparing a new water management plan in the country. That's important, but now we have an old man who's running out. But the problem is that we don't have, if I say so simply, water reserves. At the moment, while we are building some irrigation systems, we simply do not have certain areas where irrigation water is even available or where additional accumulations are needed. This is because water resources or consumption compete with each other. The absolute advantage of water is, of course, drinking water. So underground water is especially designed for drinking water supply, liquid water and accumulation — and there is a division for energy, agriculture, and more. This is because everyone who wants to compete with water is simply at a time when it's dry. In addition, I would like to say the following, as this also affects the amount of accidents in agriculture. At this point, all seven regulations have already been adopted that discuss air improvement. In fact, air is also largely the cause of climate change and climate change. For the first time at this point, we're going to be spending ten, plus ten, plus twenty, so once it's done together, 40 million different measures will help reduce the burden of climate. At the moment, however, the situation in Slovenia is the same. As far as greenhouse gases are concerned, it is estimated that around 25 per cent of them are due to discharges caused by logistics. About 50 percent is the economy and energy. However, such greenhouse gases, originating in agriculture, are about 8.5 per cent, but no significant changes can be made in this area. However, the measures to be implemented are as follows. One part of the measures, this is a quarter, is designed to help transport, for line transport. However, 75 percent is for reduced energy consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Next question from Ahasuerus, you still have a chance to complete it. [[…]] Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Of course I'd have a supplementary question. Thank you, Minister, for these systemic solutions that you have presented, but I expected that there will also be more concrete information in your response. I would therefore like to ask as a supplementary question: How much money have you provided from the budget and from cohesion funds for irrigation systems, for cross-border networks and for similar concrete measures? These farmers need them right away, not in 2020 or I don't know when, but they need them right away, depending on the problems we had last year and let's say two years ago. What in particular have you done in your ministry to facilitate the acquisition of these funds in the light of long-term and very complex bureaucratic procedures? Many times we have seen in various TV shows what problems farmers have to come up with and what they must accomplish. I also have a particular interest in: What exactly did you do at your ministry to prevent these procedures from taking years to put into the premises, such as irrigation systems? Last year, we were able to watch a procedure in the Vipavska Valley for five years so that someone could put the irrigation system into space and I was interested: What exactly did the Ministry do? I want to know: At what stage specifically and precisely did it pay compensation for damage to agriculture from the previous year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Here, you have a chance to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u224	If you'll allow me to start at the back, then where are we with the damages? The program was written. The money we managed to get is just under €6 million. This is because the budget reserve, which has 25 million for natural disasters, has already been exhausted by the intervention law on the acorn, but I have not been able to get all 10 million, which is slightly less than 6 million. The program is written, I hope it comes through the government within two or three weeks. However, I am aware, Mr Member, that, in essence, given the extent of the damage, it is very small money. Therefore, it is also important that citizens and citizens know because last year the damage was extremely high, about EUR 100 million. But for us all the last years – let's say, if we look at maybe 10 years ago, the share of the damage that was paid, about 40 percent and falling down, last year was some 10 percent of the damage, and this share is still falling. However, this is linked to the amount of money in the budget reserve for these purposes. As far as you are concerned, the amount of money available is now once more than in the old programming period. The fact that the new programming period is characterised by the fact that money can be significantly easier to move between measures. In general, all the money we can use for this kind of purpose is €400 million. Will there be any calls this year? There'll be calls. This is because we now see that some of the cohesion money 2007-2013 will not be used because some farm individuals, including the companies that have received the decisions, report that they are simply not financially strong enough to execute them. However, since a specific rule applies to agricultural policy, we will now collect all these numbers and go with the invitation to tender. Although young farmers and complementary activities take priority in this year's calls, now that new sources are opening up, we will put these measures in. Therefore, irrigation measures and networks will be at least €50 million, but if there is a greater need, even more. As far as placement is concerned, there are two important things. We are part of the general placement in space – you are probably aware that the competent minister, who is the minister of space, is preparing a simplification of legislation. This is where we cooperate, and we will continue to cooperate. In the areas relating to water permits, as there are some setbacks, the amendment of the water law is also intended for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would suggest, irrespective of the fact that the Minister has largely answered the questions that have arisen in this reply, however, some areas for which it would be good to have a broader debate, particularly because of the fact that, of course, self-sustainment is at a relatively low level or is still decreasing as it has been in the past. It is therefore important what agricultural policy is, and it is important how the Minister fights for the resources he provides for the resolution of natural disasters, the damage caused by some external factors, droughts, floods and, of course, all other factors that arise independently of us, people. I'm worried, I'm worried that funding from year to year for damages is shrinking, that there are increasing delays. Of course, I understand that everything is not done yet, but farmers find it very difficult to understand that the programme for how the funds for last year's annual damage amounting to 100 million will be distributed at 6 million, a little less, 6 percent will be around, and that the programme is done. They still don't have that money. Most people have already processed their fields, invested new funds, and no one asks them where they got this money. With last year's crop, of course, they didn't earn as much as they could. I think it would be good to discuss this, to find some new ways or to change the relationship that is now in place in this year's budget changes. I understand the minister is in trouble. However, when the budget was adopted in the Government, it could also have its impact, not least the Vice-President of the Government, it also has a very high rating on public scales and has some authority. With this authority, it could affect the fact that more money would be allocated to this area, which would make life easier for the peasant population in Slovenia, which is not negligible. So I propose and I hope that we will vote in votes to have a broader debate on this subject, not as much as a debate just about what the Minister has done and what he has not done, but mainly about what we could do in this area to increase the self-sustainment of the country and to make life easier for farmers, especially when they are affected by natural disasters; a natural disaster in the form of drought, floods, floods, floods and, of course, everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The following question will be raised by Mr Jožef Horvat to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will ask the Minister a question in writing, I have also announced it in writing, and, of course, I expect him to answer orally at the next meeting. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! In Slovenia we have a dramatic situation in the area of employment, the number of registered job seekers has reached 130 000, most of all we are concerned about the rise in the number of unemployed young people, educated people. They seek employment in other countries and are unlikely to return to their homeland again. With the departure of young professional staff, Slovenia loses its largest capital. Let me just serve with the work of fresh data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, 16 April; for example, in my environment, which in three Premur municipalities has more than 25 % unemployment, the largest unemployment in the country being recorded in the municipality of Kuzma. Twenty-six.7 percent and then, of course, Dubrovnik and Rogaševci. The solution to this problem can also be foreign direct investment in Slovenia, and the necessary condition for them is an attractive business environment. What Slovenia is like today in the eyes of investors as a location for foreign direct investment shows the annual measurements and surveys carried out by the various relevant institutions. The most important obstacles to foreign direct investment are high taxes, payment indiscipline, high labour costs, difficulties in firing employees, corruption, inefficient judicial system, poor functioning of the Tax Administration, barriers to the purchase of buildings and buildings, inadequate bankruptcy regulations and so on and so on. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance as custodian of public finances and also the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia: What plans does his ministry, he himself and, of course, also the Government have to turn almost hermetically closed Slovenia for foreign direct investment into an attractive location for foreign direct investment as soon as possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. You will receive the answer, of course, orally at the next meeting. Now the question of the question will be posed by the Magi. Mr Andrej Vizjak, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u230	Dear Minister, Madam Vice President! Dear Minister, about two months ago, you held a hearing before your mother's work body by the Committee on the Economy, where Members listened attentively to your predictions, your goals, your priorities as Minister of Economy and Technology. Virtually all the media have highlighted one very important goal, I think, which is a very important goal that you have set yourself for your mandate. You have predicted, I literally read: "My ambition will reduce the number of employees in the Ministry by 30% within one year. In doing so, we want to set an example for the other authorities in the Government, so that this can be achieved." Look, this forecast has opened up a broader content, which is important, and I was hoping that you would take these predictions seriously and that you will do so. In fact, it has opened one fact that you intend to debirocratise the functioning of your ministry by analysing business processes, and that you want the Government to do so also in the wider and wider public sector. In short, this would also reduce some current budget expenditure and thus the functioning of the country. This could also relieve the economy of its duty, and this would, in my view, be the best measure to promote economic growth. Dear Minister, you come from the economy. You know that administrations, i.e. those executive parts of companies, set certain objectives, present them to owners and the owners also suspend them if these objectives are not met. About 14 days ago, I asked you in a written parliamentary question what measures will be taken to achieve this objective. In short, you replied to me that this was not your priority and that you would practically not do this and you would say what was done in the past before your arrival. Today one of the Slovenian newspapers also writes that the opposite is true; without putting this as a priority and a serious task, you have even hired new people at the Ministry. Dear Minister, once again I ask you: Will this prediction, this ambition of yours, this goal that you have set for yourself at the time of your appointment, be fulfilled? Are you really going to reduce the number of employees in the Ministry by 30 percent within a year — now within ten months, since you have been a minister for two months — and by what measures?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, if that's what I can call you. Surely you know better than I do at a given time in the ministry because you led it one full mandate and, above all, you led it successfully. When I was invited to the government, I set myself some personal goals, including a few ambitions, not just the goals that those who invited me to the government would like to see. In fact, it is a great challenge for me, given what you have said that I come from the economy, from real economic environments, also to increase efficiency in an organism such as the Ministry in a smaller composition, as part of the state administration, as well as in other bodies that form part of the Ministry or are subordinated to the Ministry in one way or another. I would ask that you consider this ambition or this goal not to be populism, but actually I mean it very seriously. I have worked twice on such projects in my current practice. However, I must say that these projects always require a proper approach. They require a very systematic approach and also require a certain degree of level-setting to introduce changes, i.e. changes relating to both optimisation of business processes and changes relating to optimisation of organisational structures. I want to assure you that we will launch the project. We'll start it in one of the narrower project groups in mid-May. Then we will continue with wider activity during the summer months, during vacations, so that we can draw up an action plan by the end of the summer, on this basis, on how we will implement this. What the individual media mentioned in part, or what they point to in fact, is our emphasis that, at this point, when there are many substantive themes that I, as Minister myself, must be won, I have not given this subject priority, because I think there is always a priority in content and on the tasks that the Ministry must carry out under certain government policies, as well as objectives that are of a substantive nature, organisational optimization, something that I am committed to and which I will also give an appropriate priority to. I may have overemphasized in this assessment that the target is too high or that the question is whether it will be fully achievable. I must say that the comparison that I have compared to the ministry in the previous mandate, which goes on more than 15 years ago, has changed a lot and is more complex than it was then and is significantly more bound to European regulation and to the demand that the European legal order relates, but nevertheless I want to ensure that this remains a challenge and that we will approach this project within the time limit I have stated. But I'd like to support it with specific numbers. I don't know which media you looked at, the day I took over the ministry, there were 436 employees at the Ministry, with the exclusion of the government's development and cohesion policy service, leaving 172 employees, 267 employees. Which is practically at the level this ministry had at the beginning of the year. As far as new employment is concerned, we have hired the Secretary of State and extended the employment of three staff members in the Cabinet. There is no such large-scale new employment, and with the greatest responsibility we are implementing this issue, and I think we will [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Request for complete response. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u234	Dear Minister! I agree with you that you are probably a little hasty, as he probably hastened, I think, Minister Križanič, when he predicted that the minimum wage would be 1,000 euros, or Mr Erjavec, who also predicted that the pension would be too high – at hearings. I understand that it is difficult for a candidate for a minister to appear before Members and have to present specific objectives, such a flag, I would say, so optimistic and, not least, also in anticipation, because in the end it happens that we are all in some way in trouble or disappointed. But look, why am I warning you this? Not because I wanted to warn you about what I just said, but because I think it's a positive signal. In fact, if we analyze the Slovenian budget, we can see that current expenditure – current expenditure is higher in the public sector, interest, transfers, subsidies – that these current expenditure is one billion, respected minister – five, six years in a row – such as current revenue, while current revenue is tax and non-tax revenue. This means that we eat significantly more than we collect, so your message, because you have addressed it in some way also to other resources, has been taken away in this context: czech, we will rationalise the functioning of the country so that we can burden the economy so that the economy will function. So in this supplementary question, I ask you: Did we understand this prediction correctly? Did the government actually set itself this goal, so that even with some serious rationalisation of the public sector, it can, as a result, because the expenditure will change, relieve the economy and reduce the tax burden?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u235	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u236	That's the goal I set myself personally. I think it would be irresponsible to say that this is the government's goal. Once again, I would like to stress that this objective or intention will be carried out very seriously, and secondly, that I will also carry it out in a responsible manner, in a responsible manner, in a responsible manner, as regards the functioning of the ministry as an authority within the government, and secondly in a responsible way, as regards the co-workers of the ministry and other bodies, by promoting the expertise, competence and motivation of people for better work.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u237	Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u238	From the Minister's reply, which in my opinion also deserves a debate in this Parliament and a vote on this – and therefore, procedurally, I propose – there is a greater difference between his personal perceptions of what needs to be done and between some of the government's views. The government stands in the position that it will not rationalise any more, which is worth mentioning, the functioning of the country, and this is also seen through numbers. Looking at the budget plans for the coming years, the expenditure side does not change significantly, and unfortunately the revenue side is falling when we talk about current revenue. The government does not see ambition here, but it sees ambition in increasing tax burdens and especially taxes on the economy. I think it's the wrong way, and the distinguished minister, if I understand correctly, we share that view. We share this view that a reform of the public sector should be made, that business functions should be thoroughly combed, that the public sector is doing today, that it should be decided fundamentally to intervene in this sector and that the functioning of this country should be significantly improved. Then we can count on a medium-term objective to also balance the budget and, in a further step, unload the economy again so that this lean body will be able to live with the relatively low burdens of the economy. This is a view that is unfortunately not shared with you by the missing part of the government, which is not here today, and it would be nice if anyone else could hear it. That is why it seems right for us to have a broader debate about this, because it is a conceptual issue not only of our future but also of how we will implement our fiscal rule, which we have written down in the Constitution and how we will start to bring this country to justice in the future. Earlier, when I asked the Minister of Finance a question, I said that it was the country's debt to the place of the young generation. We borrow that money today, we spend it, they pay it back, and then we'll expect high pensions. That's irresponsible! Therefore, I believe that at least what is needed in such a concept is to have a discussion in this Parliament. If there is anything in this House, it is a debate on these conceptual issues. I wish you, Your Honor, good luck with that. I'll ask you another question. By summer, I will leave you alone, and in September, just wait for the question again, and I expect that there will be some results.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisic, President of the Government in the role of Minister of Health, mag. Alenki Bratušek, who has been absent since 13 p.m. today, but I assume you want to ask an oral question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would certainly like to ask this question, and I also expect an oral answer at the next meeting. On 14 February this year, the Committee of the National Health Council held a public opinion on the use of cannabis for medical purposes. At that time, the Secretary of State assured them that they would soon allow the use of cannabinoid medicinal products. My question is: How do you progress by facilitating the use of such medicines in Slovenian practice? A more accurate understanding of the problem in this area clearly shows that doctors already prescribe such medicines, however, that patients with prescriptions for these medicines must go abroad where they are paid from their pockets. If they want, and in many cases this has also happened, the Department of Health Insurance will reimburse them for this cost, which means that Slovenian healthcare sends Slovenian patients abroad to serve foreign pharmacies and foreign pharmacists. Here we need to be aware that people in their health crisis are resorting to various methods and preparations. Because this area is not adequately regulated, they are referred to preparations that are not adequately controlled, are found without medical supervision and are not adequately treated for dosing. Some appropriate regulation in this area would greatly help to make such medicines more manageable and significantly more effective. However, I must also draw attention here to the quality of such products which they receive on the black market. Given that the current role of the Minister of Health is the President of the Government, I think that, at this point in time, it can look even more broadly at this area, so that more consideration can be given to regulating cannabis in a way – as an example would be given by the US Federal State of Colorado, where it is only this year that they are planning $100 million of taxes collected from this title alone. However, Colorado has only 2.5 times the population of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you very much. In accordance with your request, you will receive an answer to your question at your next meeting. Let me say, at the same time, that we will be in line with the request of the Magi. Andrej Visiak was decided on his proposal, his request for a debate tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the next question put by the Magi. Marko Pogačnik to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufer, who is now officially absent from 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u242	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to point out in the introduction that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would expect an oral reply from the Minister of Finance at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. I ask Dr. Uroš Chufer, Minister of Finance: What does the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to do with a tax debt of companies that exceeds EUR 1 billion at a given time? What measures does the Ministry of Finance intend to take in this direction and within what time frame when these measures are expected? It should be borne in mind that this corporate tax debt is already more than €1 billion, and this is probably the fact that an active tax debt is more than €600 million. I mean, and we have repeatedly pointed out in the SDS Group that it would be more reasonable or necessary than raising taxes and thus burdening the economy to take measures to eliminate this debt. I think that the stability of public finances would change significantly here, reduce the burden on the economy and reduce the burden on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, I cannot imagine why there are two types of entrepreneurs in Slovenia, two types of companies, one paying taxes on the other hand, and one segment not paying taxes. I think it's unfair, in the first place, to entrepreneurs who pay taxes. I want to know: How could such a high tax debt have occurred? What caused the tax authority to allow such an amount of tax debt to occur? About half of this tax debt can probably already be written off in some way, since this tax debt is a form of bankruptcy for companies. At the same time, I would like to mention that the government of Alenka Bratušek has so far not taken any action in this area. I would like to point out that the government of Janez Janša has taken action by publicly declaring taxpayers, and we know that as much as possible part of the current coalition of parties objected to such a proposal. But that first phase measure ensured that this tax debt fell between €5 million and €10 million in about one to two months. I think it would make more sense by strict measures. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the tax debt to recover and thereby facilitate the business of the economy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you very much. In accordance with your request, mag. Marko Pogačnik, you will receive an oral reply from the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Čufer, at the next meeting in response to the questions. The question of Mr Marijan Pojbič to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology will be put to Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Today a lot of words have already been said, which I think is also right, because at this point the key question is how to get the economy out of this crucial problem situation that we now have in Slovenia. Dear Minister, we have always listened to by the government of Alenka Bratušek, how important it is for this government and how this government is trying to arrange a more friendly environment for the smooth development of the economy, and how it will talk about what it is and will do to ensure that the economy breathes in with its lungs – provide better conditions for achieving greater competitiveness and a higher added value to the Slovenian economy. Since then, we have experienced virtually nothing. On the contrary, the Government, in which you are sitting, the distinguished Minister, including you, who, according to my assessment, are still responsible for creating the right conditions for the functioning of the economy and also for what the government of Alenka Bratušek accepts in this area – I am sure that, as its responsible minister responsible for the economy, you should not allow the government of Alenka Bratušek to impose additional burdens on the economy with new taxes on the economy or the increase of existing ones, which, according to my assessment, also include the increase in excise duties on fuel, which inevitably places an additional burden on the economy. If the government of Alenka Bratušek understands this as providing more favourable conditions for economic growth and new jobs, it is a truly sad image and enormous damage for all of Slovenia and, most importantly, for the Slovenian economy, which is undoubtedly the only one that can save Slovenia from the present unenviable situation. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What do you think about raising excise duties on motor fuels, which certainly increases costs in the economy, which further reduces the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy? What will you do as Minister of the Economy to prevent the government of Alenka Bratušek from making such harmful decisions that continue to push the Slovenian economy towards complete collapse?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u245	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! Your question is very topical. A rise in tax burdens is always a very unpopular measure, especially if it has a negative impact on the economy. The circumstances in which decisions have been made to raise excise duties are familiar to you. They were linked to the need to replace the shortfall foreseen in this year's budget by the introduction of a property tax. Because of the unconstitutionality of this law, the government has sought solutions. The compromise agreed within the coalition is a combination of savings and, in part, a selective combination of additional taxes, which are limited exclusively to excise duties. The issue, including within the government, was difficult. I must say that, despite everything, I consider it a success to agree that no electricity excise duty has been introduced, which was in the first proposal for measures, but that excise duty has been substantially limited only to the segment of oil derivatives. I would say that, as far as the economy is concerned, this is certainly not a positive signal, but in my assessment of reality this is one of the compromises that allows for a balance between the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment on the one hand and the balance of public finances on the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u247	Here's the request for a reply, Mr. Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u248	Dear Mr. Secretary! I hope you understand that this isn't nearly an attack on you personally. I think that at this point in time, in this country, the moment has finally come, that no matter who is in any position, each of us in our field takes responsibility. Dear Minister, it is unreasonable, unacceptable and unacceptable for me, and I am sure that for most of the Slovenian economy, just to fill the budget, we accept the new taxation of the Slovenian economy when we are aware in advance that this will cause enormous damage in the long run. By what we have done, we have done absolutely nothing useful for the Slovenian economy, for the Slovenian country, for Slovenian citizens and for their future. We have definitely taken decisions that are necessarily harmful, because at the moment the Slovenian economy is needed by a policy of huge support, because otherwise we have no opportunity to change trends in Slovenia, and not only that, we also have no possibility of going on the road from this crisis that we have entered. The exclusive economy is one that can solve these situations. If we do not, and as an economic minister in this government, create appropriate and better conditions for the normal functioning of the economy and greater competitiveness within the global market in which the Slovenian economy operates, then we have no choice. Dear Mr. Secretary, the promises, the promises and the promises again. That's unacceptable, and you can't live with that. Please, if you are a real economic minister, you would have to step down immediately if you couldn't accomplish what you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u249	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Your Honor! As far as the impact of these measures is concerned, I fully agree with you that these measures do not promote the competitiveness of the economic environment, which do not promote the functioning of the economy, but excise duty is a measure aimed at regulating or taxing consumption, not so much at taxing economic activity. In order to improve Slovenia's international economic competitiveness, I think it is most important at a given time to approach the fiscal burden of work, since in this part of Slovenia is the least competitive or relatively lagging behind competitive environments. I myself am working on this, and also the Government, that the conditions for the fiscal burden of work are created, especially in order to create the conditions for the major progression that we have in the fiscal burden of work to be eliminated. This is also the element most often heard from potential foreign investors regarding the competitiveness of the Slovenian environment in terms of fiscal burdens. So that both I and the Government will continue to do so – we do not promise to do so immediately, but at least I will work personally in this direction, so that we can put such an approach into the budget documents when preparing the budget for next year and give a positive signal to the economy to relieve it and support it in further growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Request for a debate, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I propose that we have a broader hearing on this issue in the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Minister, this government will, we will, we will, we will, we will, in God's name, tell it once and for all! Dear Minister, jobs fall from day to day. I have visited some companies that we have visited as a parliamentary group, and people warn us, entrepreneurs, craftsmen warn us that the state of the country is in which it is, and in the way it works in this area, the economy has no chance to survive. In what way do we imagine that we will fill in the future budget? How are we going to solve everything that's piled up, all those debts, interest and so on? How will we resolve this if we do not make key changes and key steps in this area? We don't have a second left, without having to give it to Mom, and we'll think about doing anything in the next budget. We don't have another second, not a minute! If this was done three, four years ago, it would be too late, and we're talking today about what we're going to do then and then. Dear Mr. Secretary, I personally value you as a man, but I would no longer be in this department if I were you. I'm sure you don't have to do this because you're so financially sovereign that you don't have to be in this place and listen to all this stuff. But you're here, you're in this government, and you're definitely responsible, Mr. Secretary-General. Remember what Vizjak used to say, what you said on the committee about how you would handle employment, with employees – reduction and so on. You've hired six new people. If I convert this into money, you have an additional burden on the Slovenian budget for about €180,000 a year. Instead of helping people or economies to live as economic ministers, you put extra pressure on them. That's one thing. Mr. Secretary, what did you say in your interview with the Minister of Commerce on April 4th? "The challenges of the economy are the most effective incentive." Mr. Secretary, that's what you said. That's not what I said. I know that's true, and I know it's true, and I know it's true, and I know it's true. But then, at some point under the pressure of the government, how can you completely change your way of dealing with this situation? How can you do that? I couldn't do it. Mr Minister, once again, I propose on behalf of the Slovenian economy that you withdraw and do not allow yourself to participate in this government in such a way as to pressure you to make decisions that you personally disagree with, and that is a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Your request for a debate, Mr Pojbič, will be decided tomorrow, 23 April 2014, in the framework of the votes. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u254	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen! My question concerns the Minister of the Interior, Dr Virant, in connection with the rise in many criminal acts in parking or resting places along Slovenian highways and elsewhere. More often, at least this is how we read, such crimes take place in the form of places, including car injuries and so on. Clearly, it is organised crime of individual companies or individuals. Since the victims of these places are both foreigners and Slovenian citizens, I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: Is any more effective police or other authorities already envisaged in this area in order to limit or try to limit these crimes and also to prevent, in particular, the perpetrators of these crimes from being punished and punished as soon as possible? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you. This is a very local question, I must say. This problem of criminal offences in the area of the motorway cross is, logically, increasing since Slovenia's entry into the European Union, especially since its entry into the Schengen area. Clearly, it is so much easier to move or come to Slovenian territory and organize such actions when borders are opened when people are free. Statistics show that the rise in these crimes has been particularly problematic in the last two years. If I mention a little bit of this statistics, let's say in 2009, there were 92 in 2010, 66 in 2011, 58 in 2011, and then it grew to 108 in 2012 and 154 in 2013. These are mainly thefts, large thefts, bold thefts, robbery and similar crimes against property. As soon as the police noticed this increase, they responded, mainly by increasing the presence on the highway cross. This is, in our view, the most effective measure to prevent and detect and investigate such crime – an increase in the presence, which is preventive. In 2013, an analysis of thefts and other criminal offences in the motorway cross area was also made on the basis of which individual police administrations plan to carry out regular work activities and tighter control on motorways. I must say that the investigation of these crimes has been around 50% in recent years. In particular, 44.8% of these crimes were investigated last year. The police do this especially intensively during the holidays or before holidays and before the end of the holidays, when traffic is increased especially on the Italian-Magyarka route and the Austrian-Croatia route. This increased presence on the highway cross will continue. For example, just a few days ago, police officers were able to arrest two foreign citizens who committed several bold thefts on the Krško-Koper route. They were handed over to an investigative judge who ordered both of them to be held incommunicado. It is also interesting to see statistics on the nationality of perpetrators in criminal investigations. They are mostly Romanian citizens, far ahead. For example, last year 47 – Romanian citizens, Kosovo – 7, Ukraine – 5 and so on. Romanian citizens are taking the lead in these actions. If I shorten the answer to your question, the police are very well aware that this is a major problem, it takes up one of its priority issues and increases the presence on the highway, at gas stations, resorts and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u257	Mr. Grill, would you like a refill? You don't have to. The Minister's response is sufficient. We are moving on to the next question put by Mr Tomaž Lisec to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel, who is officially absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u258	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister! At the January meeting of Minister Omerzel, I asked about the time and financial framework for the rehabilitation of cross-border crossings on state roads carried out by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. At that time, I received some general answers, but there was a clear message that the Ministry, together with the direction, would prepare rehabilitation programmes within 3 months and also find a source of funds for the rehabilitation of these facilities. Then it was promised that after these three months it would follow from 6 to 9 months of the so-called implementation phase. That was January. It's been three months and Minister Omerzel is sadly silent. No response, and I believe that if there is no response on the website to be afraid of the minister, it is probably not in practice either. So let me ask Minister Omerzel again, and I also expect an oral answer at the next meeting, because I think it is an all-Slovenian problem of state roads, which also has financial implications, because at that time the minister said that he had about 30 to 40 million financial resources, but he has one problem – that he does not know where to scratch this money or which minister would have to give up his purse so that Minister Omerzel could untie his purse and make the Slovenian bridges even more transportable. So once again, I repeat the question: What is the time and financial framework for the rehabilitation of individual projects? I said back then that I would be very pleased, and probably also the mayors, if we get a project in the lines, a timeline and a financial structure. Since I didn't get an answer at the time, today I wonder again: Does the Minister consider that it is possible for this rehabilitation project to draw European funds from the current European cohesion or from European funds for the next 2014-2020 period? Have they calculated at the Ministry, unless they have already done another, the economic damage caused by these impacts when recovery is not carried out, and what is the security aspect where this rehabilitation is not carried out? And to conclude: Whether the Minister will declare whether it is for ad hoc solutions or for long-term solutions that are probably a little more expensive, but therefore much longer and much safer for a Slovenian citizen and also [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The economy? [[...]] I expect an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u259	Thank you very much. In accordance with your request, Mr Tomaž Lisec, you will receive an oral reply from the Minister of Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Sam Omerzel at the next meeting of the National Assembly in response to questions raised by Members. Mr Robert Hrovat will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment a question. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! In Slovenia, the use of plant protection products should be regulated in a way that is mainly based on the lowest possible risk to human health and the environment. Neonicotinoids belong to a generation of newer pesticides that are particularly toxic to bees and other pollinators, such as fleas and bees alone. The beginning of the marketing of neonioctinoids coincides with the occurrence of bees disappearing in many European countries, including Slovenia. As early as May 2008, Mr Jarc, then Minister of Agriculture of the Janševa Government, had preventively banned the traffic and use of certain plant protection products. In 2009, the Minister of State of Pahor's Government, Dr. Pogačnik, your predecessor, re-authorised the use of clotinidine. There was a disaster and a mass fall of bees at my end, in Domžal, and in the surrounding area, and also in Prekmurje. You then predicted action against your predecessor, so the first question is: How did you act against Professor Milan Pogačnik when it turned out that the fall of the bee was caused by plant protection products? You later, in April 2011, temporarily banned the use of maize seed and mustard treated with active substances containing neonicotinoids. Second question: Do you think that, with this latter ban, we are safe people, the environment, and especially bees, and the plagues of years ago cannot happen again? Another third question, a key question that I also asked you: Is this moment banned in Slovenia by all neonicotinoids that have been in use a few years ago? This is very important, because we have been following in all the media lately that the state has taken care of safety and that the fall of bees in such forms as they were years ago will no longer be. So I'm asking: Are all these plant protection products that can affect the fall of bees prohibited? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member. Neonicotinoids as systemic poison – the first ban in Slovenia was in 2004. At that time, the use of potatoes for the treatment of potatoes was prohibited. In 2008, after the sea of bees in Domžal, the current minister banned the use of the treated seed as well as the use of funds for the treatment of maize seeds and oilseeds. Later, as you have rightly said, this was abolished and we witnessed a reseat, then a significantly larger one, partly in Domžal, in particular in Prekmurje and elsewhere, and we came back to a similar ban. At the time, I was challenged and initiated two types of investigation against the predecessor. The first was an expert work carried out by the then Directorate and the second was an administrative one, where we gave the task of executing administrative procedures to lift the ban. One and the other investigations were such that nothing could be reported to the predecessor. That's what I have to say. Then what did we do next? We have moved the debate to the level of the European Union and then this is our requirement to ban and re-evaluate the danger posed by neonioctinoids to bees, once again checked by the European Food Safety Authority. It was made an assessment at the level of this agency, and it is interesting that it largely confirmed what we said in Slovenia at the time. On the basis of this assessment, we have requested a complete ban on the use of this poison at European Union level. At that time, the European Union split up, but in 2011 a measure was adopted that followed our request and applied to the full use of neonicotinoids. A decision has been taken to prohibit the use of funds in flowering cultures where bees of this culture are visited and only where there is no flowering allowed. At the moment, only two active substances based on neonioctinoids are allowed in Slovenia, and both should be used only after the flowering time and in certain gardens grown in protected areas. As you know, Mr Member, we are among the strictest, and we are even the strictest in the protection of bees in individual areas. It should also be said that, according to officially available data, there were no bee sharks based on the use of neonicotinoids in 2012 and 2013. This year, too, bees have survived quite a long time, and at this point, except occasionally for some bee drop, which is happening in such a large population, we have about 150,000 hives. There are simply no signals or official findings, analyses that appear to be dealing with poisons with these toxins. I'd like to say one more thing. In Slovenia we have adopted a strategy to protect the bee. This strategy is based on the fact that we want to offer our consumer not during the time in which the substances are present in the quantities allowed, but we want to offer during which there are no harmful substances at all. We are also working in this direction, for example, to protect security, particularly where the state co-finances preventive actions. I think we're on the right track here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Request for complete response, Mr. Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you for your answer, Your Honor. But in Slovenia, according to my data, a number of bee families fell last month. This occurs in the area of Celje, Nova Gorica, Krske, several times also in the area of Ivančna Gorica, and on Friday I know that also in Grosuplje. The matter is expected to reach the police, which, according to the protocol for notification of bee drop, means that probably the veterinary inspector, who is the first to review the matter, has found that there is a possibility of using the plant protection products that you have just discussed. This excuse that the state has done its job is that the question of how farmers work, as some media have reported today, seems somewhat incorrect to me. The fact is that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is responsible and must monitor the use of plant protection products. When I took a look at what is allowed in this moment – this moment is despite everything you say, neonicotinoid, which is in use, Actara 25 WG, a systemic insecticide that works through leaves and is used on apples, pears, peaches, potatoes, tomatoes, salads and so on. Do you know what it says then? "Dangerous for human health and the environment." It's dangerous around here. Very toxic to aquatic organisms. It may cause long-term adverse effects on the aquatic environment. This drug is toxic to bees. On the one hand, we say that [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u265	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u266	Thank you. I am pleased by this debate because we are transferring this debate not only to the Slovenian Parliament but to the level of the European Union. Your Honor, allow me to describe to you what the protocol looks like in practice. When a beekeeper falls — as they call it — some call it bee slaughter — he has a number and calls his veterinarian to the National Veterinary Institute. This visit by a veterinarian — an expert, not an inspector — is important for deciding on some of its professional criteria, whether death has occurred in a bee family for some health reasons, such or other disease or strangulation, or if there is a suspicion of poisoning. If there is a suspicion of poisoning, then there comes a competent inspector who takes official samples. These official samples go on a wide range of investigations. At this point, I have no record of any such or other poisons being found. However, if I had known that this would be a question, honourable Member, I would have obtained that information. If you wish, we will send you information on what analysts of this year’s seas or bees fall have discovered. But in neonioctinoids, as I said, the vast majority are forbidden. There are only two exceptions, not only in Slovenia, but within the European Union. If there is any suspicion, this information, if you have it – we are actually stricter here than, say, neighbouring countries, and we are also acting on a precautionary principle. If we get any information that there is a suspicion that specific preparations have caused damage, we will react cautiously in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Request for a debate, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u268	Thank you very much, first of all, to the Minister and also to you, Madam Vice-President. I would suggest that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. Why? I didn't know what was going on in April either, but when I was preparing for the question of the mission, and I was preparing mainly for the topic of the ban on plant protection products, I ran into plant protection products. Although you are saying that all those who can harm bees are banned, I have discovered this actara 25 brand on our shelves and will be on our shelves by 2017. Whoever approved that this plant protection product should be on shelves, I don't know, but it would be right to have a public debate on it. To say that this is no longer in Slovenia, that we are the most restrictive – we can be, but we are not completely. As I said, when I was preparing and saw that there was a sea of bees in April in Celje, Novi Gorica, in Krk, several times in the area of Ivančna Gorica and on Thursday also in the area of Grosuplja, and that things were so far away that the police had already been informed – believe me that I looked at this protocol and I know it. But if the case comes to the police, that means someone's made a suspicion that shouldn't have happened. You have services in charge of controlling these matters, over the use of plant protection products, and I think that, given the media silence about this fall of bees in all these areas – only one medium wrote about how long and wide it is – time to discuss this and finally say that these plant protection products that are harmful to the environment, to animals, eventually also to bees, are withdrawn. In addition, the synergistic activity of neonicotinoids and fungicides has been confirmed to increase the toxic effect of neonicotinoids more than a thousand times. This is data, this is an expert study that proves it. It would be good if we really talked about this in the National Assembly and that [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Robert Hrovat, to hold a debate on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, mags. Diana Jediana, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 23 April 2014, in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the next question put by Mrs Janja Attack to the Prime Minister of the Government in her capacity as Minister of Health of Mags. Alenki Bratušek, who has been officially absent since 13 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u270	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. My question is this. The regulation of the protection of healthcare workers against ionising radiation has been unchanged for many years, if not decades. That arrangement, in particular the wide range of benefits, the shorter worker, the additional days of leave granted to individuals on the basis of exposure, has not changed, despite the known fact that radiation in relation to the development of science and consequently diagnostic equipment is not even nearly within the limits so as to have any impact on health of healthcare workers. In view of the above-mentioned President of the Government, as Minister of Health, I ask: How will you manage this area and what will be your concrete measures in the field of health workers' protection against ionising radiation? What will be the new benefits, the duration of the worker, the duration of the annual leave to be paid by healthcare professionals in the area of ionising radiation? When will the collective agreement on health and social protection activities of Slovenia be amended and when do you expect the amended provisions to enter into force? I expect from the distinguished President of the Government, in my capacity as Minister of Health, to answer the oral question raised at one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mrs. Attack. In accordance with your request, you will receive an oral reply from the President of the Government in her capacity as Minister of Health of Mags. Alenka Bratušek at the next meeting of the National Assembly in response to questions raised by Members. Mag. Ivan Vogrin will ask the Minister of Defence Mr Roman Jakič, who is absent from 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens! In 2008, the Law on the Public Sector Wage Scheme entered into force. This law has brought a lot of clever nonsense. One of these is that it brings a solution to the fact that the willingness of a public sector worker in the workplace is equal to the willingness at home. In particular, a soldier who is in a state of readiness in the military receives 80 cents an hour, similar to another public servant who is at home because of the nature of his work. The Union of Soldiers gave the law in question or the law under consideration to the Constitutional Court. And now look at the legal and social state we are. We will still be explaining in here Members, Ministers, Presidents politically that we are a rule of law. On 15 March 2012, the Constitutional Court repealed Article 42, paragraph 10, of the Public Sector Wages Act and fixed an abnormally long deadline for the legislator to comply with the requirement in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly has not been able in 2 years, no government, not the previous one, nor this one, to adopt appropriate legal solutions. We are still saying that we are a country of law. On this basis, the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia has filed a number of lawsuits that will all be received, and taxpayers will again receive higher taxes due to the government's lack of government and the lack of the National Assembly. In the previous government, Minister Virant or V.D. Minister – because if someone receives 23 votes of support, he cannot be Minister, he can only be V.D. – President of Parliament [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Now he's a minister, and we can't fix anything again. [[...]] We still claim to be a rule of law. I think it's right for us to start working, not talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I presume, Your Honor. Ivan Vogrin, Minister of Defence Roman Jakič will answer you orally at the next meeting in response to the questions raised by the Members. We are moving on to the next question put by Mr Franz Breznik to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I refer to you the question of the issue of the comprehensive supply of North-East Slovenia with drinking water. As you point out, drinking water is a limited natural resource, and in the years to come, the protection and care of drinking water will be one of mankind’s greatest problems. How serious this problem is already telling us today that one sixth of people in the world do not have access to clean water, and because of the disease caused by the lack of clean drinking water, the same number of people die annually as the number of people in Slovenia. As you are aware, we have statistics in Prekmurje and also in Slovenian Gorica that many people die from cancer due to unclean drinking water. In northeastern Slovenia, we have seen a large, rapid expansion of the system, a lack of resources, in particular the construction of materials of less quality in the past, which have been used to build water pipelines in the past, because they did not know better. So it's almost all [[Incomprehensible]] The northeast Slovenia water system is functionally and physically obsolete or inadequate. That is why we decided in 2010 to launch a special North East Slovenia drinking water supply project signed by 12 municipalities. This project was in two stages. The first stage went through the Slovenian Mountains and the second phase through the Maribor part. In Slovenski gorica is the main municipalities that have joined, including Lenart, Benedict, Cerkvenjak, Council Ana, Sveti Jurij and Council of Trojica. These are the congregations that I somehow cover as a Member, and the municipalities of Pesnica, Šentilj, Kungota and Duplek are among them. Let me say that the project was completed in the first phase last year and that all subcontractors in this project were paid by municipalities. It is also interesting that the share of co-financing for this project, the share of the Cohesion Fund was 59%, the share of funds financed directly by municipal budgets was 27%, and the state budget, in particular the Ministry of Agriculture, was 14%. Unfortunately, today, as far as I have seen at all meetings with the mayors of Slovenian Mountains, the situation is extremely bad. To this day, the state has not paid its debt. I therefore ask you, as Minister for Agriculture and Agriculture, as well as these issues: How far along are you with your engagements, and what have you achieved to this point? When will these congregations receive payment from you?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u276	Thank you, Member, for this important question for North-East Slovenia. That's exactly what you said. This is one of the more important projects, because we are talking about quality care for 37,000 people, of which 4 thousand are new. The project itself means 53 kilometers of pipelines, 3 watercourses and 8 pumps. The project, as you said, started in 2010 with a decision then issued. To this point, the project is worth just over €19 million. The share of Slovenia and the European Union is around 14 million, a few euros over. Up to this point, the state has reimbursed 34.3% of the money. The situation on the project is as follows. Contracts with contractors have been concluded. It's the municipalities that are the bearers of the investment. The co-financing contracts shall be concluded all but from the third call for works. In this project, I think it was unfortunate that they went, if I recall correctly, even two contractors to bankruptcy and then transferred from an annex to the following. The construction itself should have been completed in May 2013, but then extended. The deadline for the adoption of all acts is 30. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in I'd like to say the following at this point. The money for this project is provided, and as soon as it is possible to refund, the refund will also be paid. A review of the implementation of the project under the implementing and co-financing contracts is being prepared and complemented. This is communication between the beneficiary and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. I said that these Annexes require an extension of the decision. There's no problem here. An error of EUR 200 000 is corrected. Dear Member, I can assure you that the Ministry's services will do their utmost to bring what is necessary into line with the congregation and that this money will be reimbursed because the money is actually available and that the municipalities will get it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Breznik, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I can give you a few more questions. The project was run by a municipality in Lenart. An hour ago, I spoke to the mayor, and to this day, not a single situation has been paid by you in your mandate, when you're a minister of agriculture, no situation has been paid. Because you did nothing, the municipalities had to rent short-term loans at strange interest rates. And I was wondering, when is this going to be over? They also had major problems with the custodian of the contract himself, who could not explain it to them. Now I've got information that he's been replaced or that you've replaced him. The situation is unsustainable. First, the congregations are in charge. They were now in additional debt because you did not make a contract as a country and no situation on this project was paid for in your mandate. The municipalities with very small budgets, 2, 3 million — for example, Lenart has 8 million — were able to rent short-term loans so that they could repay all of this. Therefore, somehow I urge you to do everything in this direction and that this lack of commitment in this area, especially in the northeastern Slovenia – you need to know that in this project there is also the municipality of Gornja Radgon and so on – to do everything you can to resolve this matter, because it is currently extremely bad. If you have information, please answer this second part of the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u280	Thank you, Commissioner, for the opportunity to say one more thing. As I have made very clear, errors have been identified for 200 000 euros, and I believe that everyone in my office will insist that everything that is done is legal and legitimate. We have too much experience within Slovenia, and also outside, that if we try to make shortcuts and the legality and legitimacy are disregarded, we are always recovered in the end. So in this case, as I said, money is available. This is one of the projects where irregularities need to be addressed. Once they've been removed, it'll also be refused. That someone gets the money and the irregularities don't go away – and that's not the way it's gonna go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u281	Thank you very much. A request for a debate, I suppose. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u282	I would like to hold a debate on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the situation is not as rosy as the Minister says, especially because the Ministry currently owes these municipalities EUR 5 million. I believe that some situation may not have been clear, but all the other situations could be covered. I think that it is in these times of crisis that the state should first prove and demonstrate its readiness, its capacity to pay. I think the taxpayers have somehow proven it in recent months through taxes when you filled the banking system when you filled the budget through borrowing abroad. I think at least the municipalities like those minimum investors in these projects could somehow be helped. For 200 000 euros, as you say is a bad situation, you have retained more than EUR 5 million of funds to these small municipalities. It's catastrophic. It's unsustainable. This should not happen in this case. Finally, we find that the custodian of the contract was the one who was very careless in his work. You've been a minister for a year and a year you could – you've got a whole series of calls, and so far nothing has happened. I would therefore like to ask the Vice-President, under the Rules of Procedure, to deal with the issue of the comprehensive supply of North-East Slovenia with drinking water, one broad debate, because I believe that it could be resolved not only in northeastern Slovenia, but in a large part of northeastern Slovenia, where a whole range of projects financed from cohesion funds are currently under way and are not receiving funding. However, the question is also raised – I think we have one meeting – where the cohesion funds or part of the resources that should be reserved in the state budget are in order to maximize the use of cohesion funds mainly from the period 2007-2014, from the period in which the project was also in North-East Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Franz Breznik, will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow,23. in April 2014, in the context of the votes cast. We are moving on to the next question, which will also be mags to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. Mr. Borut Ambrožich has set up the city of Dian Jidan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u284	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the ministers and others present! Allow me to start by reading the dictates of the question, and I'll explain a little more later. I ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment: Is your department aware of the problem of the sudden decline of grass birds in Slovenia, which are among the most endangered species? Is the Ministry aware of the policy of the European Union to encourage birds to be able to manage grasslands in a friendly manner, which the European Union offers to small farmers for the purposes of conservation of nature? In support of this issue, a few more facts remain. Travnik habitats and grass species of birds are among the most endangered, as I have already pointed out in the question itself. Despite being protected by the Birds Directive, many people in Europe and, as a result, in Slovenia are rapidly falling. Recently, official complaints to the European Commission have also been made by Slovenian and German BirdLife Partner, a more famous Slovenian bird watch and study society, which notes that in Slovenia grassland bird species such as moss, Polish scrantz and large snags have fallen dramatically. However, it is of particular concern that they consider that they are also falling in the Natura 2000 area, which is intended to maintain these birds. The company also notes that there are intensive negotiations at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment on the allocation of more than 100 million agri-environment resources for the period 2014-2020, and they are interested in: Does the Ministry intend to invite representatives of small farmers, as well as interested representatives of NGOs, to these negotiating points? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u286	Thank you, honourable Member, for this matter, which is up to date. I'd like to inform you of the following. So far, the Slovenian Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, through a rural development programme, has tried to help with the conservation of endangered birds through two measures, which you have found to be insufficient. The fact is, we need to know that in Slovenia, unlike the rest of the countries, the relationship between soil and grass is upside down. If they have a different 1:2 and they have more fields, we have 2:1, we have more grass. The fact is that the measures so far were voluntary, and because they were voluntary, they were obviously not sufficiently current, so the demand for entry into these measures was too small. But for the next period, things are clearer. The first fact is that, as a country, we owe from a billion 100, as much as a rural development programme, 30% of the money for environmental and climate action, and this is also done. The second fact is that after more than one year of debate in Slovenia, not only farmers and farmers but also representatives of NGOs, including those who protect individual habitats, were involved in this debate. And the third fact that helped us write a draft rural development programme already in Brussels is that this is the first time that the Ministry of Agriculture no longer exists. There is a so-called Ministry of Natural Resources or Technical Affairs for Agriculture and the Environment, which is also an integral part of the Environment Directorate, including the Department of Protection, and this is also seen in actions that are more environmentally oriented than previously. It is also important that in the rural development programme, operational, implementing documents that will be produced by the end of the year are now operationally included in those interested in maintaining habitats, which is because there is not enough resources within the rural development programme. For the operational programmes themselves, leverage is also required. We will be working these levers for the next few months, and everyone interested in maintaining endangered birds is invited to participate actively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u288	Not even a compliment, but a thank you for a very comprehensive reply and also a public invitation to all interested parties. Finally, I would like to add that despite the fact that it is at the forefront of the crisis that we are experiencing or surviving, man, we must never forget that without the preservation of the chain of organisms that we are living with in the natural environment, we are often forgetting this, even in the long term or in the medium term, there would be no longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u290	Allow me, Madam President and Mr Member, to share further information with which I will only confirm what you have said. The climate is changing and the climate is changing. There is also damage at European Union level at the moment, according to the European Commission's assessment, between €80 and €90 billion, and within this impact are individual habitats. So it is also entirely your thought that in the next 7-year period, because climate change is here, significantly more activity, which means resources including money, should be directed to the area to protect our habitats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mag. Stefan Tisell will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u292	Good bye to all of you! Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, Minister, Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I have a question for the Minister concerning material assistance to those at risk in Slovenia. Looking at Eurostat data, 18.5% of the risk of poverty or social exclusion in Slovenia in 2008 and 19.3% in 2011. If we look at how many recipients of social assistance were in 2006 when the 2006-2013 perspective started from the European Union's funds for the social risk of food – 180 000 recipients and in 2012 it was already 259 000. In Slovenia these food products are mainly shared by the Red Cross and Karitas, about half. If we look at the annual Red Cross report for last year, there were about 2,000 tons of distributed food, half of which was milk, and the rest were flour, pasta, wheat, oil and rice. The recipients were 156 grand. Now there is a new perspective for the period 2014-2020. The last division was last month, and the Operational Programme for Material Assistance to the Most Hazardous for the period 2014 to 2020, which is beautifully written in the public debate and will not take effect until a few months from now. I'd like to know, Madam Secretary: What do you plan to do to avoid excessive time delay in the supply of food products to the most socially endangered in Slovenia? We know that there are many unemployed, many elderly people with poor pensions and the like, so these people have just gotten used to these food items and regularly go to the Red Cross and Karitas. On Saturday we saw you on the show on POP TV, in which you have said some things about this topic. However, I am interested in the fact that the matter is very topical, and I am interested in all of our residents who are constantly walking – I myself have been working for almost 30 years, helping on the Red Cross, so I am also a little more familiar with these needs. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u294	Mr. Tessel, thank you for asking. I'd be happy to explain. Before I tell you what we're going to do today, a really brief outline of history to see how this action has been implemented, what story it has behind it. From 1987 to 2013, the food aid measure was part of the common agricultural policy. It was agreed to share food surpluses. In recent years these surpluses have ceased to exist and Germany has brought a dispute before the European Court of Justice. The European Court found that the measure did not comply with EU law. In 2010, 2011, I was then acting as Secretary of State, and we did everything, including Slovenia as a country, with the help of the then Minister of Agriculture, Mr Židan, in another mandate, in another government, that Slovenia was the country leading between Member States to maintain this form of aid. It was just at a time when we were preparing the EU 2020 strategy, which, for the first time at European Union level, said that this Europe, our joint creation, if I say so, would also have the goal of reducing the number of poor. At that time, we transferred from the agricultural field to the initiative of Slovenia, which France joined, and we were stronger together with France, that we also considered this at our home ministerial council, the Council of Ministers for Social Affairs, and our home council at the level of the European Union supported it. Then it was a negotiation of what would happen, and we agreed not to stop it, but to put it into a new financial perspective. Then, in the new financial perspective, from today to 2020, the Fund for European Aid to the Most Hazardous was agreed at European level. Together, it is 3.5 billion in a 7-year period, and within it Slovenia has a better position than it used to have. During the 20-year period, we have about 20 million European funds plus 15% of our co-financing – 24 million. We were aware and knew last year that this hole would come in this time period because one financial perspective is running out and the foundations are yet to be formed. The month ago was only the last legal basis for the creation of this fund at European level. We have then taken immediate action to develop an operational programme that is the basis for pumping and must also be coordinated with the European Commission. However, we wanted to have a discussion with the contractors, which is not only the Red Cross and Karitas, but also the Alliance of Friends of Youth parts, and we wanted to have a discussion with these operators, what exactly we will do, because this measure is now not only a food aid, but we can share other goods that are needed materially at risk, and in particular to give them a package of assistance, psychosocial, activation, to empower them. In view of all that is happening, it has been agreed that for the first two years we will continue to concentrate in food, but let us leave room to change the measure itself. We'll do as fast as we can. According to information from the Red Cross — we talked to them on Saturday at the edge of this show — they have the maximum stock until June. They were saving up because they knew what was going to happen. It is also interesting to point out at this point that two-thirds of the food distributed by the Red Cross and Karitas is divided by the state on the basis of the means that, indirectly, if I may say so, the state divides. So it is mainly about providing this food aid provided indirectly by the State. Then we'll be in June – we're working on it. This operational programme is expected to be in government on Thursday, if all is well so that the invitation to tender is in April. We'll speed it up as fast as we can and we'll make it as fast as we can. If the crisis does not work, we will also talk about intermediate solutions, but we will really try to make time to get this help to people as quickly as possible because it is not easy to provide funds for everything else in the budget. But we're going to do our best.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mag. Tissel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u296	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. You've listed a few of these. However, you have not yet come to the point where there will be some progress at this time, as this operational programme states that there will be a call for the participation of organisations. But we do know that the Red Cross and the Caritas have a network of volunteers who are already working on it, and they know people on the ground. I would also like to ask you whether you intend to continue with these two organizations because the Alliance of Youth Friends cares more about children, for those who are also a very vulnerable group. However, it also states that the requirement is that such an organisation has a network throughout Slovenia, that they are volunteers and that the matter is recorded, monitored and so on. The same is true because the country also contributes this 15%. Perhaps, however, we could make something available for this time, perhaps from state reserves, as regards milk, flour, and the like, so that it would be available after June, because we know that some have somehow gotten used to it. It is true that the Red Cross and Karitas did little to save that they did not immediately divide everything, but people are used to it, so I would really like to ask that something should have been made early in the summer so that we could distribute it across the network across Slovenia in order to get this much-needed food. But I know there are other articles, but I think food is the most important thing. As for the rest of the articles, it's behind what's to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u298	Thank you. I certainly didn't want it to appear implicitly like we were shutting anyone out. During the period since 2006, the Red Cross and Karitas developed their network of warehouses, with 8 000 volunteers in the rear. So absolutely not, but the invitation will be such that, under those rules, the one who will apply will also receive it. But the conditions are clear. I only mentioned the Alliance of Youth Friends because it also distributes food packages mainly on a donor basis, and if it fulfils the conditions, it will be able to apply for this open invitation. But that certainly doesn't mean less for Karitas or the Red Cross. I think I am clear enough - perhaps even more clearly I can say that I am aware of the problem, that we will first do everything we can to speed up all of these procedures, which are linked to the possibility of drawing on European funds to make this happen as quickly as possible. If there really is a drastic delay in time, we will be looking for other options, but unfortunately there is no equal opportunity in the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for these funds. With reallocations, too, we have mainly social transfers where it is not, so a government-level agreement is needed on how we will resolve this. However, it is my duty to carry out all procedures, to make this happen as quickly as possible and to ensure, above all, that European food assistance reaches our operators and, in particular, our people in the shortest possible time. If not, we'll make other moves. But I'm aware of the significance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u299	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary, and thank you, Mag. I'll ask you a question. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mags a question. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers and the ministers! Slovenia is a watery country enough for any household to have healthy drinking water. So far, all of this has been left to the congregations. Each congregation provided drinking water to its inhabitants. Some congregations have merged or former communes of the former congregations have organized water supply, and this is still functioning in many ways. After the formation of the larger congregations, each congregation specifically regulated this. It falls in Slovenia from 800 litres per square meter to over a thousand litres of precipitation each year, so that all inhabitants in Slovenia can be supplied with healthy drinking water. However, we have this accident that two-thirds of Slovenia is a karst area where water goes quickly to the groundwater, where water from the groundwater is usually water-contesting and needs to be prepared for drinking water. There is also a problem in one third of that area because groundwater is already contaminated with pesticides and nitrates, so that any groundwater is not good. We have enough expertise in Slovenia. There are sufficient test wells and also made analyses to ensure that water capacity is sufficient. However, there is no one who could link this together, and this could be supplied to the whole country with healthy drinking water. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What will you do because you yourself have declared that water supply is your priority in the field of the environment? I'll give you the right one. I'm also aware of what it means. As mayor, I have also spent a lot of energy getting good drinking water in the congregations, but so far we have not brought it into every household, but into the majority. I think it would be necessary for the Ministry to take a deep look at the supply of drinking water, in order to be aware of what this means for human health. We have a lot of professions that are somehow unrelated, we have congregations that work each by themselves, and I think the ministry should also somehow gather this expertise, make a group that would make some strategic plan, how to supply healthy drinking water in the coming years, and take advantage of all the resources available.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u301	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u302	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lah, I think you have asked the most important question in the National Assembly today. Water is more important than all finance and more than anything else. The fate of Slovenia and many other countries will depend on water. Allow me to begin – you know this, but let me do it anyway. Since 1 April, the Directorate for Water and Investment has been operating at the Ministry. This isn't some new job. There are no more Directorates than there have been so far, but we have redesigned the current Directorate responsible for investment and cohesion in such a way that we have given all the expertise gathered at the Ministry within the Directorate, which will be hierarchically managed, so that we will have experts who will work together and will be able to make more money for the country, and this is only the first step, as you have said. In the last 23 years of the independent state, we cannot boast that our leadership, although we have phenomenal individuals, has progressed because it has been broken. At the moment, we have 88.6% of the population in the country, who are assured that quality drinking water comes to them in the medium and long term. Missing 6, 7%. 100 percent won't, because they have 50 people's smaller settlements, separate wells, and so on. But we still have to do that seven percent. It is important that, at this point, an operational programme follows the following objectives: protection of drinking water coverage, monitoring of groundwater quality, reduction of water losses in public water lines – we still have water systems where 40 % is lost, although, according to some European standards, all that is above 3 or 4 % is already an alarm – providing emergency coverage for drinking water and some other standards. None of this can be done with nice words, but only with very large financial contributions. If the finances are available, we can preserve the water as a public good, which is our common goal. In the current ongoing cohesion, cohesion 2007-2013, which is now extended to N+2, in some cases to N+3, is currently under construction – some smaller ones have already been built – 16 more or less major water systems. The total investment value is slightly less than 400 million and the value of European co-financing is around 320 million euros. There are now 11 projects in stock. That's not all that's needed. At this point, we have 11 projects that, as experts say, are "ready to go", these are projects that are ready to be implemented. In the current financial perspective, however, the money available has already been overspent. An extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment will also be held tomorrow, where we will look together for a solution. This is the solution to how to ensure a rational transition of the interim period, which is likely to take 6 months. We expect a partnership agreement and an operational programme to be signed somewhere in the middle of the year. At that time, new decisions for these 11 and some other projects that are not in there will be available. However, some municipalities are also in the investment phase, and this will be discussed tomorrow. We must be aware that the money available from the old perspective is only 545 million European money. The former government, having seen that certain decisions would not be enforceable but impossible to withdraw, allowed for an additional spending of almost 200 million euros and generated spending rights of almost 750 million euros per money, which is 545 million. This is because all projects will not be implemented and some will be allowed to extend over the period 2014-2020. At the moment, the old cohesion of these 545 million is no longer free of funds. There are even burdens, workloads, and at this point we are monitoring individual projects. We are trying to move these projects, some to the next financial perspective, in which, to a large extent or at least, as far as the environment is concerned, the emphasis on drinking water that our people need to provide. But we'll all be looking together tomorrow, and we're already looking. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] a mechanism to provide some security to the municipalities for these 6 months. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Lah, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u304	Thank you for that answer. I completely disagree with you, and I myself have been dealing with this issue for a few months because from where I come from, we constantly say that something has to be done. I come from Dolenjska, where we have 2 major projects: hydraulic improvements of central Dolenjska and dry-land water supply. Here I have before me a report on what happened between 2007 and 2014 with one such water supply that supplies 60,000 people – a complete Novi Mesto and 4 other municipalities. It has two water sources of 160 litres and 75 litres, where the water is cloudy in every rain and must be cooked. They cook water every year for over 50 days. Water, if not cooked, cannot be used for fruit or salad washing. Everything has to be cooked. Although the disturbance occurs for 150 days, the minor disturbance is not so dangerous. 150 days a year, cooking, 60,000 inhabitants – do you know what the cost is? Such water is harmful to health. The project took place from 2007 to today. The 7th version of the application was confirmed at the end of 2013 and was also confirmed at the MGTR and at the end of the 7th. 4. gets an answer that [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] it is necessary to re-check it. [[...]] The second is the dry-land water supply, where the loss is more than 50%. These are both water pipes that are urgently in need of this money or this one. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u305	Here you go, Minister Mag. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u306	Your Honour, I agree with you. Both projects are urgently needed, as are all other 11 plus 7. That's 18 projects. But the fact is the following, honourable Member. The former government, the government in which you were part of the coalition, approved additional spending of €182 million. Reasonably, I fully support it. If those additional approvals were not available, environmental cohesion would not be resolved. But there were no projects for 182 million, but there were projects for half a billion. I believe that the majority, perhaps even each of these projects, is of vital importance, and therefore it is not a question of whether these projects are important or not. Both the projects you mentioned and everyone else are, by their logic, a whole part of the new cohesion 2014-2020, but it is correct that projects have their financial resources. The old perspective has come to an end, it's overloaded, so we'll try some projects at least when the duality is where it's even possible and meaningful – because 545 is 545 and it can't be 600, 700 or billion. These projects that they received – and I was informed that 11 projects were returned to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, although technically and by permission they corresponded to everything, but the managing authority correctly identified them. There's as much money as there is. These projects must draw money from a new perspective, which is not disputed. What we have been looking for together for a long time is how this fear of the congregations — the fears of these six months of the transitional period — is to banish them from knowing that the money is waiting for them. But this is money from a new financial perspective, where it is possible to make a decision only when a partnership agreement and an operational programme are adopted. I believe that one and the other will be done this year, but I am aware, and here too, Mr Member, I would ask you to understand – overcommitment, the right of additional spending was properly declared at the time of your government for 182 million euros, and half a billion projects have come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Zvonko Lah, a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u308	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose voting on the debate to be held by this Parliament on this very important issue. Mr. Minister, I hope you come to the board meeting tomorrow so we can really try to find the best options together. I am convinced, as far as I have reviewed the projects, including from this OP ROPI operational programme and other programmes, that all these projects will be very difficult to implement, given that they have not been given decisions in 2013. A 30-million-dollar municipal infrastructure project will be difficult to implement. That's why you didn't get the mayor's approval, the mayor's statement that these projects would be completed by the end of 2015. It is clear that if the project is not completed by October 2015, that the municipality will only be able to complete in 2016 with its money, and if the municipality does not finish in 2016, this European money will have to be repaid with interest. I am sure that Damokle’s sword will hang over some congregations and that they will also be able to bankrupt because they will not have their own resources in 2016. If, at your Ministry, the intermediate body responsible for these projects – we have heard that the government service is solely responsible for the refund of European funds – found out which projects and with some responsibility, the authority reached an agreement with these municipalities to go into phase and that part of these projects is transferred to a new financial perspective, in which we are already, only there is no operational programme and partnership agreement, as you said, it would be much easier for them to complete these projects in peace. However, these funds that would have been transferred could have started these major projects now that the operators have been selected, when operators pay bank guarantees, because in the first few months when the construction site is transferred or transferred to the contractor and when the construction site is equipped, there is no financial expenditure. Few resources would be needed until the State can conclude a partnership agreement and arrange for the European Community to draw on these funds. I am sure that this is true, but some effort is required, and I think this would come out because otherwise it may be possible that municipalities that will not finish the projects will be reimbursed and, on the other hand, the funds from this financial perspective will not be spent. I hope that there will be such a solution on the committee tomorrow so that these projects can start sooner than in half a year.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Your proposal for a debate, Mr Zvonko Lah, will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 23 April 2014, in the framework of the votes. I thank both for the questions and for the answers of ministers and ministers. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The first question will be posed by the Magi. Majda Purity to Justice Minister Shadow Plitschani.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u310	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister, Honourable Minister, Member of Parliament and Member of Parliament! I think 25 years is a long enough time for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to have a complaint mechanism. This is the last of the fundamental human rights instruments that does not yet have such a mechanism. This was finally acknowledged by Slovenia by the fact that it was in the circle of those countries that were most deserving of the adoption of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the reporting of infringements. This happened in December 2011. With the 10th signature, the 10th ratification shall take effect this month. Dear Minister, I think that, as Slovakia, Austria, Germany, Chile, Maldives, Thailand, Uruguay - these are the countries that have prepared this election protocol – the General Assembly of the United Nations can adopt this protocol. The Protocol, as stated, provides for the possibility for children or their legal representatives to appeal to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child on violations of the provisions of the Convention and violations of the first two optional protocols. As Slovenia signed this Protocol in February 2012 and despite the fact that it played a leading role in its creation, it has not yet ratified it, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities are committed to the ratification as soon as possible, I am interested in: Why are there reservations on the side of the Justice Department? What are these reservations that prevent ratification of the third selection protocol? To put it simply, this protocol provides the possibility that, when all the means for the protection of children's rights are exhausted in Slovenia, with a complaint to this special working body of the United Nations is given [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] And it is also right that children or their legal representatives have this option. [[...]] Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Senko Plitchanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u312	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons! The Ministry of Justice fully supports the ratification of the Third Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. What we want is what is the content of this Protocol to be aligned with the already in force Slovenian legal order. We simply want this news brought by this Protocol to be consistent with the other law in force in Slovenia. For example, as a concrete example, as an illustration of some of the innovations introduced by this Protocol and some of the dilemmas of how to combine this with the applicable Slovenian law, I refer to the example of the so-called friendly settlement procedure provided for in Article 9 of this Protocol. What my co-workers at the Ministry are doing is how this institution of friendly settlement, which otherwise does not know Slovenian law in the form envisaged by this Protocol, can be incorporated into Slovenian law. I could say that it is a normal procedure for cross-cutting coordination, as in many other cases, when it comes to regulations that arise in Slovenia, in this case coordination with a colleague and the Minister of Labour, family and equal opportunities. So I am sure that when this coordination process is completed, the objective I have mentioned is to incorporate the content of this Protocol into Slovenian law, so that it will be consistent so that it will not be thrown out of Slovenian law, as is often the case in international treaties. I've had quite a few experiences. I can give you a concrete example, say the Aarhus Convention - I don't know if you know it, probably - which has significantly increased public participation in environmental procedures, but ratification itself was just a formal act. This Convention could not be applied directly until it was incorporated into Slovenian law, in this particular case by incorporation into the Environmental Protection Act. The international treaties are often such that some effort must be made to make this content positive, as in this case, in fact, it takes place in reality and in practice, which we are all probably taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, it is not possible to object to you, but it is strange that the Slovenian representatives were very active in making this happen. In Slovenia, after all, we have good experience with the programme for the protection of children's rights. The family code also brought some news, but unfortunately he was rejected at the referendum. But what is particularly disturbing to me in this matter is that it is already another protocol or other such international obligation that Slovenia could ratify. I'm also referring to the Istanbul protocol. We always have problems everywhere, and this is both related to violence, because even if we are talking about violence against women, the child is indirectly or actually involved, in most cases. I think a number of questions have been raised with regard to the Istanbul Convention, but let me remind you that in Slovenia Mrs Marta Santos Pais, Special Representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations Organization for the Problem of Violence against Children, was visiting Slovenia, and she encouraged us to ratify the Optional Protocol in the framework of the 24th Children's Parliament. I see some internal disharmony, and it's always possible to run into reservations at the Ministry of Justice. What I would like is for us to respect the agreements, because the Ministry of Justice has also adopted a time-table on the Istanbul document and has committed itself to doing so by January of this year. Interdepartmental coordination is expected to be over this month, but I do not know, so I ask you now in this supplementary question: When can we expect in the National Assembly a proposal for a law on the ratification of this optional protocol, the third optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child? We've heard about the importance of water before, and I would say that we often talk about children being our greatest wealth. Then let us also protect them properly. I know that the problem with us is that we have not, for example, tried the prohibitions of any punishment of children, physical punishment, or any other kind of violence. That's the problem. Thank you for that part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Lulcanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u316	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honourable Members and Members of Parliament, in particular Mrs Potrate. Let's get this straight. As Minister, I absolutely and 100 percent support all the regulations, all the legal acts, the international acts, any which act in any way in the direction of protection on the one hand of women, on the other hand, and also on the other hand all those who are in one way or another deprived. But certainly these two categories, so there is no doubt about it. Once again, I stress what I have already said. Despite the excellent intentions we can have in some international treaties, the content of these international treaties must be made effective in practice. That's what we want, and that's why treaties, protocols, annexes and so on are adopted. From my previous experience before I went into politics, but you know that I am a lawyer and that I have done a lot with this, it is a big problem when international treaties simply do not have sufficiently defined standards. And they can't have them either, because the idea is that the countries that ratify them then incorporate it into their law, which can be very different. These legal order may differ. Each country must incorporate this in such a way as to capture the content of an international treaty and at the same time be consistent with the law in force in another country. Everything with the aim of making the content of an international treaty come to life in practice, even when it comes to such important subjects as the protection of women and children. So as a minister, I absolutely support it. I must say that, while it is true that often, because my fellow workers are very precise on this issue that I have mentioned, the content of an international treaty is transferred to Slovenian law so that it actually works later in practice, it stops because the co-workers really want to achieve this goal and do not give up until it is achieved. I hope we all agree that this is the only right thing to do. If it is not possible to implement it in practice, what will help us in the international treaty? We could have ratified it six months ago and in practice no effect, because it could not be because it could not be implemented. So the only reason for this slightly longer time delay – this can be believed, I assure you that there is nothing else behind it than that it really wants to achieve what I have already repeated several times, and this is the effect of some content, in this particular case of children's rights, in practice. I can ensure that this law on the ratification of this Protocol is prepared as soon as possible, in accordance with all those with whom it needs to be coordinated. I can't tell you the date, but I'll make sure it's quick. Let me just say that I got it myself with Mrs. Santos and that we were very successful. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u317	Thank you very much. We turn to the next question put by Mrs Romana Tomc to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology to Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u318	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, today we ask you one thing and the same thing in all the questions sent, but they are obviously so relevant that there are several legitimate questions on this subject. My question went in the direction of the business environment of Slovenian companies. On the one hand, we listen to representatives of the economy when they continue to complain that the business environment is unstable, that it is uncompetitive, that they are constantly burdened with new and new taxes and that they cannot thus create new jobs. On the other hand, we listen to representatives of the Government, especially by commending the President of the Government that there were quite a few measures during his reign that helped to make the business environment better in Slovenia than it was or that it was relatively good. Among these various informations, we do not know which is the right one – the one that the economists keep repeating or the one that the President of the Government or Government is trying to present to us. So my question is: What were those measures that, before you became a minister, the government as a whole established in the Slovenian business area and which were positive on one hand, and how positively, had an impact on the economy, and on the other, what were those measures that had a negative impact on the economy? I also ask you, although I am aware that this is very difficult: What are the measurable effects of these measures? In fact, if the Government has written down in its reform programme that within two years it will create an environment that will bring 70,000 new jobs, then I expect an answer in this direction that you know how these measures are measured in the number of new or closed jobs. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister Dragoña.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, Members and Members of Parliament, Comrade Minister! First things first. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, together with the other ministries, shall develop policies and measures to promote the business environment. The IGRT, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has prepared a Single Document to ensure a better regulatory and business environment and to enhance the competitiveness adopted by 3. Ten. 2013 This document makes sense for the first time in a uniform form of measures in 16 areas. Our aim is to create a better environment, to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Slovenia is one of the three countries at EU level that have made the most progress in implementing measures to simplify the business environment over the last five years. However, the measures must be examined in terms of both the economy and the end-user. The single document gives some answers to the ambition to increase competitiveness. Some of these measures are well implemented and implementation will still need to be improved in large part. In order to increase foreign direct investment, the Ministry has prepared a single entry point for investors where they can find information on free business zones and other general information on the conduct of economic activity in Slovenia. A single website has been set up to remove administrative barriers, together with the Ministry of the Interior, through which interested domestic economic operators and investors can get answers to a number of questions. The competitiveness programme and development support measures are being implemented for high unemployment areas, the so-called problem areas. In 2013, programmes were implemented in the areas of Pomurje, Pokolpja and Posoča. In addition, two programmes were adopted last year for Maribor and for the wider area of the municipalities of Rateče, Hrastnik and Trbovlje. In the past year, the government has put in place the necessary measures to dissipate the economy. This has already been discussed by the National Assembly in the Committee on the Economy. Under the regulation on regulated turnover, the Ministry reduced the number of regulations and significantly facilitated the entry of entrepreneurs. The business environment also includes a tax environment where a number of incentives and incentives have been introduced to increase employment with particular emphasis on young and hard-working people and with emphasis on employment for an indefinite period of time. Tax reliefs for research and development and investment have been reintroduced. What are the effects? I believe that the main emphasis on the effects is that the value added in Slovenia from EUR 12 000 913 per employee, as was the case in 2006, increased to EUR 26 917 per employee at the end of 2012. According to this indicator, I believe that the efficiency of the business environment has increased, not only in the last year, but also in the last year, such a question as yours. The data we are expecting right now for 2013 will be able to provide a more detailed response to the impact of these measures within the mandate of the existing government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Complementary response, Mrs. Tomc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to ask for a supplement to the response, and above all I would like to comment on the effectiveness of the measures implemented by the Government in the past year. Minister, you are an economist, and this is a good economist, and I would ask you as such: What would be important to you as an economist if you decided to invest in a foreign country — that this country has a number of calls, subsidies and aid for new investments from abroad or that it has a properly regulated and stable business environment? I think there is a dilemma here that there is no dilemma and that it is only a rhetorical question. In one of the previous questions sent, you pointed out in your answer to the question that there is a major problem in Slovenia, that the costs are labour. On the other hand, your ministerial colleagues are reforming the labour market, if we can call it that, in order to equalise labour costs, but not by lowering some who are already too tall, but by increasing those who are not yet high enough. The banking system, which was repaired by the government as a whole or by the Minister of Finance, is not operational. Interest rates for the Slovenian economy are still about 1 or 2 percentage points higher than interest rates in foreign banks, abroad, despite the recapitalisation of banks. One is measures on paper and the other is measures that actually work in practice. So once again, I ask you: According to figures on the number of jobs, how many were based on [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u323	Thank you. The Minister shall have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Measures taken, effect or give effects in different time horizons, some on short notice, some on longer term. On this point, in Parliament, as I said, we have put in place measures to dissipate the economy. We do not claim to have started operating immediately for the rehabilitation of the banking system, but we have said that they are expected to operate within 6 months and in the perspective of up to one year. As far as employment is concerned, the positive effects are not yet visible, except for those categories I mentioned. As regards the business environment and the decisions of business operators, whether domestic or foreign, to expand their activity in the Slovenian business environment, international competitiveness is measured on the competitiveness scales that are known. There is a World Bank "world competitiveness" scale, where Slovenia thinks it is 16th. There is a scale that is also quite renowned, IMD Lausanne, where Slovenia is in a lower place, under 40th place, and contains a whole range of indicators. With the World Bank, there are a few fewer, but with the IMD, I think that these indicators are about 30. So I think that the most objectively measurable goal would be exactly how Slovenia will move up and down on these scales. At the time of the term of office, I also stressed that my goal is to improve Slovenia's position for three positions on the IMD in Lausanne within one year. I think that would be an internationally quite objective indicator. I'm sure we know where the painful spots are, what you mentioned. Access to funding sources and the competitiveness of credit funds are those that were the lowest rated criteria at the last point, while others were relatively good. We need to work primarily to correct those who drag Slovenia down most. It is clear that various business entities will always have their specific problems to raise. Even on an individual level, any business entity that is a serious investor must be actively engaged and also implemented through support [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u325	Thank you. This concludes the question. We are moving on to the next question that will be posed by the Magi. Andrey Shircelj to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Urosh Choufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am truly sorry that today there is no Minister Chufer among us, especially because I am asking him a question about the further recapitalisation of one of the Slovenian banks and the further connection of this bank with another bank. I'm talking about a cell bank on the one hand, and on the other hand, I'm talking about Abanka. In other words, what this recapitalisation means when we have already recapitalised banks for 3.6 billion. There's a bank robbery going on, so we know two kinds of bank robbery. One bank robbery is for criminals to come to the bank, pull a gun and say, "Hands up and no one to write!" And they're robbing banks. Another bank robbery is much more sophisticated, such that a bank hole has to be created first, and then in a way that fills this bank hole with tax money, this bank is recapitalised. In Slovenia we have recapitalised several state banks. We have spent 3.6 billion taxpayers' money for this, and now we will continue with the Celje Bank. The entire bank will be recapitalised by the state with 160 million. She'll put her in touch with Abanka later. There's probably going to be an extra cost here, and bank support will continue. Since we will use taxpayers' money that the government of Alenka Bratušek derives mainly from higher taxes, a less competitive economy and under poor conditions for the economy, this money, the taxpayers' money, will be poured into banks. And in that other sophisticated way, the bank robbery will continue by not knowing what we will do with the New Ljubljana Bank today, not what we will do with the New Maribor Credit Bank, not what we will do with the Celje Bank, which will also be the state bank, not what we will do with the Bank and so on – no strategy in banking! The bank robbery, however, continues in the most sophisticated way with the help of a bank hole, on the basis of which certain individuals have also obtained a lot of money through non-refundable loans. And here I'm wondering: Until when will the bank robbery continue without the bank robbery with the revolvers in the bank, but in a sophisticated way, and what is the privatisation programme for these banks, so that the banks get a real owner who is not a state to start a different management and management, so that taxpayers, citizens and citizens will not pay higher taxes and pay bank taxes at all?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u327	Thank you. Mag. Sircelj, since Dr. Uroš Choufer's Minister of Finance is absent from 2.30 p.m., do you insist on an oral response? Okay. So only because of the magnetogram, Mr Šircelj, can you also make this statement to insist on an oral response. Is it not working? Please. Just a minute. One minute to wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u328	Thank you, President. I apologize for this delay and request or expect the oral response of Minister Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u329	Thank you. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly and we will move on to the next question. Ms Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u330	Thank you so much for saying that. A while ago, in the Epilog show, we saw a contribution on illegality, illegality and abandonment of the duty and non-conformity of you as ministers, as well as Director of the Directorate for Disabled Persons, Mrs Dragica Bac, regarding the illegal issue of decisions for a company of the Crater Group, i.e. the disabled company Crater. It's an entrepreneur named Martin Go away who owns this company. He established disability companies, many of them, and he also received funds from the State in this account. It is said that employees also turned to the Ministry, and the country has been repeatedly warned to relocate them from one company to another and then send the companies to bankruptcy. These warnings should not be answered or responded to by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs or the same option. I want to know: How many disabled companies has Outgoing set up, how many companies have you allocated to him, and what opinion has the expert commission given on the establishment of these disabled companies? How much funding has been earmarked for his disabled companies over the last five years? Has the Ministry ever carried out surveillance, given the fact that the employees have been informed of the irregularity? I also want to know: Will there be any sanctions for those responsible? We have seen in the contribution that Mr. Departure has a villa, a castle and a luxury car. It would probably be hard to get that kind of property through a fair, normal business in a few years.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u331	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u332	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor, thank you for asking. Disabled companies in Slovenia have a 60-year history. We've had 12 since 1965, now we have about 141. Eleven thousand 500 employees are in these disabled companies, half are disabled. In fact, disabled companies have the primary objective of maintaining and creating jobs for people with disabilities under the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. I would therefore like to point out here that it was not illegal to issue decisions for a company in the Crater group concerning the status of disabled companies, but was in accordance with the law, in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 4, of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. It is, of course, a story that you have set out and that was also on this show, especially the story of Slovenian employers and over-used practice. This story began mainly in 2010, when we joined Pergamum because it was a problem of transferring workers from one company to another. We have minimum standards in accordance with the EU Directive introduced by the Guarantee Fund Act, which sets out the solidarity responsibility of the transferee. Then my marriage tried to fix this earlier. Now the ZDR1 Act, which was adopted in the previous term, has arranged this by actually ensuring that the person from whom the worker is transferred has a two-year solidarity responsibility towards the worker, and that is correct. In fact, these frauds took place mainly because of this provision. However, it is necessary to separate disabled companies and then to look at the Working Relations Act. Disabled companies are exempt from payments for employees or must provide a gross payment and then receive social security contributions back. If we look at this whole sum of money that you asked me, over the five-year period, there were 275 million euros in this way, and about 55 million at the annual level. If we look at the Crater group, it has 13 companies, according to the latest data. Of these, there are 3 who act as a disabled company. Number of employees in these three companies, Paper Servis, d.o.o., total 669 employees, of which 269 are disabled, Solomon, d.o.o., total 117 employees, of which 49 are disabled, Set, d.o.o., total 213 employees, of which 87 are disabled. Set, d.o.o., was granted status 19. 12. 1990, to Solomon 22. 6. 1992, Paper Servis, d.o.o., 23. 1. 2003. The group also had a disabled company, Delo, Inpo Printing Company, d.o.o. o. which acquired the status of a disabled company 29. 12. 2006 and due to a violation of the law, the Ministry is 18. 6. By decision of 2010 the status of the disabled company was withdrawn. The expert commission for the supervision of disabled companies shall regularly carry out controls in the disabled companies listed below. The Commission did not, in the framework of its powers to supervise the existing disabled companies in the Crater group, find any irregularities that would justify the withdrawal of the status of the disabled company. In 2013, the Ministry also carried out an inspection of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the budget operating within the Ministry of Finance on the basis of an anonymous application concerning the disabled company Paper Servis, d.o.o. The inspector of that office did not take action because he did not find any irregularities. The exemption of these contributions is considered to be State aid for which these undertakings are required to report under the General Block Exemption Regulation. So it's also controlled by their consumption. With the amendment of the ZZRZI, which was in the mandate of Borut Pahor, at the time was Minister Svetlik, there was also a change to the law, where it was specifically laid down, much more precisely what these derogations could be used for. In fact, 75% can be spent on the salaries of persons with disabilities and on the adjustment of the job. There are four measures. So control is, unfortunately, a violation of the law is taking place and, unfortunately, we are not enough to follow up on the frauds that are taking place in practice. The inspection has also done a lot of checks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u333	Thank you. Mrs Jeraj has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u334	Thank you for your word. One of the companies, you say you took away the status of a disability organization or a disability company. We know some of them went bankrupt. You said the financial inspector visited the company. I wonder if it's not a work inspector if he's redistributing people from one company to another, and if he's not in violation of the labour law here, which is what you're responsible for. If you're saying he's playing law, I'd like to know if you've filed an appeal and reported Mr. Departure to the competent institutions, i.e. the National Investigation Office. As far as I know, Paper Services also played a role in March 2011, the expert committee then issued a negative opinion, and yet at the time when you were the secretary of state at this Ministry, you issued this decision. I am so interested in this concretely and what sanctions will be. If you are assessing that there was nothing wrong with the Ministry, I think that you have abandoned your duty if you did not report Mr Departure, you have declared a crime if you claim to have violated the law, so you said, and in this case you are obliged to act.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u335	Thank you. The Minister shall have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u336	In any event, the inspection has been carried out several times and has given him various measures in accordance with the infringements found. However, I said that the change in legislation was mainly crucial in terms of solidarity and responsibility when workers are transferred from one company to another, that these changes have already been agreed upon. At that time, we had a conversation with Pergamum, which covers the paper part most, so unfortunately this change was not already in 2010. The amendments to the legislation that have been adopted now make this impossible. But what I'm talking about is that it's not a violation. When it comes to infringements, there is an inspection, there is an infringement, and then there is a sanction, even if the offence is worse, a criminal complaint. Regrettably, what I have said is that after the letter of the law, sometimes the situation is such that, despite the letter of the law, workers end up suffering. And that's the problem. I take it this is basically a play-off in some way the purpose of the law. Every time this occurs, it is necessary to implement and amend legislation. As regards the agreement to increase the quota, the provision of the law, i.e. the version, provides for the Ministry's consent to increase or reduce the number of workers employed to a disabled company over 20 in the calendar year. The agreement was given to the disabled company as an economic company under the provisions of the law. In the current situation, job conservation is crucial. If it is 20 jobs, you can imagine what question you would ask me if the Ministry did not give consent and therefore a disabled company could not employ 20 disabled people at this time. I'm sorry. I spoke to a working woman in this group. I believe that, according to the examination, the Ministry then acted in full compliance with the law and gave its consent. Where the violations occurred, we took away the status of a disabled company. It was more of a problem than the issue of a disabled company, as was the case at the time, particularly with the possibilities that the then U.S.D. allowed mainly in the transfer of workers and rights that did not follow or were time-limited when it came to the transfer of workers. And this was fixed with the ZDR-1.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u337	Thank you. Mrs Jeraj has a request for a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u338	Thank you very much. I still think there's some things to look at. You said he was then exempt from disability payments, i.e. contributions. However, it may be necessary to see if all other contributions are paid and so on and not just focus on the part that affects the disabled. But I'm concerned that if we co-finance or the Ministry gives funds for these purposes, then the company goes bankrupt. We had a case where we subsidized working hours, that people stayed at home and we basically just extended it all, and after six months, companies went bankrupt and we also lost jobs. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we hold a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u339	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Wednesday, 23 April 2014, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question raised by Mrs Janja Nazast, President of the Government in the role of Minister of Health of Mags. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u340	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, everyone! During her ministry, Dr. Trop Skaza, Minister of Health, signed a contract for the reconstruction of the water supply at the Oncology Institute. There are a lot of stories and actors that we can read about in the media. Two years ago, the project was expected to cost two and a half million euros to be rehabilitated. An invitation to tender has now been made and two companies have applied. We would expect even a lower price because there are more, but there is little work, but unfortunately that is not the case. In addition, it is obvious from both providers that the subcontractor is the Medicoengineering, which we have accompanied in some of the corruption stories related to the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. This company, which belongs to the richest Slovenians, has changed its name to date, which is unusual if everything is in accordance with the law. For a number of years, the company has been operating with several health institutions and thus has been classified as one of the companies that have made a lot of money in this area in recent years. From the UKC alone, say 7.7 million euros, the Ministry of Health 2 and a half million euros, as well as other Slovenian hospitals. The owners recently found themselves in a criminal investigation. Do you think it is appropriate for such people or businesses to work for the Ministry of Health? I'm asking the Prime Minister: Are you assessing the contract as appropriate, given that the issue is not on the key, meaning that at the end it can cost significantly more than it is now in the contract – €7 million, which is huge in view of the precalculations that were previously up to €2 and a half million? How will you ensure that the story of the construction of the Oncology Institute, which has grown to eleven years from the initial construction envisaged in three years and the amount of construction from the projected 22 million euros to as much as 49 million euros? I call on the President of the Government, in her capacity as Minister of Health, or ask her to answer my question orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-22-SDZ6-Redna-24.ana.u341	Thank you, too. On the basis of your statement that you insist on an oral response, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. With this, we have exhausted all the questions for the President of the Government and the ministers and all of them, and I thank you for the answers given. I also hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Wednesday 23 April 2014, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the vote. I am also adjourning the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thanks again for today and goodbye.
