ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the third session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Violeta Tomić, Mrs Vojka Šergan, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, mag. Tanja Zink, Miha Kordiš, Mr. Franz Breznik, Mr. Branko Zorman from 15.30 p.m., Mr. Igor Zorčič to 12 noon, Dr. Franc Trček, Dr. Dragan Matić from 11.30 a.m. on, Luka Mesec, Matjaž Hanžek, mag. Matthew Tonin from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m. and Mr. Janez Janša from 5 p.m. to 5 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for an agreement on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure for the Financing of Spartan Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 11 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 23 of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia on 24 October 2014 submitted to the National Assembly the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments and additions to the Foundation's rules were considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 2nd regular meeting on 27 November 2014, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the amendments and additions to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 11 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 23 of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the National Assembly, the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia forwarded the first text of amendments and additions to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly on 18 February 2014. On the basis of comments from the Legal and Legislative Service, the President of the Council of the Foundation sent a replacement text on 15 July 2014, to which the Legislative and Legal Service reiterated its comments to most of the articles. However, on 24 October 2014, a replacement text was sent in which most of the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service were also taken into account. President of the Council of the Foundation of Mag. Katja Koren Miklavec said that in recent amendments and additions to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia followed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Services. The amendments and additions to the rules relate in particular to the status of the management function of the body which is newly unprofessional. The amendments also concern the powers and procedures for the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Foundation and the definition of the bodies of the Foundation. The right to reimbursement of travel expenses for members of the Foundation Council, members of the expert committees and members of the Complaints Commission is also governed by the 1998 Decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Without discussion, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to give its consent to the Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 24 October 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u3	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u4	Good morning! Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenia is a nation where sport has a special place. This is supported by a number of data which show that around 67% of the population are involved in regular or occasional sports activities, that 3 000 357 companies or clubs are currently involved in sports associations, that the number of categoryed athletes in Slovenia is around 5 000 500, that the terms of sports halls and gyms are usually fully occupied. If we round up the information with the Olympic achievements, where we have won medals at the top of the world, there is nothing to add to the argument about the sports people. Of course, success never comes alone. They are the result of the talent of individuals and the support of a larger and wider society, and, last but not least, neither the impact of the support of the local community nor the country. One of the important sports supporters is the Sport Foundation, which distributes €10 million annually for sports activities, the construction of sports facilities, the research and development of sport and publishing in sport. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendments and additions to the Sports Foundation's Rules, even if they are merely an adaptation to the provisions of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, which was adopted in July 2012 and was then supported by the Group of Social Democrats. That law was adopted in spite of mass opposition and warnings. With the amendments to the Act, the then coalition abolished the independence of the Council of the Sport Foundation by abolishing the position of Director of the Foundation and transferring employees to the Ministry responsible for sport. The top sports organization of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia-The Association of Sports Unions was eliminated. We then understood this in the SD Group as supporting this important social subsystem. Regardless of the many objections raised by the Commission to prevent corruption, which highlighted the creation of a conflict of interest, senior officials at the then Ministry of Sport have adapted to their own measure. The Director of the Foundation shall also act as Director General of the Directorate-General for Sport until the end of his professional function. The negative position was also expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which drew attention to the unconstitutionality of the different regulation of the same matters; the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations has a professional director. The law was reconfirmed by an absolute majority after the veto of the State Council. Amendments to the rules, as proposed by the Sports Foundation, will be supported in spite of non-compliance with the law on which they are adopted. We are convinced that this very important subsystem of society, because the entire nation of development with infinite success and at the same time caring for the psychophysical development of recreationals, needs a stable environment of action, which has not always been ensured in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u5	The text is by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Amendments and additions to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia relate in particular to the status of the management function of the body which is not professional under the current law. The amendments also concern the powers and procedures for the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Foundation and the definition of the bodies of the Foundation. The right to reimbursement of travel expenses for members of the Foundation Council, members of the expert committees and members of the Boards of Appeal is also regulated, which is in line with the Decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 1998. These amendments to the rules now follow the existing solutions to the law adopted by the Government two years ago. We stress in particular that the Council of the Foundation and its non-professional president must carry out all those functions that would otherwise be performed by the professional director. This is not only about tendering procedures for the distribution of money to sport but also about the legality and transparency of the operation of the Foundation. Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will support changes and additions to the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u7	Ms Irena Kotnik, SMC Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u8	Dear colleagues! From its creation, the Sports Foundation has an important function to this day the distribution of public funds in sport, divided by lottery funds or in accordance with the Property Conversion Act of the Lottery of Slovenia. Since 1998 the funds for gambling for the financing of sports organisations continue to come directly to the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. In recent years, the Foundation has devoted between 10 million and 13 million annually to sports organisations. In 2014, the funding for co-financing amounted to EUR 11 million. This shows that it has an important impact on the realization of public interest in sport. In doing so, the Foundation finances four important parts of sport: sports activities from top sport to sports of children and youth, sports facilities, research and development of sport and publishing in sport. In this context, the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations are important in terms of the composition of the Foundation and the powers it has in the distribution of public funds in the field of sport. The rules govern the organisation of the Foundation, the manner in which the bodies and professional bodies of the Foundation work, the rules for the decision-making procedure in the implementation of the activities, the conditions and procedure for the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Council and the members of the Professional Commissions of the Foundation. Also, the criteria and conditions for the payment of meetings and the reimbursement of other costs for members of the Foundation's bodies. However, the amendments to the rules that we are adopting today are necessary for the adoption of the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije of 2012. This provides that the general acts of function must be in line with the provisions of this Act. This amendment abolished the professional function of the Director of the Foundation and introduced the non-professional function of the President of the Council as the Managing Authority of the Foundation. In accordance with the amendment to the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, the rules of the Foundation also change the minimum number of Council members who may propose the discharge of the President or Vice-President of the Foundation's Council from three to four members and more clearly regulate the rights of members of the Council, expert committees and commissions to appeal for reimbursement of travel expenses and daily subsistence allowances. In view of the reasoned substantive changes and the role played by the Foundation for Sport in financing sports organisations, the SMC Group supports changes and additions to the Foundation's rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u9	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the adoption of a decision on consent to the Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, it is only a matter of legal formality, as the Sports Foundation has been waiting for agreement since the amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia in 2012. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fall of the Law on Property Transformation of the Loteria Slovenije, which took place at the end of May this year. We are pleased to note the professional public's warning, the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service and the veto of the Council of State that the bill was dropped by the government of Alenka Bratušek. As part of the adoption of previous amendments to the law, we have also pointed out in the SDS Group that there are many disadvantages in financing national sports associations and intransparency and inadvertent use of money. Finally, we found that one of the purposes of previous amendments to the law was also to cover up the irregularities of the people involved and by the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we have always fought for the rights of athletes and Slovenian sports, but we will never stand on the side of the privileges and luxury of sports officials. The National Assembly therefore deals with changes to the rules of the Sports Foundation. In particular, the sports public expects integrated changes in the field of sport. These, except through a variety of promises, through the new national sport programme, which is questionable at the level of their achievement and achievement of the objectives, are unfortunately not available to date. Moreover, the proposal for amendments to the bill on sport drafted by the Ministry or the Council of Experts is a worrisome one. Half the marriage text deals with a sports institution, and I wonder if there are any opportunities for staff and financial opportunities again. Unfortunately, the whole area is causing serious concern, the income in sport is falling and no one is talking about anti-crisis measures in Slovenian sport. Unfortunately, the activity of bureaucracy in Slovenian sport has cost too much over the last 20 years. We call on the Government of Mira Cerar to approach the solution of problems in Slovenian sport, but not to further cause them. The agreement to amend and supplement the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia will be supported by the SDS Group in the course of rationalisation, and according to our assessment of the operation of the Sports Foundation in the last frame of reference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u11	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the Proposal for a Decision on the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say, the proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Act on the mother's records of the insured and enjoymentrs of the rights of compulsory deceased and invalidity insurance. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Dejan Levanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Today you have before you a proposal for a law that we have prepared at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities at the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and on the basis of the decision of the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and also on the basis of the conclusion of the meeting of the Economic and Social Council. In the proposal for this law, we extend the time limit for the harmonisation of the status of persons who have to report to the PPIZ whether they will remain insured or retired. We have already extended the deadline for harmonisation of this status, if you remember, up to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So we've extended it until the end of this year, and now we're extending it for another year. Therefore, at that time, persons must be made clear whether they will carry out their activities and pay their contributions or decide to close their activities and take advantage of their pensions. The key issue in this question is that we wanted to go to all those who are also pensioners and at the same time manage some activity. We received a lot of warnings from the parties, telling people that we would like to do this in the future, so we decided to extend this status for another year, while committed ourselves to finding the right solution so that someone can be able to perform a certain activity at the same time, so in 2015 we will also find this systemic solution. Secondly, this bill also provides for the exemption of pensions and the payment of contributions to the following persons, i.e. retired independent entrepreneurs who have been issued decisions by the institution and all pensioners who have carried out work or activity on day 31. 12. 2012, this is the last day of past legislation, i.e. the ZPIZ-1, which allowed certain exceptions and which should also be included in insurance, and the institution has not yet issued them a decision. In particular, we would like to point out that an amendment was also adopted on the parental committee, which also governs the persons who opened the activity after 2012. In doing so, we must note that after 2012, already the law of ZPIZ-2 has entered into force, which no longer allowed two statuses, so that someone would be a pensioner while doing business. These people were eleven, and these people clearly knew when they entered the pension insurance and at the same time opened up the activity. In fact, it should be clarified or made clear that they do not have an open espionage, but these people in Slovenia are currently 11 and cannot be solved in this context. Thirdly, the bill also provides a legal basis for the further payment of pensions to persons who have acquired student status. Next, we did this for the 2014/2015 study year, when someone after Bologna completed their studies on time or early in the first stage, according to a proposal for a law before that – or the family pension would cease to be paid. We have also resolved that this right has the right to the end of the academic year, not only this year, but also all the years to come. Thus, this bill also saved all the students, regardless of the fact that they finish their studies prematurely and would, if we did not solve it, be punished for their future. Thank you very much, but more of course in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u13	The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs, disabled persons as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u14	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to give you a brief presentation of the report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Registry of Insurance and Users of Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance. The Committee on the Work of the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as the parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons’ Register of Rights of Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly, of course, confirmed the procedure. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative of ZPIZ, the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia and the representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and made some comments, namely the fifth article of the proposal. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which, of course, supports the proposed measures. The Commission notes that in practice there are desires and needs to extend the individual’s working activities even after retirement. Therefore, it joins in calling for a system-wide regulation of this problem. It has been particularly exposed to the fact that it is a multi-layered problem that will require the coordination of the very diverse interests of employers, employees, pensioners, so different generations, and consequently more time for responses, by seeking appropriate possibilities for pensioners to work without the expiry of the proposed extension period. It is necessary to adopt solutions which, at the same time, will be fair to all generations, which will allow for an equal position for all, will not constitute a basis for unfair competition. Of course, they will have to be financially sustainable as far as the cash pension is concerned. During the business term, the New Slovenia Group tabled Article 8 and Article 10 by qualified amendments. Therefore, as its amendment to Article 10, both amendments were adopted. The representative of the applicant stressed that the proposed measures would provide for an extension of the deadline for the harmonisation of the individual insurance status, which would have to align their status with the provisions of the new PSIZ-2. Without amending the legislation and these persons should have their status regulated by the end of this year. Thus, they will be able to carry out activities for another year and will not be subject to compulsory inclusion in insurance and pensioners will be able to continue to receive pensions. The proposed law will ensure that the consequences arising from the determination of the characteristics of insured persons are addressed in accordance with the implementation of the provisions of the Law of the ZPIZ-2, which provided for the harmonisation of double statuses for all of them, which are at 31 days. 12. simultaneously carried out an activity and were not included in the insurance or had an illegal overlap with the status of pensioners with the status of the insured. As already mentioned in the introduction, the bill will allow family pensioners who have acquired the status of a student for the school year 2014/2015 and have graduated before the end of this study year to be paid their pension even when they do not have the status of a student subject to general pension law and have completed studies prior to the completion of the student's status. As it is said, the Committee voted on all articles and adopted both amendments and laws. In the light of the amendment adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes both adopted amendments, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report, which you have also received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u15	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, representative of the Ministry, colleague, colleague! The proposal for a law governs three very different areas: the regulation of reporting on revenue for construction workers posted by companies to work in Austria is an administrative solution to which we do not have any comments. We also agree with the proposal that students who will graduate in the middle of the school year will be able to receive a family pension by the end of this academic year. The question of the possibility of persons performing gainful activities receiving a retirement pension at least for a period of time is more complex. In the Group of the United Left, we were prepared to support the Government's original proposal. In that proposal, persons who are legally retired in accordance with the old Pension Insurance Act would be given extra time to regulate their position. We have supported this possibility, even though these people have had some time to regulate this situation. The main reason is because the initial situation was lawful under the old law. On the other hand, we know that more groups of the population were unreasonably affected by the pension reform. This was not much to talk about, but, for example, the law distinguished persons with disabilities who were registered at the employment office and those who were employed at that time, although not full-time. In short, the law laid down stricter conditions for the retirement of disabled workers who were willing to accept a job that they would not otherwise have to accept under law. Since the budget was saved part of the waiting allowance, they were punished with stricter conditions. But these insurers weren't as lucky as retired entrepreneurs to stand up for them as a party because they don't fit into the naive ideology of entrepreneurship that rules in this country. In the United Left Group, we therefore agree that PIZ-2 will have to be reopened and redressed. Surely it will be necessary to reconsider or to allow someone to carry out additional activities to a lesser extent, to pay contributions and to receive a pension at the same time. In doing so, we are of the view that the pension is a social category. When someone due to age is no longer able to do payroll work, as a society, we are obliged to provide him with a decent pension. As long as he's able and willing to do a job that's also decently paid, he doesn't need a pension. From the principle point of view, the exclusion between the status of the insured and the status of the recipient of the pension is correct. Compulsory pension insurance is not a private pension fund to depend on how much the insured person has invested, but is based on solidarity. Everyone contributes according to their capabilities, and everyone has to be provided with a decent pension. There have been several attempts to introduce individual accounts and reduce solidarity, which we will not agree to in the United Left. In practice, things are very complex. One is a full-time activity, the other is called the afternoon espionage when it comes to foreign earnings. We will therefore wait for proposals from the competent ministry. However, we will not support the proposal of the parent committee and the NSI in order to extend the transitional period to persons who are said to have acquired only 11 of these hybrid status following the entry into force of the new law, which is contrary to the law. If we adopted this proposal, we would re-establish an illegal situation and violate the principle of legality, whereby legal standards must be harmonised between themselves. Such arrangements would be in direct contravention of the umbrella law on pension and disability insurance, which does not know the exceptions. The principle of equality would also be baptized, as different situations are not allowed to be treated equally. In this case, it is clear that it is not possible to equate legal conditions with illegal ones, so in the United Left we will only support the law if an amendment is adopted within the meaning of the original solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u17	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We view the novel as extremely problematic for Christian Democrats. Let us say immediately that otherwise it solves a large part of the problems in which those pensioners after the STIZ-1 who were also active as espés were not to blame. At the same time, in its original form, it has created new inequalities, as the Legislative and Legal Service also points out in its opinion. That is precisely why we have proposed an amendment to Article 115.a. and thus set the date of entry into force of this law, which we are considering today, which will in fact mean that all persons with pension status who carry out an activity are covered by the exemption from pension benefits and not only those who are on the 31st day. 12. 2012 carried out activities simultaneously and had pension status. Let us give thanks here to all who have come to know the meaning of this solution and have supported our amendment. Unfortunately, the coalition wants an anti-amendment immediately, which eliminates the obligation to repay debt only for persons who are concealed in violation of the provisions of the ZPIZ-2 on Day 31. 12. 2014, destroy our amendment and thus cause new inequalities. In our view, such a solution could also be unconstitutional, as it places pensioners who started work or activity in 2013 or 2014. For this reason, the Christian Democrats of this amendment of the coalition will not be supported. We call on the competent authorities to find, in the interests of all those affected, systemic solutions for the regulation of the status of pensioners as soon as possible. Common sense suggests that it is pointless for pensioners who wish to continue their activities after retirement to prevent or prohibit this activity. Such a solution is not good for our economy and plagues the economic initiative of our people. In the accompanying text of the novel, the International Comparison of the Regulation of the Work Area of Retired Persons in All Relevant Countries, including Germany, Austria, Spain, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Poland and others, read that no post-retirement activities are prohibited in any novelty or in any of these countries. Can that tell us anything? Can we learn from this in Slovenia? We know that the proposer will teach us that PIZ-2 is such a complicated law that there is no way to change it. Colleagues and colleagues, Christian Democrats, we know that this is precisely the same approach as it is to a large extent to blame for the state in which our country is. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will vote against the amendment of the coalition and we will not oppose the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u19	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u20	Your Honor! The basic objective of the amendment is to ensure an extension of the deadline for the harmonisation of the status of individual insurers who have to align their status with the 2012 Decisions of the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek wishes to point out that already the previous government of December 2013 has extended the new Act on the National Registry of Insurance and Users of Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance, until 31 December 2014, at the time of the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Occupational Pensions of Slovenia. It appears that the new government has also decided to extend the deadline on the basis of the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and the discussions on the Economic and Social Council. In the Alliance's Parliamentary Group Alenka Bratušek, we will support the proposal of the law, since this does not only solve the problems of pensioners, but also saves the employment status and social status of others in those who have employed other workers. The old Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was in force until 31 December 2012, provided that an exemption was granted to pensioners who carried out an additional activity or had an open espé if they had at least one employee to carry out that activity or were insured on the basis of a working relationship. However, all other pensioners who did not comply with these conditions had to decide whether or not to cease their separate activities and retire or continue to carry out this activity. The new law no longer permits exceptions. At the same time, we call on the Minister responsible to end the proposals for temporary solutions, which prolong double statuses from year to year. We expect it to provide us with a final decision in the coming year, or that it will address this issue in a way that does not actually double the status, or double the status, for all, without exception. As regards the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group at Article 8, which sets the date of entry into force for the cross-border date of the Act on the National Registration of Insurance and Retirement and Disabled Persons from Last Year's Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance, we oppose such a solution in the Member Group. The implementation of this solution would mean that we are retroactively prejudiced in 2012 by the adopted pension legislation and introduce a new category of persons who carried out activities before 31 December 2012 and were not justified until the transitional period, either in 2013 or 2014 on the basis of new legislation. We will therefore support the proposal of the ruling coalition for the annulment of the adopted amendment or for the establishment of the original solution contained in Article 8 of the bill. In the Alliance of Alenka Bratusek, we will therefore support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u21	The text is given by the SMC Group, for which Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! We support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the mother records of insured persons and beneficiaries of compulsory pension and disability insurance in the SMC Group. We believe that it brings positive changes and saves the social distress of a particular social group. The proposed law extends the deadline for the harmonisation of the status of insured persons and this will help to maintain the exercise of independent activities. The pensioners will not have to close the espies and will continue to receive their pension without delay. Currently, the deadline for the harmonisation of insurance status is 31 December of this year, with the amendment of the law extending this period until 31 December 2015. The measure introduced by the law will also ensure that all employees are kept and kept in working relationships with pensioners with open espies. Thus, workers will retain their jobs, pay full contributions to social security and, consequently, will not exercise unemployment rights. In this way, the State will not have to provide additional resources from the State budget. The proposed law will also ensure that the consequences of determining the characteristics of insured persons in accordance with the implementation of Article 406 of the ZPIZ-2, which provides for the harmonisation of double statuses, are addressed. For all persons on day 31. 12. At the same time, 2012 carried out activities and were not included in the insurance or had unlawfully covered the pension status with the status of the insured, the draft law provides that they do not have to refund the pensions received and pay full contributions to social security. The bill regulates another area to be highlighted, and these are family pensions. The Law will allow family pensioners who have obtained student status for the academic year 2014/2015 and have graduated before the end of the study year to be paid their pensions even at a time when they do not have student status. It is subject to general pension legislation by completing studies before the status. It should be pointed out here that the proposal for a law allows them to receive a family pension even during a transitional period, for example during the completion of a first-degree study and the initiation of a second-degree study, which is of course positive. The debate on the draft law focused on the issue of prolonging the working activities of the individual and pension policy. In practice, there are both desires and the need to extend the working activities of individuals, so it should be pointed out that it is imperative to find a systemic solution for the work activities of pensioners before the end of the deadline, which is now extended by the proposal of this law for a further year, that is until the end of 2015. We will therefore support the bill in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u23	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you for the words of the President, the distinguished representative of the Government, the honourable Members and Members! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will propose an amendment to the Law on the Home Record of Insurance and Receipts from Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance. The proposed amendment is intended to extend the deadline for the harmonisation of the status of insurers who carry out a separate activity while receiving a pension. This will prevent the occurrence of material damage to pensioners who are receiving pensions while doing their own work and should otherwise be paid back and paid full contributions, which could dramatically exacerbate their social situation. Thus, pensioners will have more time to decide whether to carry out their activities and pay their contributions or decide to close their activities and enjoy a pension. This will also not endanger the jobs of people who are employed by pensioners who carry out a self-employed activity. There are also individuals, entrepreneurs who, in meeting the conditions for retirement, have retired but have continued to work and employ people. All these jobs would be at risk if now such an individual, due to legislation, decided to cease the activity. It is right that individuals who, despite their age, are willing to work are allowed to do so, and the pensions to which the contributions paid are entitled cannot be deducted. The amendment of the law also allows students who complete studies before the end of the academic year to receive a family pension by the end of the academic year. This change seems reasonable to us, since, after the current legislation, it is those good students who complete their studies a few months before the completion of their studies who are being punished for quitting their family pension. As a result of these changes, the proposed amendment of the law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The re-extension of the time limit for the harmonisation of the status brought into force by today's proposal for amendments to the Home Record Act covers pensioners who had legally open espas because they met the conditions for exemption from insurance, students who have open espas, members who should be included in insurance under the pension law but who did not fulfil the conditions for inclusion in insurance after the previous old pension law. The Pension and Disability Insurance Office has coordinated the records of the implementation and implementation of the new pension law, i.e. ZPIZ-2, with regard to the overlap between double statuses, showing that some pensioners were engaged in activities contrary to pension law and, consequently, would not have been entitled to pay their pension at that time. These persons have been given a decision on the identified characteristics of the insured and, consequently, these persons should pay contributions for a period of up to five years and return overpaid pensions for a period of up to three years. Since such an intervention was found to be disproportionate, the amendment provides for the exemption of pensions and the payment of contributions to retired independent entrepreneurs who have been granted decisions by the institution and to all pensioners who carried out their work or activities on 31 December 2012 and who should be included in the insurance, the institution has not yet issued them a decision. These beneficiaries will have to decide within one year, i.e. by the end of 2015 whether to carry out their activities and pay their contributions or decide whether to close their activities and benefit from their pensions. However, not all pensioners who have opened espa after 1 January 2013 will be entitled to the exemption of pensions and contributions. These persons are fully subject to the ZPIZ-2, the guiding principle of which is, each work is considered to be incompatible with the status of the insured person with the status of the pensioner. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the extension of the deadline, as we are aware that these people must have a reasonable time frame to regulate all possible existing relationships that we have with our customers to credit institutions, and especially to their employees. However, we all know very well that respect for the law and warnings of all competent authorities by insurers or pensioners has already been questionable in the course of the validity of the STIZ-1. This is also true now that the new law is in force and so has been the case during the first extension period. Ignorance of legislation always has some consequences. We just need to rent this. As far as the work of the pensioners is concerned, the visions and directions of the Desus Group are as follows: according to the state of the labour market, to the high level of unemployment and to the present, according to our assessment of the inappropriate and inadequate arrangements of various forms of work, we are in favour of a systematic overhaul of all forms of work in Desus. We have already taken the first step towards this by reorganising the student work that we have accepted at this meeting of the assembly. The issue of the work of pensioners must be urgently resolved in the coming year. In doing so, there will be no need to follow regulations abroad. Of course, it would be necessary to do something else in all other forms of hard work, as well as in the system of work relations, which we believe must remain the primary form of the working population. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners we support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u27	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u28	Mr. President, the well-respected High Council! Pension and Disability Insurance Act-1, which was in force until 31. 12. In 2012, it provided an exemption from insurance, which means that the pensioner was able to continue to operate on his own terms and had an open espé and received a full pension at the same time. These persons were therefore not included in the compulsory insurance, the club in order to carry out the activity. Only those pensioners who fulfilled the legal conditions for exemption could keep espas and pensions. However, all other pensioners who did not comply with these conditions had to decide whether or not to cease their independent activity and retire or continue to carry out this activity and will continue to be included in the insurance, which means that they were not paid their pension at that time. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act-2 has abolished all these exemptions and no longer allows the protection of the status of an insured person with pension status. In order to ensure that all self-employed persons are treated equally in pension legislation, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act-2 provided for a transitional period within which pensioners who carry out a self-employed activity must decide whether to continue to carry out their activities, pay their contributions or retire, receive their pensions and cease their activities. The current bill extends the deadline for the harmonisation of the status of pensioners with open espouses, including other persons who had to align their status under the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act-2. For example, those who are co-managers in society, students who have an open espé for one year, that is up to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment regulates the situation of pensioners who did not have the option of exempting from insurance under previous legislation and did some work or activity despite the status of pensioners. When this work or activity has been carried out unlawfully in accordance with legislation, it should, in accordance with the legislation in force, reimburse the unjustifiable amounts of the pension received and also pay full contributions to social security. Since the recovery of the debt could endanger the material and social situation of these persons, the amendment of the law proposes that pensions and full contributions are exempt. In this regard, it should be noted that legislation does, however, make it possible for companies to regulate their status in a different way and thus continue to operate where they do not at the same time have the property of the insured and at the same time receive a pension, but as pension recipients they run a particular company. Despite all of this, it is said that the matter is resolved that the deadline will be very likely to be extended, as we all support this law, and we take into account the plight of the people in this unfortunate situation, and we understand their distress – even those who, after the likely amendment, will not be entitled to these benefits. We will therefore support any solution that will regulate the situation of these groups of pensioners, in accordance with the legislation in force, based in particular on the proportionality of the measure, and thus protect the social situation of the affected. We are close to solving this problem in such a way as to ensure that all pensioners who carried out the activity while receiving the pension have, on an official basis, checked that the profit in each year exceeds the amount of the annual minimum wage. If the profit from the operation did not exceed this minimum wage, the insurance is not compulsory and means that the pension for that period should not be refunded. We welcome the initiative of the Ministry of Labour, which is already exploring the possibilities of regulating the overlap between pension status and the status of the insured. We hope that in due course and with the consensus of all stakeholders we will find a systemic solution to this problem. We also welcome the solution to family pension payments for students who graduate before the end of the academic year. The Social Democrats will support the bill and, of course, all the novelties of the coalition groups of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u29	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendments SMC, DeSUS and SD. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the bill on the organ and the bank resolution fund by emergency procedure. I'm adjourning the session in 15 minutes. We'll pick it up at 10:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u30	We continue with the adjourned session. There are two procedural proposals. I saw the first mag. It's a cakemaker. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u31	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for an organ law and a bank resolution fund. It is once again a law that will intervene in the rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia. Slovenia is one of the transition countries which, for the second time in a row, saved the banking system at the expense of taxpayers. One year ago, we invested more than €5 billion in taxpayers' money in banks. Today, we have a new law on the table that envisions the resolution of the banking system. Last week, the government nationalized the Bank of Celje. It's an important marriage, it's an important money, it's more than €5 billion. Reinvestigation with tax money is likely to be envisaged, in one way or another. In such an important marriage, I would expect a ministerial minister to attend the meetings of the National Assembly. The Minister of State was not even on the Committee on Finance. A number of questions were lacking on the Committee on Finance and the answers by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. However, I would like to draw attention to one point that I have already pointed out on the Committee on Finance. Article 5 of the Act states: "The Fund is managed by the Bank of Slovenia, so it is managed, represented and represented." Mr President, under such an important law, under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Bank of Slovenia, I am interested in why the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia or one of the vice-governors of the Bank of Slovenia is not present today. The same story was on the Finance Committee. I think this thing is getting more serious from day to day, and it shows the attitude of the government of Mir Cerar and this coalition towards the National Assembly and also the attitude towards the state. I want to know where the secretary is and where the governors or vice-governors of the Bank of Slovenia are.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u32	One more procedural proposal, and then I'll answer both. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much, President. I don't remember, at least I don't – those who have been in Parliament for a long time, but perhaps they will say something of their own – to interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly because there was no government. But there was a agenda, a point was set, and there was simply no government. In the National Assembly, the Government has its premises, and on-call spaces. They have a man accompanying the meeting of the National Assembly, and he also informs me because I can't imagine ministers and secretaries sitting here all day because they probably have another job to do. So, President, if we start and continue this practice now, especially because my fellow Member warned me that I was a little harsh when I asked why we were interrupting the meeting. Of course, the meeting should be suspended for a reason, and we usually know when we are interrupting it — at the request of the leaders of the sent groups. We interrupt because we have either a closed session, either an election or anything else that is stipulated by the Rules of Procedure, but not because the Government is not. Therefore, I ask the President of the National Assembly that, in accordance with your powers, you also remind the Government to carry out its duties, because they are their laws, because they bring laws to the National Assembly and not to the contrary, that we understand each other. The second thing that seems very important to me is, of course, what my colleague said before me; that is, that there is no minister – there is a replacement, there is a secretary of state, that is a fact and that is possible by the rules of procedure, so I do not see such a big problem here. I agree, however, that at least someone from the Bank of Slovenia should be, and this exception was made in the previous Parliamentary reference, if you remember when the Governor came to the National Assembly to report, because it was not a practice before. This practice is established and there are no procedural reasons for not being here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u34	Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 73, the chairpersons may suspend the work of the National Assembly during the meeting and decide when to proceed. Whether or not to explain it is a matter for the president. That's the first thing. Another issue that is the answer to the previous one is that the applicant in this case is the Government, of this law, and I see the Government presented in this law. However, when Banka Slovenije was also invited, an agreement was reached at the College and the whole matter was led accordingly. This deal didn't happen, or at least I don't know about it, and I've been to these colleges. She was not particularly invited to do so. I think we can proceed with the procedure. Procedurally on the same subject? Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u35	Of course, I expected you, President, to read an article in the Rules of Procedure that sets out this possibility for you to terminate at any time. But it is fitting that you are the first of the same to at least explain why you broke up. Because, otherwise, I expect me to, too, when I have a point as my proposer and if I'm going to be late, you're going to interrupt the meeting. Indeed, until now we have never interrupted it because of the Members. So, is now the rule that the government is the one we have to wait for or vice versa? Who's waiting for whom and who's representing whom? Relationship and respect come first, and then we can talk about content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u36	If you may have noticed, I explained earlier why I interrupted the session. Any more procedural? Mag. It's a cookbook, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u37	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I didn't get an answer. We have a representative of Banka Slovenije here and we have no answer why there is no Governor of Banka Slovenije or one of the vice-governors. The same story was repeated on the Committee on Finance. I think that we are talking about important things: once again, a resolution of the banking system, more than €5 billion has already been put in place, the question of what is being prepared for us in the future, the Bank of Celje was nationalised last week. This law is probably not adopted because flowers are flowering in banks in Slovenia, but probably because banks are sinking. I will read once again Article 5 of the proposed law: "The Bank of Slovenia manages the fund by running it, representing it and representing it." The proposer is the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, however, we will discuss the law and the fund for which the Bank of Slovenia is solely responsible and we have not seen a Vice-Governor, Vice-Governor or Governor of the Bank of Slovenia on the Committee on Finance. It should also be noted that the President of the Finance Committee did not invite the Bank of Slovenia to the committee. She didn't invite her until three days, 12 hours before the board. Today, however, we are talking about a law for which Banka Slovenije will be exclusively responsible, and we are talking again about some tax money. I demand an answer! We can stop the meeting again. A number of questions were on the committee and many questions were not answered. Today, we have again in the National Assembly a law that is written flawed, which has legal voids and could not explain to the representatives of the Government or the representative of the Bank of Slovenia. I want to know why there is no governor or one of the vice-governors present today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u38	I hereby give the floor to Mrs Urski Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u39	Just an answer to Mr Pogačnik's misleading words. Banka Slovenije was invited to the meeting of the Committee on Finance, which was invited to the Bank of Slovenia by e-mail on Tuesday. But when Banka Slovenije received it, I don't know. There was an invitation to leave on Tuesday, but on Monday we were invited members of the committee with an invitation. But who will attend the meeting by Banka Slovenije and is on Banka Slovenije. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u40	What I can say is that, without the authority of a delegation of the Ministry of Finance, also a representative of the Bank of Slovenia, not a representative, but let us say, the representative of Banka Slovenije, Mojca Trstenjak, was also invited to this meeting and is present in this delegation. That's how I talk about what the real state of affairs is. I'm not saying she has the authority to speak, but I'm saying she's present. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u41	I have a procedural proposal, President. That this path, of course, is in accordance with your authority to suspend the meeting and invite the governor to the meeting or the one the governor will set — that is, at least, the vice-governor. This, of course, is what must be done in the National Assembly, for once we will put things in a place that is answered in the name of someone. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance has probably prepared the law in accordance with their agreements and certainly not without them and will probably also be able to answer and defend the law in the National Assembly in a much more competent manner for certain issues. I see no reason, Banka Slovenije is here for 2 minutes and if the Minister or Secretary of State can come quickly, we will wait here for another 15, 20 minutes. However, it is of course a matter for the Government to do so, especially if your Member says that she has sent an invitation as chairman. So all the conditions are met, you just have to make them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u42	Procedural mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u43	Dear President, I still haven't received an answer. The representative of Banka Slovenije is among us, this is what I saw, we also welcomed her, the same on the Committee on Finance. My question was why today's meeting of the National Assembly was not attended by the Governor of Banka Slovenije or one of the Deputy Governors. This shows the attitude of this government and also Banka Slovenije to this. Today we will talk about a law that is solely within the competence of the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance or the Government. I will read once again Article 5 of the proposed law: "The Bank of Slovenia manages the fund by being led by the represented representative." This means that Banka Slovenije will probably have to answer. With regard to the invitation and the invitation of the Committee on Finance, President-in-Office of the Committee on Finance, I have not failed. You're the one who called the eightth session. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the You called the 11th Committee. 12. 2014 at 6 p.m. At this invitation, you invited the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service to the 1st item. That means you didn't invite Banka Slovenije. We have already mentioned this on the Committee on Finance, and then panic has taken place, and we have requested that you send us the invitation of the Bank of Slovenia to the Committee on Finance. Of course that didn't happen. It was only an oral explanation that the invitation was sent, but we did not see this invitation. We don't know who you invited. I wonder if you invited the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, whether you invited the Vice Governor or the Vice Governor or someone else. The fact is that you did not invite Banka Slovenije at the meeting. And we've explained. Given the importance of this law and the involvement of banks, it would be normal to invite the Association of Banks of Slovenia and individual banks to convene this meeting. Your answer was that the meeting was public and that anyone could attend. That was your answer, read your magnetogram, and that shows your relationship. All I care about is asking for answers and explanations. One more time. And I will insist. I also agree with my colleague Möderndorfer that the meeting should be suspended and that it would make sense that either the Governor or the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije attends this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u44	That's it now. Procedural proposals are not intended to be discussed with other Members. That's the first part of the story. The second part of the story is Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, and that is the reason for certain procedural proposals. At the beginning of each item of the agenda, the applicant or his representative may submit a supplementary explanation and then request it. The proposer or his representative must provide an additional explanation if the National Assembly so decides – and in this process we have waited for the Government and the Government to come, the Government is the proposer and therefore the procedural conditions for this law to be considered and this law to be considered are met. I don't really think I have anything to think about. That's my decision. [[…]] This law will begin with a presentation of the Government's position and the Government's position will be presented by the State Secretary in the Cabinet of the President of the Government of Slovenia, Mr. Methods of Dragonja. That's where I said it was. Now, Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u45	Look, President, you're at the point where you're actually protecting the integrity of the National Assembly. I don't know why you put sand in your head. In view of the fact that, in fact, a number of errors have been made in the committee procedure, the President's statement that the meeting is public – what we learn only today in the plenary session and that, of course, anyone who wants can come – is absurd to me. But it's ridiculous! In the previous term, we had a problem with whether the Governor of the Bank had the right to enter this Chamber in plenary, and we have made it clear that he had it. Today, we renounce the right to invite him to come to defend the law of which procedure Mr Pogačnik warned the procedure. As the Slovenians look at us, we don't understand that we're moving now and we're talking about some engraving of the rules of procedure, but when you know, the President, that you can do everything. First, you can interrupt the meeting, ask this government – and it will never think of doing anything like this again, because in the process itself at other stages they will always include everything necessary, so that such a matter will not happen again – and of course invite the governor to join us, the Government will do so itself, and within half an hour we will be able to continue and there will be no complications. We're going to get the final answers, and that's the sovereigns, and I believe, supported by the arguments why this marriage is good. And the matter will be clear. We will all be pleased, and we will probably support the changes if we are satisfied with everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u46	Who else had the procedure next to you? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u47	Presidents, when it comes to debates between Members and Members, you are very precise, warn us, interrupt, and so is the real one. Now that you are on the move to defend our integrity and our demands, you have chosen to take on the role of lawyers of the Government and the Bank of Slovenia. That's not right. Yes, this protects the decision that today we are not the ones most responsible, and given that we are talking about extremely important matter, it would be right to have the most responsible with us today. Today, the National Assembly will have to decide on important decisions. Why are you putting us in a second-rate position? I call on you, and now I urge you to comply with the rules of procedure, because you have this option, ensure that those who can answer all the questions raised will be with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u48	Okay. We'll continue the meeting at 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u49	We will continue our meeting at 11.15.Dear Members, I inform you that we will continue our meeting at 11.15.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u50	Dear Members and Members, we continue our adjourned session. First of all, let me inform you that the meeting will be attended by the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije mag. Janez Fabian. He'll get the word at the point of the amendments themselves. I ask or give the floor to further explain the bill to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary in the cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u51	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First, I'd like to apologize for the complication at the beginning. He was a technical failure, the services didn't let us know. If we knew the point would come up so fast, we'd be sitting here an hour early. However, Minister Maramor is sitting at the government's meeting today, with the exception of the Government meeting on Wednesday, and on the basis of business, he has given me the authority to participate in the meeting of the National Assembly. Allow me to briefly present the key substantive points and reasons why the Government proposes the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. During the financial crisis, which was estimated by the International Monetary Fund to result in losses in the European banking system over €1 trillion or 8% of the European Union's gross social product over the period 2007-2010, it has also been shown that there are not adequate instruments at European Union level to deal effectively with fragile credit institutions and investment firms. Such instruments are primarily needed to prevent insolvency or where they occur to reduce the negative consequences by maintaining systemicly important functions in financial institutions. These crisis problems have contributed significantly to the need for Member States to decide to resolve financial institutions with taxpayers' money. However, the objective of the credible framework for the rehabilitation and resolution of banks is to avoid further needs to the extent possible for the resolution of banks to engage the money of countries or taxpayers. The proposal of the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the procedure proposes the establishment of a special bank resolution fund to be financed by contributions from the banking sector and to provide funding for possible bank resolution measures in difficulty. The Fund thus represents an important guarantee for the planned implementation of the measures for the stability of banks, while protecting the state budget from any new emergency measures carried out by the Bank of Slovenia monetary authority and from additional burdens on bank resolution. The proposal for a law partially transposes Directive 2014/59 establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. The proposal for a law transposes this Directive in the work in which it provides for the establishment of an instrument of public support for equity. And that is exactly the kind of instrument that is a bank resolution fund. Why only partial implementation of this Directive – because it is envisaged that this Directive will be fully implemented by the new Systemic Banking Act, which the Government is currently considering at the meeting and will be submitted to the National Assembly for a regular procedure because it is an important system law. However, for part of the material which, after the initial proposal, should be covered by the Banking Act, the Government has decided to submit a special law defining only the body and the bank resolution fund, which may be in difficulty. It is said that the Government does not propose this law because banks would be in a poor financial situation at this time or because we are foreseeing a new intervention to save banks, but mainly to avoid the exposure of the state budget to any further measures to ensure the stability of banks. In the past week, measures have been taken to ensure stability in Banka Celje, making it possible for the Government to assume that the banking system in Slovenia has been rehabilitated and that it is established [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] to solve it further. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u53	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Your Honor! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 10th emergency meeting. 12. In 2014, the Government submitted the proposal for an Authority Act and a Bank Resolution Fund to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an emergency procedure. In addition to the legislative proposal, the Committee was also given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which does not support the proposal. As material, the Committee also received amendments from the coalition parliamentary groups of 10. 12. 2014 and 11. 12. 2014 and the review of the amendments of 11. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the coalition groups at Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19 and 21. The amendment of the Committee to Article 5 of the bill was also proposed. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the main solutions to the draft law, which is the establishment of a special fund for bank resolution, which will be financed by contributions from the banking sector and will provide funding for possible bank resolution measures in difficulty. The limits of payments to this fund are set at 1,3 % of the ceiling of the guaranteed deposits of the individual bank. Thus, the state would no longer enter the recapitalisation of banks. The draft law also allows other banks to be used in difficulty for the resolution of the bank, which benefits all banks, and the funds paid into the fund by each bank are considered to be an investment by the bank. As a result of their payment, the bank’s assets are not reduced. The fact that the funds of this fund should not be used to cover the losses of the bank in difficulty also contributes significantly to the protection of the deposit banks, but only to recapitalise banks when the bank balances have already been cleared. At the same time, the draft law formalises the position of the Bank of Slovenia, because it is defined as the authority exercising the powers of the resolution authority. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained the written opinion and specifically drew attention to Articles 5 and 11 of the Law. Many questions were raised in the debate by members of the Committee. The members of the committee asked why the law was being dealt with in an emergency procedure. They also asked which banks would be subject to the law and which are those who would not pay the fund for different reasons. They wondered which part of the directive was transposed by law into our legal order and why only part was transferred and how much resources would be raised in accordance with it. They also highlighted the issue of guaranteed deposits as movable items and what it means for individual bank depositors. They want to know what would happen if the fund were used up and what the status of the funds was. They highlighted the non-participation of senior representatives of the Bank of Slovenia at the meeting and wanted the European Central Bank's written opinion on the law. They also stressed the fact that there are no consequences for poor operation and thus continue with poor practice, and wanted to know why the state does not require reimbursement of funds from rehabilitated banks. Some members expressed satisfaction with the proposal for a law because they felt that banks should also contribute to the resolution of the financial crisis and felt that the adoption of the law was a better alternative than the possible adoption of a law on financial transactions tax. It is estimated that some €350 million will be added to the fund and that some funds will be earmarked for possible recapitalisation of banks in difficulty and budget planning will therefore be easier and more realistic. During the discussion, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Bank of Slovenia provided some answers to these questions. At the end of the discussion, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to Article 5 of the coalition groups and the amendment of the Committee. The Committee then voted on the articles of the proposal and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will move the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Mr Vice Governor, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today there will be another debate on banks, on Slovenian state banks. We had a lot of discussions already, and there were some good solutions, but the question is, what do our people have out of it? What's the key problem? The key problem is that we were unable in Slovenia, we did not have this political power to privatise banks at the right time. We are in a group of eight countries where the country has a majority ownership role or majority ownership stake in banks, and these countries are: Costa Rica, Sri Lanka, Ethiopia, India, Iraq, Syria, Cuba, Slovenia. Slovenia is a member of the European Union, the only member of this group. I recently spoke with the President of Albania. He said the banks were privatized long ago. It is also true that privatisation would probably happen if, during the period of Slovenia's independence, there was at least one right-wing government. We've never had one! That's why we're here today, and we're dealing with terrible problems, with public financial problems, and obviously we don't know how to turn the memory on, because we use people's memory to avoid repeating mistakes. Of course, this is now not a criticism of this government and of this composition of the ministerial team, but it is high time that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, adopt measures that will have a positive effect on our people as well. That's why the banks are giving us such a terrible increase in public debt. The lowest was at the end of 2008, when we left the government. Today, this debt is such that if I look with economic eyes, I wonder when in Slovenia we can even have some economic activity that could pass on a calculation of 1.1 billion interest. That's the problem with us and our families coming after us. We have spent or recently spent 5 billion taxpayers' money to rehabilitate Slovenian banks. The bank recovery was also to be supported by holders of subordinated bank bonds that were fully decommissioned. Their contribution amounted to almost EUR 0.5 billion, and the resolution of the banking system is not nearly complete. Recently, we earmarked tax money for the recapitalisation or maintenance of Bank Celje. In the short term, according to the Ministry of Finance's forecast, the rehabilitation of Gorenjska Banka is still ahead and, as if that was not enough, we are hearing stories about the creation of a new bank hole in already-saved banks. It is high time, colleagues and colleagues, that funds for the rehabilitation of banks are provided from other sources, not from the taxpayer's money. Therefore, we welcome only the idea of a special fund for bank resolution. In our belief, banks must first make their own contribution to the resolution of banks that will be in trouble in the future. Finally, thank God, we are also bound by the European Directive 59 adopted this year. However, there will be no mistake, Christian Democrats support the idea of establishing a bailout fund for banks, not the very realization of this idea, as the Government has brought to the National Assembly. First of all, we stress that the content of this law is so important that it should be dealt with on a regular basis and not in any way by an urgent procedure. This is a key and a first problem. Furthermore, according to our belief, the matter of establishing a bank resolution fund into a system law, into the Banking Act. As we understand it, the establishment of such a bank resolution fund was originally conceived within this law. However, the Ministry of Finance, through the preparation of comprehensive legal solutions, has apparently failed to comply with the proposed amendment to the Bank of Slovenia and the other institutions in a timely manner. These delays are not a good passenger for this government. As I have already said, I am running out of time, Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats of this bill will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u57	Your Honors are here! There has been much debate over whether and how to resolve the banking system in recent years. The first measures to preserve the stability of the Slovenian financial system, aimed at bridging doubts about the stability and effectiveness of the Slovenian financial system, were actually adopted by the end of 2008. In 2012, the then government prepared measures to strengthen the stability of banks. We have received the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen banks, which is part of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and the Fund for the Stability of Banks. Last year, we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, which also partially implemented the Directive governing the set of instruments for early detection and intervention in unstable or decaying financial institutions. Such arrangements shall ensure that the losses are taken over by shareholders first and followed by creditors provided that no creditor suffers greater losses than it would have had at the time of the institution’s termination. As is known, these provisions were taken into account and applied when the banking system was repaired at the end of 2013. We therefore have the Banks Stability Fund, which has been established in accordance with the Law on Bank Strengthening Measures of the Republic of Slovenia and is intended only for banks that receive measures under this Act. We also have a directive, which we have already transposed into the Banking Act, and today we have before us a proposal for an Authority Act and a Bank Resolution Fund. The Authority's idea that banks should contribute themselves to the fund to be used for possible recapitalisations is, of course, welcome, especially because there is no need to make additional use of the taxpayer's money in this case. Banks themselves contribute to their resolution. The Bank of Slovenia will set up a resolution fund, which the banking sector would invest in in a fair and proportionate manner, following the proposal of the law that we have on the table today. The resolution fund shall also be established for a certain period of 10 years. To finance bank resolution in the framework of the extraordinary measures imposed by the Bank of Slovenia. A number of dilemmas have arisen on the parent’s working body: the question of guaranteed deposits as movable items and what such a fund means for individual bank depositors; questions about the possible situation if the fund is emptied and spent; and what the status of funds is in line. Then there is the question of responsibility and the status of such a fund, which, by the way, is not a legal person. So, a number of important questions have opened up, we have some, we have not received satisfactory answers to the other. Essentially, what was not answered was why he was in such a hurry to adopt this law. In view of the opinion of the European Central Bank, it is clear that this law is an integral part of the Banking Act, which has been in preparation for some time. We have heard earlier in the introduction that the Government should decide on this law today, so I hope that both the representative of the Government and today the representative of Banka Slovenije will be given an answer, why this part should be excluded from the system law, and perhaps the information that the bank is already waiting for resolution from this newly established fund. In view of all the dilemmas we have not received an answer to, we will decide whether or not we will support the law in our parliamentary group during the debate. I am sorry that we have lost an hour and fifteen minutes to having a competent representative of the Bank of Slovenia among us, although I think that, given the importance of the topic, it would still be right to have the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs Marusha Škopac will move the position of the Mir Cerar Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Madam President! The aim of the bill is to provide appropriate instruments for the effective treatment of banks in difficulty, in particular the establishment of a bank resolution fund as a specific state instrument for the stabilisation of the financial system. By this law, the Government transposes the EU Directive into the legal order of Slovenia, the deadline for implementation of which is the end of this year. The law provides that the Bank of Slovenia will assume the tasks of the resolution authority. At the same time, it is provided for the establishment of a bank resolution fund. This fund will be managed, represented and represented by Banka Slovenije. The funds paid into the fund by the banks represent the investment of the bank. This investment shall be paid to the bank at the time of its liquidation or in the event of the liquidation of the fund. Fund funds will be able to be used to save banks if there is a public benefit to their use. The proposal provides that the Fund’s funds may be used to finance the implementation of exceptional measures, which, under the law governing banking, are expressed by the Bank of Slovenia only if the provision of funds to the Fund in respect of extraordinary measures in each bank is necessary to ensure the stability of the financial system. Here it should be stressed that the funds of this fund should not be used to cover the loss of a bank in difficulty, but only to recapitalise banks when the bank balances have already been cleared. The draft law thus provides an important guarantee for the planned implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia without any new extraordinary burden on bank resolution. The creation of conditions for the application of those acts in the Republic of Slovenia will strengthen the supervision of the operations of banks and their resistance to possible tightened operating conditions, thus strengthening the stability of the economy. In the SMC Group, we welcome the solution whereby banks will have to solve their own problems. The moral risk that the state budget will solve banks is so low. The establishment of the Fund was also welcomed in its opinion by the European Central Bank. It is certainly positive that the proposal further strengthens the position of the holders of the guaranteed applications as it provides for the establishment of a deposit guarantee fund which will have the resources before the need for payment of applications arises. The Banking Act determines the amount of the guaranteed deposit, and now it also provides for a fund to be paid to the savers. The SMC Group will support the proposal for an organ law and a bank resolution fund. The adoption of the law will prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State, since all those measures provide for a secure and robust operating environment of a resilient financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u61	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Vice Governor, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Banks and the rehabilitation of the banking system have already been discussed in the National Assembly, and more have been at the expense of the rehabilitation of the banking system and the use of tax money. Slovenia is the only transition countries in which the banking system had to be repaired for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. About €5 billion a year ago, we rescued Slovenian banks. Then we listened to the words of the then Prime Minister and representatives of the Bank of Slovenia that after this rehabilitation in Europe we have the most sound banks. Then came the stress tests carried out by the European Central Bank, and the two biggest Slovenian system banks failed on these stress tests and six months ago we heard that we have the most healthy banks. Today, in the National Assembly, we again have a proposal for a law that is supposed to help to rehabilitate the banking system. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have already asked a number of questions on the Finance Committee to representatives of the Government, representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we estimate that this law is flawed, it has a number of legal gaps, and last but not least, we have not received answers to the number of questions that we have referred. The key question that we ask ourselves in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this law is why this law is not accompanied by the opinion of the European Central Bank. According to our information, given the European monetary system, without the consent of the European Central Bank, no law should be adopted. According to the information provided to us by representatives of the Ministry of Finance or Bank of Slovenia, the European Central Bank is expected to provide only oral assurance, oral clarification and written opinion within four weeks. In some ways, the Government's proposal was misleading when it gave the opinion of the European Central Bank in relation to the Banking Act, ZBan-2, which has nothing to do with the proposed law that we have on the table today. On the other hand, we wonder why we are in such a hurry, why this law should be adopted so quickly and following an urgent procedure. The fact is that the European Directive provides for similar funds to be set up in Europe by the end of 2016. The fact is that, as this law foresees, none of the countries of the European Union have at the moment. Just for instance. Germany has a plan to establish this fund, has a plan to set up a fund within eight years and also has, I would say, a very different scheme. It has a €20 billion fund plan; at this point, they have collected €400 million, but above all, that this fund will be fueled by bank profits. In Slovenia, however, we predict that this fund will be filled with guaranteed deposits, which means that it will be re-investors or taxpayers, because the fact in Slovenia is that most banks already have nationalised banks. Last week we nationalized the Bank of Celje. The questions we asked were very correct and concrete, but we did not get some answers. The question is why the Association of Banks of Slovenia was not invited to prepare this law. Why weren't banks invited to participate? We have not received a single answer to what the bank's opinion on this law is, what is the opinion of the Association of Banks. Finally, in spite of all the shortcomings that we have received, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that this law is harmful, that it is inadequacy written, that it has a type of legal void and that the adoption of such a law by rapid procedure without any public discussion, without the participation of participants who have contributed here, could be detrimental both to the banking system in Slovenia and to taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u63	Dear Vice President, distinguished guests, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for an Authority Act and a Bank Resolution Fund partially transposes into our legal system an EU directive aimed at transferring the burden of bank resolution to the banking sector itself. The Directive regulates the set of instruments for rapid intervention in an unstable credit institution by ensuring the continuity of its financial and economic functions. Thus, this arrangement ensures that the losses are taken over first by shareholders and creditors of the financial institution and is therefore an essential novelty brought by the proposal for a law on the cessation of the bank resolution fund. It is established and managed by the Bank of Slovenia, which is established for a period of 10 years. The resolution fund is intended to finance bank resolution within the framework of the extraordinary measures taken by the Bank of Slovenia. This introduces the obligation of banks to provide funds to the resolution fund up to 2,3 % of the total of all guaranteed deposits in all banks. Funds for the operation of the Fund shall be provided through the payment of the institution's funds and extraordinary payments of funds. Given that about €15 billion of guaranteed deposits are in Slovenia, the value of the funds to be paid to the €195 million fund and the value of the guarantees would be €150 million. In the event that the bank does not provide or is unlikely to comply with capital adequacy and adequate liquidity requirements in accordance with the law governing banking in the next six months, the Bank of Slovenia shall not require such a bank to pay cash. The fund represents the assets of the banks and the funds paid by the bank to the fund represent the investment of that bank and will be paid to the bank at the time of their liquidation or in the event of the liquidation of the fund. The Fund will thus be financed by contributions from the financial sector and will provide funding for possible bank resolution measures in difficulty. Of course, we all want our banks to operate well and effectively credit the economy and that we should save them as little as possible with taxpayers' money in the future, because we all know well what taxpayers' funds have been spent on the previous banks' rehabilitations. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we will confirm the bill with the hope that it will achieve its purpose and that, in the event of new bank resolution needs, it will, of course, cover this newly established fund and not the state budget or, as a result, at least significantly less resources will go from the state budget to rescue banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u65	Dear Mr. Vice President, the House of Respect! In the United Left, we do not object to the idea of a rescue fund in which commercial banks would contribute proportional shares of funds for counter-crisis measures, but we oppose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, contrary to some other countries, has decided that Banka Slovenije will be given the authority of the bank resolution authority. We oppose this for three reasons. The first is a conflict of interest. The Bank of Slovenia is the body that activates or directs extraordinary measures in the financial sector, which is a prerequisite for the activation of this resolution fund. With this proposal, which we are considering today, Banka Slovenije is still empowered to determine how much and what resources will be contributed to the fund by individual banks. It will determine the investment policy of the Fund operating within it and, most importantly, decide on the use of the Fund in specific cases. While the law provides that the Bank of Slovenia, when acting in the role of the resolution authority, must be separated from that Bank of Slovenia, which acts as the regulatory authority of the financial system. However, this provides for similar declarations of avoidance of conflicts of interest signed by the management of the Slovenian State Holding in good faith by consulting companies representing the Slovenian State Holding company as a seller, on the other hand, they are themselves stakeholders in companies purchasing Slovenian companies. In short, this law gives Banka Slovenije new powers and the principle of separation is just a cosmetic supplement and we cannot take it seriously. The second reason why we object to the fact that Banka Slovenije has powers is that it is undemocratic. The Bank of Slovenia is supposed to be an independent institution, which means that it is independent of citizens, but not of stakeholders who control the financial sector. Let me remind you that the leadership of the Bank of Slovenia does not correspond to any democratically elected body, nor can it be influenced or replaced by the National Assembly. And since in the United Left we oppose the exercise of power by non-democratic institutions, we also oppose increasing their powers. The third reason why we oppose this is the past operation of the Bank of Slovenia. If I recall just a few cases, in the gambling period between 2006 and 2008, Banka Slovenije did absolutely nothing to limit banks' borrowing abroad and the growth of loans in the economy and to prevent overheating of the economy. The losses of Slovenian banks and companies we are facing today are largely due to the pre-crisis situation that the Bank of Slovenia has not stopped but has even accelerated. Secondly, in spring 2010, the Bank of Slovenia, one year in front of other euro area countries, tightened capital adequacy requirements. This triggered a capital upheaval that has lasted for the fifth year and is one of the main causes of job losses and another recession. Thirdly, in December 2013, the Bank of Slovenia ordered the recapitalisation of banks and the leasing of small shareholders and holders of subordinated bonds, for which it is likely that citizens will be paid compensation someday. Fourthly, Banka Slovenije also participated in stress tests published in October this year, and also in this case allowed Slovenia to be considered practically the most stringent of all European countries and therefore the results of stress tests for Slovenian banks were extremely unfavourable. Last time, the Bank of Slovenia is also responsible for decisions on which claims will be transferred to the DUTB and with what discounts, and as far as I know, the DUTB has not yet fulfilled its mandate. Despite 3.5 billion Euros of funds allocated from the budget to the bad bank, plus state guarantees, the credit crunch has not been released. On the contrary, credits have fallen by 26.53% this year. That's September's data. If I conclude, because neither the National Assembly nor the Government have the right mechanisms to control the operation of the Bank of Slovenia, but only to direct the operation, and because the responsibility for the situation is not explained, the same people and mentality remain in the Bank of Slovenia, the law which will add additional powers to the Bank of Slovenia, which will also enter into a conflict of interest, we will not and cannot support in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. McKinley. Franz Križanič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats and apologize for the order of affairs at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u67	Dearly-respected, distinguished guests, well-respected high choir! Following the role played by the test rabbit in 2013 and 2014, Slovenia earmarked between 3.5 billion and 5 billion taxpayers for the rehabilitation of the banking system. As a result, the deficit of 14.6% of gross domestic product last year increased, 10.1% of the points went into the recapitalisation account, which apparently increased the public debt – the minister talks about 30 billion already. In October this year, the results of the new stress tests showed that two banks, NLB and NKBM, would show a lower capital deficit, despite a large recapitalisation of EUR 65 million. This is to be covered on its own by state profits and without recapitalisation. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are critical of the forecast of possible new recapitalisations of banks. The forecasts come from the types of bankers and appeared after the presentation of stress tests. After more than 3,5 billion to 5 billion injections, which would require a precondition for the recovery of the financial system, this would then be a prerequisite for the release of the credit crunch, which would be a prerequisite for recovery of economic activity, we find that this logical sequence is missing. According to Banka Slovenije, the credit crunch continues, there is nothing happening in the area of the acceleration of the candidature, even new conditions are being announced, the economy is to be restructured, it is to reach the level that it does not need credit at all, and then, in fact, it would be willing to lend banks. Of course, money lies and data from Banka Slovenije, which is probably one of our best statistical publications in this area – this institution also has its own good sides – show that they lie in the short term plasmas of business banks and central banks abroad. In the Group of Social Democrats, we share the concern about the state's public finances, as this leaves difficult consequences for the social image of society as a whole. Therefore, in order to avoid similar scenarios as we have seen at the end of last year, we note that banks themselves must ensure that business risks are adequately covered and take responsibility for the resolution of possible capital deficits themselves. The role of the State should be limited only to ensuring an appropriate mechanism to encourage banks to do so. In our opinion, the proposed bank resolution law with this fund is the first and appropriate step in establishing a legal framework that will relieve the budget and, consequently, taxpayers in similar cases in the future. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly pointed out that the obligation to invest banks in a new resolution fund could constitute an intervention in the constitutionally protected freedom of economic initiative. This may be limited only if the public benefit is shown and complies with the principle of proportionality. Since the proposed solution is legal and, of course, is the Ministry of Finance or Government, in line with the Bank of Slovenia and based on the European Directive, the Social Democrats hope that it is also judicious. Finally, the European Central Bank gave a positive assessment of this solution after the Secretary of State has assured it. In the Social Democrats Group, we have expressed some concerns about the legal subjectivity of the bank resolution fund and how to manage it, the solution to the Fund being managed by the Bank of Slovenia, there is no dispute for us, and more questions have been raised regarding the provision that the fund does not have a legal personality and that the manager, Bank of Slovenia says, bears no responsibility for the operation of the fund. We obtained some of the answers by explaining the bill's proponent, and we entered part of the answers or part of the solutions by introducing amendments to the coalition or amendments that have already been adopted on the committee. However, we expect practice to show that the Bank of Slovenia will still manage this fund on the principle of a good master. Finally, we hope that the fund will not serve as an abuse of any other profitable and secure Slovenian bank. Those who have received aid are now recapitalised, have too much capital, cannot generate profitability in this capital, continue to reduce credit to the economy at a given scale, and are on the "eater" of different takers, and takeovers at a very "reasonable price" far below [[sign for the end of the debate]] the value of these banks. Social Democrats will support this law with coalition amendments if they show up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the article and the two amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Allow only a warning before the debate. Gentlemen mag. I'm informing Janez Fabian that he has the status of representative of the government here, so please, when he wishes to speak for the word that he will do it by raising his hand and your time goes by the time that he belongs to the government. So I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u69	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I have a procedural proposal. In view of the fact that the meeting of the National Assembly, after considerable suffering, was joined by the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, in view of the fact that there was no Governor or Vice-Governor on the Committee on Finance, that there were a number of questions that we did not get answers to, and some of which we also warned in the position, I would suggest that the Vice-Governor give some answers or some clarification in relation to this proposed law, and that we do not start with the amendment immediately. I think it is also in the interest of the Bank of Slovenia, both in the interest of the proposer, that both Members and the general public take note of the details of this proposed law and try to answer some questions that have not been answered by the Committee on Finance and the issues that have been raised today in the position of certain groups of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u70	Mag. Thank you very much. I have put in the debate article 14 and the amendment, but Mr Vice-Governor has raised his hand immediately and I think he will probably say something more widespread about the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Janez Fabian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are sorry, but today we received an invitation at 11.30 a.m. to Banka Slovenije, the Governor is on his way to Frankfurt, also Vice-Governor Bohnec. The colleague who covered this area is unfortunately in the hospital, but we do not avoid any responsibility. There were three of our experts on the committee who were preparing the law. Of course, we do not think that Europe is forcing us into this law in time, but we have prepared a comprehensive Banking Act, as you know, and at least this moment, which is partly coordinated after the rehabilitation of banks, the restructuring of the economy, and then the consolidation of public finances, which follows and which efforts you have made with the fiscal rule, is in the context of the fact that, for the first time, it actually says and starts out clearly and loudly that no more tax money is used. We know that a number of issues are raised by banks that are legitimate and, of course, also by their Czech associations as interest associations, but also as supervisor, we believe that this part of the law must be adopted as soon as possible, of course also part of the Guarantee Scheme Act as well as the Credit Register, and that those two parts will wait for the whole law. So, the key argument is no longer the taxpayer's money in the banking system, the bank's liability at the final instance of their management. This does not mean that at the moment there is any bad situation in the banking system; vice versa. We've reached stabilisation, deposits are growing in large state banks, confidence has returned. What is worrying is that the decline in credit growth has not yet been halted or increased by credit growth, but that is also the reason for the indebtedness of the non-financial sector, businesses, where success has been achieved, I must say this. Over the last year and a half, banks, together with the Banks Association under the principles of restructuring in the context of the amendment of the insolvency law, have already reached – almost 36 and 30 have already signed them, and six other agreements are under way in large business systems, which means a lot of financial stability, that is, for example, over 300 million would be potentially almost tax revenues, could be once again in bankruptcy, that is, large stabilisation for their interconnected economies, for their suppliers, for their customers. Further efforts will be made in the direction of medium and small restructuring companies. The European Commission, as well as the International Monetary Fund, has recently asked the Bank of Slovenia to continue to be proactive in this area. We are preparing, we have sent guidelines to banks because they are also preparing countercyclical action. Where there is already success in restructuring, which is reflected in the improvement of monetary flows, of course we will also work counter-cyclically with weaknesses and reservations. There will be a reduction in the pressure on the bank's capital. We hope that this will also accelerate the halting of credit growth and, of course, start the Bank with these processes, we are forcing them to be close to the committees and that they know the committees that the location is, of course, now money with a lower risk for productive purposes in support of economic growth. [[…]] There was also a question of conflicts of interest. We are also clearing this issue inside the house, how we will separate the rescue fund and our asset management. So far, Banka Slovenije has managed its investments well. The result is that we have paid over 300 million profits in the budget over all these years. To pay it regularly each year, even to a greater extent in recent years, and this is also the right thing to do — as stipulated by the law. Banka Slovenije, leadership is responsible under the Law on Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly and the Special Committee. As we say, we believe that this step is consistent and must be done as soon as possible by the State, the Republic of Slovenia, and that we will solve operational matters with banks together. We think it's a viable scheme. Some questions are also in the way of payment: according to the German model it is truly successful, but at this point our banks have great liquidity. In Banka Slovenije, they hold a billion 200 million a day at a negative interest rate; it is said that the money they have in our country is even paid interest on that money. On the other hand, the country has great liquidity. This is not an effect of economic recovery, and this is a key element of bank responsibility for lending, and this element of the early adoption of this part of the law in this context is therefore of paramount importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. It's a cakemaker. Procedural? Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you, President, for your word. I now welcome this part, which the vice-governor has decided to give certain answers to, but I would also like to take this opportunity with regard to the procedural question or the procedural procedure, which is an important matter, and I would really like to ask the respectable vice-governor that any question or important matters that have been raised today also in the positions of the members of the groups, so that, finally, it will be easier to decide whether or not we will support this law or not to support it to answer key questions for me. Why is this law so urgent, why is this law necessary and why it is not left in the proposal, as it was at the beginning, that this fund remains within the framework of the Banking Act or the ZBan-2. Another important question – what is the opinion of the European Central Bank? Why did you give the committee an opinion that was in connection with the prepared Banking Act, ZBan-2? When will the European Central Bank's opinion on this law to be adopted today? And is it permissible for the National Assembly or the Government to propose this law without the opinion of the European Central Bank? Second, why did you choose such a scheme? The fact is, this fund will have to be filled within three months. I have already highlighted the case of Germany; Germany has spent eight years here, three months here. Why did you decide that this fund would be filled with guaranteed deposits? We know, in here, that Germany will somehow try to recharge this fund from profit and also in connection with the balance sheet amount of the banks. Why didn't you decide on a similar matter with us? Or that only a few of these matters would be paid in relation to the balance sheet amount? I am interested in which two banks or banks in Slovenia will not have to contribute to this fund. Why was the Association of Banks or Banks not invited to prepare this law? I would like to know what the opinion of the Association of Banks of Slovenia and individual banks is today on this bill – which will have to be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, Secretary of State, applied for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. In view of the questions raised in the presentation of the opinions of the groups, I would like to provide some explanations or answers to these questions. First of all, why did the government submit this proposal to the law following an emergency procedure, or more specifically, why it is in a hurry? We said: the deadline for implementing the directive is 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The deadline under the directive for this fund to be filled is longer. The Government and the Central Bank have assessed that it makes sense to establish a mechanism and a bank resolution fund as soon as possible in order to effectively ensure the performance of its function. The way this fund is being replenished is also envisaged in a different way from that of some other European countries. In our case, it is suggested that the full fund with applications be calculated according to the methodology shown here. For example, in Germany, which has been repeatedly referred, banks pay this out of their profits. That is why it takes longer to do so and these solutions are all within the permissible solutions imposed by the European Directive. How does the European Central Bank feel? We have already explained in the introduction that these solutions were initially provided for in the System Act, the Banking Act, and that this is an important system law, which the Government would consider irresponsible to invest in a rapid procedure, but that the law will be introduced through a regular procedure in which all stakeholders will be able to influence solutions to the newly completed system regime on the functioning of banking and all the risks that arise in banking. However, for this part alone, which concerns the protection of the budget against any additional need to engage the budget to ensure the stability of the financial system, it assessed that it is already necessary in implementing the 2015 budget. This is said to prevent any other problem that may arise from being solved in a similar way or in the same way as has been ensured for the resolution of banks in the current period. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has obtained a positive opinion from the European Central Bank on the Banking Act and in this part also on the solutions proposed in this Act. Otherwise, as regards the consent of the European Central Bank, it is not necessary to consult on the provisions and to obtain agreement at work when it comes to the transposition of directives, since the Directives have already been subject to consultation in the context of the drafting processes of the Directives. The ECB is also not concerned with the title of the law, but with the content of the law, so that we also have an opinion from legal experts within the Government, that the ECB has already given its consent to these solutions proposed by this law, within the framework of the agreement to intervene the Banking Act and that these procedures do not need to be repeated before the European Central Bank. Then I would like to make an explanation of the question raised by Mrs Bratuška, which is also a very important substantive issue – the difference between the bank resolution fund and the bank stability fund. The Banks Stability Fund is set out in the Bank Stability Measures Act and represents the dedicated assets of the DUTB, a bad bank, and is used in this function and has a second purpose, and in fact has the purpose of actively managing the bad investments of banks and that these poor investments are carried out in a way that will allow for the greatest possible recovery of those funds that the State has committed to disposing of bad assets from the bank and to ensure the maximum possible recovery of funds that the State has invested in the bad bank, while at the same time effectively restructuring. So there's no connection between these two funds. However, as regards these elements, which were very exposed in the work of the Parliamentary Committee, regarding the legal personality of the Fund, also with regard to possible conflicts of interest – the solutions presented by the proposal of the law in fact provide for a fund which is a kind of special fund, a sui generis fund established on the basis of this law does not have a legal personality, does not have that legal personality and does not fully operate by the Bank of Slovenia. Our assessment is that in this part there is no conflict between the powers of the Bank of Slovenia as the regulator of the banking and financial system in the Republic of Slovenia and as the manager of this fund, because there are also appropriate mechanisms that provide primarily for the autonomy of the fund, as regards the use or management of its assets, so that these systems of control and management of the fund are fully separated here. In doing so, I think that at least this is the main issue that we have made clear. There's always the question of why he's in a hurry to hide something. Once again, this fund is a buffer to protect the state budget, to protect taxpayers, to establish a mechanism that is fully in line with the European Directive, to take account of certain Slovenian specifics and to pursue the objective of establishing this fund quickly and that the Fund also works effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate and I'm asking you to sign up. The first reported is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Vice Governor, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think there is still some confusion about this law, and above all, the main question is why we are in such a hurry. In fact, the issue is constantly emerging, as we adopted the Budget Implementation Act yesterday, and we were talking about claims where we talked about one claim that should not have been discussed, we are probably talking about some entity that is hiding behind this fund today. The Finance and Monetary Policy Committee was mentioned in this case by the Gorenje Bank. So, now that we have actually recapitalised the New Bank of Ljubljana, the New Bank of Maribor, the Bank of Albania, we will now be Banka Celje; in short, all the banks have already set up a fund to pay off or recapitalise a smaller bank. This issue is always present and the question is also raised why it is so late. The answer will be that the Directive should be adopted by 31. 12. Implement; but, see, this fund is not meant at some point to do some ad hoc action and prepare something, but as in Germany, it is supposed to represent some continuity, some stability and so on. In short, there is a constant shadow that this is being prepared for one bank and that it is now such a story, which is why it is also so hasty, because even if we are talking about charging this fund, it would not really be so or should not be so hasty. The second question is what this will mean for business banks that will invest some of the guaranteed deposits in this fund. This is a total amount of 2,3 %, divided into 1,3 % and then 1%. Here is now the question of who will actually invest in this fund – probably not all foreign banks, especially those that have business units here and sister banks probably do, which means that it is not a complete solidarity between banks, but some banks will still be in a different position – and how it affects the organisational structure of these banks. In fact, if a bank does not invest in this fund, because it has a business unit here, it is a large foreign bank, for example, we also have a relatively large bank, which does not have a sister company here, it will now be able to change the organisational structure for other banks, and they will simply not have to pay into this fund. And the question that will arise here is whether they will eventually invest exclusively in this fund of domestic banks, which are, in one way or another, recapitalised with tax money; which means that tax money goes back into this fund through business banks; which means that it is some kind of spinning of this money. Here is the question which foreign bank will not pay into this fund. Tell me which foreign bank! Who has a business unit here and doesn't have a sister's business if she doesn't pay. And what will this mean for the other banks and the other investors? Will everyone eventually have such an organizational form that it will not be necessary to participate in this fund? In fact, even the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank or the New Credit Bank can be arranged, so this customer will have a business unit here and, of course, this fund will not get this money. There is this probability that this is actually happening on the market, and now we don't have any calculation here if we look at this law. What does that mean for the bank balance sheet? What does this mean now that we will put 2.3% of this money into some fund, and what does this mean for the existing balance sheet? We have already talked about this on the Committee on Finance, where we have come up with some loss of the present and then in short, what it actually means. [[…]] Now the point of this fund, of course, is that it would be aid, but this aid will now amount to 195 million at five billion or three billion — whatever it is — which we have already put in banks, and this is actually a trifle. I'm sorry to talk about these millions and billions, but with banks it's relatively small money and probably some bank will get some money out of it, not because it would just be a bank, but because there will be no more money and it will have to come up with the state budget again if anything happens. So these are the substantive questions, or, if you want, economic questions, what's actually going to happen here. The second is, of course, a legal issue and the legal entity of this fund, etc. And who represents him in court. We believe that in practice there can be significant unacceptable things and here is the question for the Vice Governor – why does Banka Slovenije not want to accept the coverage of all the liabilities of this fund? In fact, somewhere in the law or in the law it says that Banka Slovenije is not responsible for the obligations of this fund. Hello! I mean, there's something weird here right now. Why does Banka Slovenije not want to assume the guarantee of an obligation in this law, because Banka Slovenije could write this? Or, normally, if Banka Slovenije does everything with this fund, determine the organisational structure, determine the content of what will be done, everything, everything will be determined, and, on the other hand, the law explicitly states – no, but we will not worry about the obligations. And who's gonna care now? Who's that now? In the end, it's probably the taxpayers again. At the time of the vice-governor’s appearance, it is of course worrying that banks today have 1.2 billion and that money is spinning at a negative rate – probably not being invested anywhere – but that money lies somewhere, or that the European Central Bank no longer lends such interest. And then, in fact, the sense and measures taken by Banka Slovenije to do so – because here we cannot say that Banka Slovenije is the one who said, "Look, ladies and gentlemen bankers, you need so much and so many billion fresh money to recapitalise." And now the banks have this money, they have it in their accounts, they're all happy, and they're going to end up making some ten-million-dollar profits -- they're putting it in public -- because it's very brave. But look, it's not the bank's purpose now to give you billions, and then they make 10 million profits, and they're all happy. Was it now the purpose of these banks to serve their own purpose or purpose to have buildings, employees, and so on? And maybe they're still accepting some kind of deposit from some natural person, but what more do these banks not do? Are these measures of the Bank of Slovenia then effective? With so much recapitalisation, if we are talking today, and now, of course, this fund, etc., if the banks are not doing their actual role. I'm afraid it's a measure like that and it's 2.3% and I'm afraid it's still, whatever it says in there, more or less, or it's done for a bank right now. But here there is no calculation, sorry, ladies and gentlemen, we did not get one calculation of what this actually means for the Slovenian banking system. Neither for individual banks nor for which banks will include I would like to have a list of banks to pay and a list of banks that will not pay, including business units, because they will then be competitively advantageous on the market. [[…]] And of course, what about the market? So I think that also that the opinion given by the ECB was given to another document, it was given to the Banking Act, which at the time also contained the provisions of this law, then it was all out and now we have made some new law probably added something to this law and I would not take that opinion very seriously, because it was given to another document and the question is, I will say how this opinion was given. [[…]] We are on the committee about oral opinions, someone has called the ECB and so on; look, this is not for the law and this is not for the National Assembly. Look, I think it's unfortunate to rush here, and I'm afraid it's also completely unnecessary, and I'm afraid that in two or three months we're going to have to deal with this law or the amendments to this law again, and I'm afraid that maybe in six months or nine months the effects of this fund will have to be fixed, and then the government will come back here and say that it didn't go well. But I'd rather think about it, because nothing will happen at this time, I'd rather do what it takes for one law to do, including calculations, effects and so on, not only formally, what it takes to bring the law into the National Assembly, but actually how it will work. Of course, then we could have all of this, and we could actually say, after all, that this is a good option for us to adopt this law here. And they would have accepted him there with some conscience that because of this marriage, because of this fund, it would be something better. I don't even know if Banka Slovenije knows all the consequences because of legal questions that arise here, what happens when this fund goes into the bank, and that money will go down, and who will then be responsible, and Banka Slovenije is not responsible and so on. Look, here are the theoretical cases that need to be overplayed, so to speak, both legal and economic and financial. But it's not done. That is why I have great reservations, and given the way and the way we actually got here, while with regard to the fund itself, and that this must be arranged in this way – against this, but this is actually unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, Secretary of State, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u79	Dear Mr Šircelj, the assumption that nothing will happen in 2015, requires very, very much, I would say, a thorough weighing. We have certainly stressed that the Fund is being set up to establish a risk buffer that may occur. What risks may arise is also highly dependent on external circumstances. On the Committee itself, it was said that certain measures taken by the Bank of Slovenia and the requirements to establish their capital adequacy were injected and the orders of the Bank of Slovenia were in force, but something else might arise. Once again, the only purpose of this law being tabled in an emergency procedure is for the Government to avoid any budgetary burden from any heading related to ensuring the stability of the banking system. The opinion of the European Central Bank has already been given on the same content and we have explained why we think that matter has been graduated. As regards mathematics itself and the obligations for bank contributions to this fund, this is defined in section 14 of the Act. The formula is as follows: the basis for calculating the contribution is the liabilities of all banks reduced by subordinated liabilities and reduced further for guaranteed deposits, divided by the total sum of all liabilities of banks. This is said to be not only a contribution from the amount of the guaranteed deposits or that it is only an element for the calculation, but the basic element of the calculation is the liabilities of the banks and then the contribution of each individual bank is calculated. However, as regards branches of a foreign bank, the foreign bank’s branch with the foreign bank’s daughter or legal entity established by a foreign bank in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is in some way flat-rate. According to the European Directive, payments are actually exempt, or the law must not impose payments on this fund for branches of foreign banks because they do not have legal personality in the territory where they operate, but their founder or legal entity acting in the field of the European Union is responsible for all their obligations. While foreign banks, which have established their legal entities licensed here in Slovenia under the Banking Act, will pay for this contribution, as will all domestic banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, for these answers. See, I would only ask if either you or the vice-governor can list branches of foreign banks in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Is that procedural? There's no replica because you haven't discussed it yet. Not with the article yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u83	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Now I would really ask both the Secretary of State and the Vice-Governor to answer one of the important questions explicitly and specifically. Which banks will not contribute to this fund? From this reply of the Secretary of State, I did not understand whether it was only banks in Slovenia, which are the branches of identity, or also foreign banks established in Slovenia as daughters. This is a very important question. For on the committee we have received such a half-response that this law assumes that only two branches in Slovenia should be paid this fund. You had one week to study this matter or to prepare an answer. Now I really demand: Which banks that operate with the permission of the Bank of Slovenia in Slovenia will not have to be paid into this fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije mag has the floor. Andrei Fabian. Janez Fabian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Just a specific answer. Your Honor! Of course, Factor and Probank will not be paid, logically due to the status, and then all branches that are BKS, Brüll, the Banks and RCI; these are four – very small shares. All other large foreign banks here have deposits and will all be paid into a fund similar to domestic banks. We have an afternoon meeting, we already have an investment policy here, investment policy rules, in particular with banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Here you go. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u87	Look, Mr. Vice President and my colleagues, I apologize, but we have a very important matter ahead of us. If I understand the vice-governor correctly, this means Probank, Factor Bank according to Article 14, which assumes, according to the situation in their banks and banks in Slovenia So the subsidiaries in foreign ownership in Slovenia are obliged to pay for this fund. I want to ask you a very important question. Given that we have nationalised banks in Slovenia, mostly under 100% state ownership – last week we also received Banka Slovenije – this means that we will indirectly pay taxpayers the main funds in this fund. Now, given that there are some banks in Slovenia that are foreign-owned as daughters; if these banks are in trouble, foreign daughters – will they be justified to use these funds from the fund?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Of course, this was not procedural. I'd like you to sign up for a debate. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you. If I sum up the Government's argument, why rush with this bill, it goes something like this. After all, no country has ever introduced such an institution into its national legal order, but we are still in a hurry. If I continue with the words of the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government, which I believe will be appointed today by the Government as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, it is one of the reasons for the Government to rush through this non-systemic law, including the fact that our financial arrangements with January 1st should be armed with possible dangers of a new financial collapse. But with this, the Secretary of State only acknowledges that until now the recapitalisation has not been successful, that obviously the Government is fighting, which, of course, has additional information, as we have here in the National Assembly and as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that Slovenia is obviously threatened by a new wave of financial crisis caused by bad claims in banks. And here we are today on the first illogicality of such a proposal. In the introduction, the Secretary of State presented the Government's intention to amend the Banking Act. This directive also calls for the amendment of the Banking Act, while at the same time it comes with a non-systemic measure by ad hoc law, in order to appease the public if from now on you are safe taxpayers: the government has taken care of you, now the banks will bear the errors or consequences of their mistakes. This is where we come up with some other illogicality. The government is run by a graduate lawyer who has always stressed the importance of the rule of law and the proper application of law to govern the country, and every time we get an opinion from the rule of law in the new law proposed by that government, we are surprised at how badly this government takes into account the principles of the rule of law. Let me point out just a few words that the Parliamentary Legislative and Legal Service has written in this bill. He says: "With the proposed arrangement, in our opinion, it interferes with the assets of banks. The proposed regulation could therefore, according to our assessment, constitute an intervention in a free economic initiative." Next: "How will Banka Slovenije ensure the efficient management of the funds of the bank resolution fund? There are no defined criteria and conditions. Further: "The solutions proposed therefore cause fragmentation of the banking regime, which results in a reduction of transparency and the understanding of the legal regime, which creates legal certainty, makes it difficult for the addressees whose rights are governed by the rules to understand their legal position, which relates to the second article of the Constitution." Let us move forward with the illogicality of this proposal. Let us recall the Minister of the Ministry of Finance, who announced at the hearing a move in the mindset of the Ministry of Finance, which is to take care in tandem or with the Ministry of Economy to improve the competitive situation on the market. To this end, it is intended to create a particularly better competitive environment, as, according to Minister Marble, only the improvement of the competitive situation in the country is intended to enable or enable improvement of the situation in the country. And today the government comes with a proposal before the National Assembly with some kind of beauty, if from now on the banks will hide their reckless decisions, which at first seems to be very attractive, but everything is more than that. Earlier, colleague Pogačnik mentioned this fact that in Slovenia we have the majority of the banking market or space in the hands of banks owned by nationalised banks. Indirectly, therefore, the costs will be borne by taxpayers. Moreover, such a fund introduces new administrative obstacles to the functioning of banks, new fiscal requirements for the operations of banks. The Government is also aware of this, so the draft law itself stated the following: "Banks can transfer increased costs to customers or shareholders by reducing interest rates on positions, by increasing interest rates on loans and bank commissions or by reducing income from equity." So the minister, who spoke earlier about the need to improve the competitive situation in the country, now says that banks will have higher costs because of this fund, but can in any way pass it on to their committees either by increasing the cost of borrowing, or by lowering interest rates on positions, or by raising bank fees. Somehow I'm not doing this with the image of Minister Marble at that hearing and what we get every day at the Parliamentary table. As far as I'm concerned. I think that one of the speakers has already mentioned that you are transferring responsibility to the Bank of Slovenia, but that you are not responsible because this bill explicitly states in Article 5 that the Bank of Slovenia and the Bank are not responsible for the obligation of the Fund. You transfer power or authority to the Bank of Slovenia. Now here's an extremely interesting factor. Banka Slovenije is the institution or one of those institutions that have been most secretive at the time of the banking and financial crisis; an institution that has not responded is an institution that has always come forward too late. And this is also an institution that has not been elected and is named and, say, the other two branches or executive branches or the legislative branch of authority has no influence on it in the interim period; and now this institution, which is one of the key contributors to the depth of the crisis that we have in Slovenia, is also given new powers. And we're already in the fifth illogical state. Previously, you intimidated us by how urgently this is necessary, so that the country would have the appropriate instruments for a possible new wave of the banking or financial crisis. In a way, you've already predicted this. Now we know that bad loans in banks are growing again. The country has deposited 3.5 billion euros in banks, and now it is setting up a fund that will weigh up to 350 million euros; that is, a tenth of what has already fallen into banks. A dozen of these, therefore, are guaranteed that the banking system will be stable from now on. If 3.5 billion wasn't enough, how do we make sure 350 million is enough? I think my colleagues have already discussed in more detail what caused our amendment. What banks? We want credibility and a clear picture of which banks will invest, how much they will invest and which banks will not need under the discretionary rights of the Bank of Slovenia, as set out in this Article 14 of the Act, so that the public can be directly informed of how Banka Slovenije performs this function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I would like to answer only one question, which is always repeated in the debates when we are talking about Slovenian banks. Always, especially on the right, comes this myth that in Slovenia banks need to be recapitalised because they are state-owned, but in fact they would only raise a slight controversy in this regard. First time. All countries in the West practically had to recapitalise banks after the financial markets broke. Another time. Countries with state-owned banks such as India, Costa Rica, China, etc. have not recapitalised the bank. Why not? Because it has nothing to do with state property, but with the financial crisis. Third time. We have banks like Banka Celje, Banka, Factor Bank, Probank that are privately owned were recapitalised by the state. Fourth time. Why did we have to recapitalize the banks? This is where we need to look first and foremost at the pre-crisis situation. In fact, if we compare Slovenia with multi-urban countries, i.e. Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, which are usually referred to as examples of good practice which had already privatised banks and allegedly there was no need for recapitalisation. There is no correlation here because the difference between Slovenia and these countries is that these countries did not enter the euro area at the time. In these countries, the debt development model was not launched in the same way as in Slovenia, Greece, Portugal, Spain and the debt development model, in order for banks to be heavily indebted abroad, in order even to encourage this by encouraging managers' buy-ins, by building motorways or by issuing early repayment bonds. In fact, overheating the economy before the crisis is the main reason why we have a hole in banks and businesses today, not that banks are state-owned. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Do you still want to talk about it? I'm asking you to sign up. A replica? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u93	Dear fellow moon! I suggest you read a little bit of the statements made by the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the resolution of the banking system. Dear Mr Luka Mesec, I suggest you read a little bit about what is happening to banks around the world and across Europe. The fact is, for the second time, Slovenia, the only one of the transition countries, has saved banks at the expense of taxpayers. It holds your information that during the banking crisis in 2008 and 2009, some European countries also helped private banks, but you forgot to mention only one case. In Germany, the Commerzbank returned all the funds to the German state within one year, together with interest. Are we ever going to get the money back in Slovenia? I don't think so. If the Slovenian banks were privatised, this would be the burden of taxpayers. You've been exposing the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia. Look at the results of the stress tests on these banks. The fact is that there was a bank crisis in the Czech Republic in 1999, then the measure was to privatise banks, but today the Czech banking system is one of the most healthy in Europe. For what? Because the regulator in the Czech Republic has established clear mechanisms that, despite the fact that banks in the Czech Republic are foreign-owned, their daughters are unable to pay profits to their mothers. Such a measure could also be taken by the Bank of Slovenia. I wonder, here we have forever pointed out that we are interested – who is responsible for the system or for the situation in the Slovenian banking system? Has the regulator, the Bank of Slovenia, done enough in recent years? Why did the then government of Borut Pahor recapitalise these banks in 2008 and 2009, when the crisis was known in the Slovenian banking system?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I only asked for the floor because the debate on the amendment to Article 14 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members is now under way. I would like to point out that the Government did not wish to introduce any lack of transparency in this marriage project, so that these proposals proposed in this amendment will not be opposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I see that interest is in the debate. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that the debate should, in principle, take place around the amendment to a certain article, I would nevertheless propose - although in a way to some extent I welcome the fact that there is a slightly broader debate, as this gives a slightly broader opportunity to make some opinions and questions - but I would still ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we should discuss this amendment to Article 14, that those discussing it, at least Article 14, should be defined either by the amendment or by the amendment and that, nevertheless, at least to some extent, the debate that is already very far beyond this, which should be discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. However, we were mentioned, so I have to take this. Because I couldn't give a replica because I haven't had a discussion yet, but I have time to report, I've used the institute of debate. As early as 2009, Pahor's government had prepared – I think 250 million recapitalisations of the Ljubljana Bank – to increase the security of the institution, but under the regime, this recapitalisation with subordinated instruments belonging to track 1 was not feasible. Therefore, these assets, which we had as deposits deposited in the bank, were still to be presented as a deposit, but not as a subordinate instrument that would be considered more capital adequacy. When Banka Slovenije made a request, I think that with about 400 million, something more, we went to recapitalisation. We went very fast. And look at the case where it was completed, two months, three months after that, and this requirement for additional capital adequacy began, which then led to a credit crunch with chain effect. The beginning is exactly known, this is July 2010, of this procedure. This banking crisis is artificial, it's not a financial crisis, it's a regulatory crisis, it's a regulation of a newer type. The fact that it was before has caused some instability, but because of the great power of our economy, its export orientation, the surpluses it creates, that crisis was manageable. The banks have also been exposed to the interbank market in the short term; when these assets withdrew from the market, the State entered as a depositary. It's still going on. There is no other solution if it wants to provide sufficient credit activity to maintain the conjuncture. And the rest of it just happens by some logic that has to have some background. Because if it were a mistake — it is possible to make a human error, but then we wouldn’t keep repeating it all the time, then we would have a credit boom right now. However, it is not necessarily going to happen because the first optimistic news in this area was last week that the banks did, I think, draw 700 million from the European Central Bank for Economic Loans. This can mean a significant shift to even faster economic growth next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u101	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! In part, I agree with the comment made by my colleague Christmas that we are not discussing this amendment, but I think it is such an important matter, and given that today there is a vice-governor, which I welcome, it is probably in the interests of both the coalition Members and the opposition Members that we get a little more information on the proposed law. You were also a member of the Committee on Finance, and you know that the questions were concrete and the answers were very weak. Before focusing on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, I would really like to ask the vice-governor to try to answer those questions that I asked him in particular regarding the daughters in Slovenia. For example, if a daughter gets into trouble, will she be entitled to these funds from the fund? Of course, the question is now being asked. The fund is set up for a purpose; therefore, it is established to help banks in difficulty, which is also provided for in the European Union Directive. It is true that this is until 2016, but I have another question to which we also have not received an answer on the Committee on Finance. This fund will be set up, the funds will be paid – what if we get into a situation where one, two or three banks will get in trouble and these funds will have to be drawn from the fund? Hypothetically, if the fund is emptied — what happens then? In the explanations given by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Bank of Slovenia, this law provides that banks should be obliged to pay one-off amounts to this fund – explicitly this is not written anywhere in the law. It only says 2,3 % of the guaranteed deposits, it does not say that this is a unique amount. Now I'm more interested in what, in the case, we hypothetically speak when the fund is empty. So once the fund is emptied, whether this fund goes out or then a new fact occurs, a new moment after which the banks will be called back – given that the fund has been emptied – that the funds have to be paid to the fund. Personally, I still think that when the coalition explains that this is a great solution, or as Dr. Križanič said on the Committee on Finance that this is a modern resolution of the banking system, given that most banks in Slovenia are now nationalised – I suppose another bank will be nationalised within six months – this will indirectly be tax money. What will be the impact of these payments on the balance sheet fund held by 100 % of the state-owned banks and on the budget? The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled these two amendments primarily on the basis of transparency and because we estimate that it will be tax money, that the general public must also be informed. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has said that the Government is in principle in favour of these two amendments. But given that Banka Slovenije is responsible for this fund, that Banka Slovenije is also the one to manage and manage this fund under the law, I am interested in the opinion of Banka Slovenije on these two amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I estimate that it is right to add to the legal provision that Banka Slovenije is obliged to inform the general public within three days, how much of these funds have been paid, whose banks have paid the funds to which banks under Article 14 do not have to pay these funds, and not least that Banka Slovenije is then also informed to the public when these funds are used from this fund. This refers to paragraphs 14 and 15 of this amendment. On the one hand, I have said that I am pleased that the Secretary of State has said that in principle the Government supports this decision, but there is no guarantee that these amendments will be confirmed. That is why I am particularly interested in the voting apparatus by the coalition Members as to how it will decide. We have one experience since last week, when the Secretary of State was also willing to disclose the name of claims in the Committee on Finance, and more about the law we discussed yesterday, but you have decided against it. Now I wonder, today with the coalition MPs: Will the government support something, or will you again get instructions from the outside world that the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party should not be supported?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you. The word is given by the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije mag. Janez Fabjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Let me give you a quick answer. As far as the amendments are concerned, we support the fact that if the law imposes this on us, of course we will absolutely support this transparency. About the daughter of foreign banks. Shareholdings will be the same as domestic banks, but, of course, ownership is the one that first burdens. So, the capital of the owners is the one that is being charged first, and only then is the rescue. The same is true for ours – the principle of absolute priority, as in insolvency law. Then I think there was another open matter. Yeah, that's what I'd say; taxpayers are not a cost. The payment to the fund is the investment of the bank and remains in the balance sheet of the banks – managed by Banka Slovenije. Responsibility – we cannot accept it because of the principle of monetary financing by the legal regulation of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks. And one more thing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you. Replica, Dr. France Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u105	Well, it sounds nice, of course, but we, as a guinea pig in the last two years, have a very bad experience with when to break up a bank. In particular, it is found in the stress test that in the event of some terrible situation, unusual conditions, border conditions, a terrible crisis of scarcity and I don't know what else, then that bank would need additional capital and that capital would not be able to operate profitablely under normal circumstances. And then they get blown up, there's so much capital in there that it's absolutely clear that this won't generate anything, and then we have some condition that banks don't even credit because people in there are completely intimidated, what if they were wrong about the individual credit line. In this way, he would add as an illustration: in that process in 2013, two foreign institutions, the domestic science was completely rejected, two foreign institutions assessed the extent to which the recapitalisation was needed. The automatic take was even worse. From here, these three billion to five billion, depending on how we view government bonds. So the situation is actually, kind of, unusual.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Dragonja, State Secretary in the Office of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I am in favour of clarifying as much as possible in these discussions in order to give all the explanations that are necessary. There was a question about the level of the fund, the contributions and what, if the fund is emptied, by Mr Pogačnik. Banks shall provide funds for the operation of the fund with the payment of funds. Payments shall be made at the time of its establishment. If one of the banks that have already paid the funds ceases to operate, the deposit shall be reimbursed and the other banks of the fund shall be supplemented by the remaining ones on the market and in the event of an extraordinary payment of funds, where the mechanism is also provided for by the law itself. However, if under certain strict conditions the Fund is to use its full potential, it must be clarified that this fund has not been emptied. This fund has invested money in bank shares and has provided some liquid assets managed by Banka Slovenije, which this risk buffer has given or transformed to ensure the stability of these banks, in the shares of the bank, to ensure their capital adequacy and will be an inequitable form of assets, but legally this fund will not be empty. It is clear, however, that there may also be a situation where the funds currently provided for by this bill would not be sufficient. The amount of the fund is determined by the proposal in such a way that, according to current estimates, it is sufficient or appropriate with the risks that may arise. If the risks increase if new situations arise, it is clear that further proposals can then be made, but for the time being both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have assessed that the amount of funds of the Fund, as proposed by this law, is also due to this mechanism, that we have two thresholds or a basic payment, and then an additional call under the mechanism envisaged. It is said that there is already a two-step process here that this height is in accordance with the given conditions, which we can now see, sufficient. I also think that it is necessary to clarify that the Republic of Slovenia is the only one that is now establishing this fund. All European countries are establishing at this moment, in the process of being set up, so that we are not unique. They are established within the framework of the provisions of the European Directive with some of the possibilities it offers, including with different dynamics, with different forms of payment of funds. We have decided, we think, that it is necessary to fill this fund relatively quickly and that it is available in case of need, but does not represent any additional burden for banks in terms of their increased costs or expenditure. It represents a contribution in the form of an investment, that is to say, potential expenditure is in fact only a potentially lower yield than the banks could have achieved in some other forms of investment and in this respect. Let us say that this part does not involve any additional administrative obstacles to banks, as mentioned in one of the previous discussions. The criteria for the operation of banks are thus required for economic operators to qualify for the provision of financial services across Europe. It is said to be a sharpening of criteria and mechanisms, which are intended not only to protect depositors in banks, but also to protect public finances. In this respect, there is a public interest in which this bill is prepared in this form and proposed for approval by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government, the Bank of Slovenia, dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we are talking about the amendment to Article 14, and I will not give a lot of arguments about why this amendment should be supported, but I can see that, on the basis of the debate, the correct debate on both the committee and the debate today – unfortunately to this point only the opposition – feels that this amendment will receive support, which is also right, and will also receive support from New Slovenia. This is a contribution to greater transparency, to the greater transparency of this fund, which is, in some ways, enshrined in this law. However, I am also pleased that somehow this parliamentary practice, good practice, remains, that we usually speak a little wider at the first amendment. Colleagues and colleagues, if we shouldn't talk about such an acute problem as our state banking system, then we can't help it because we're here to help our people. Our people have sent us here, to this institution, to find and adopt the best solutions for our citizens and citizens. What do we do now, at the end of the year, line and inventory – how many good solutions have we adopted for our people here this year? How much better do our people live? We can ask ourselves thousands of similar questions. We need to be concerned here, and we need to change. We have to take decisive, sometimes it will be difficult, but decisive solutions to make our people, two million, and some of us make it easier and better to live. So they won't be looking for their home abroad. Comrade Pogačnik has very clearly discussed the issue of liability regarding the current situation in the banking system. Indeed, this is where the question of the responsibility of the supervisory councils is generated. The question of the responsibility of the oversight councils is not a matter for anyone to put on the table. However, I do not know that the oversight councils would be called by someone — clearly, the owner in particular — to account. Everything remains the same despite a 5-billion-dollar financial injection. I wish, frankly, that Slovenia would become a member of the European Union or, if you wish, a banking union or a euro union, as well, as far as the ownership of our banks is concerned. In order not to be in the family of the countries that I previously counted, which are very good countries, some very good tourist destinations, as some say they have already visited. But obviously, in our thinking, we can't simply switch off that we have to take this privatisation step. Of course, the key problem in Slovenia is that the loans the country rents, which the country is indebted to, are intended to cover past errors. This is not my idea, as also said the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Jazbec in one of his interviews and under this claim we can probably all sign. But that is why we have a memory that we are not working today and in the future mistakes of the past. That's, I mean, a key message. Look, I'm sure you, like me, our citizens are both on the sidewalk, so in the sent-in offices, they're knocking on our sleeves and telling us to take those who took us. We who are members of our banks go to the ATM – and how much can we lift? What about those who raised and got $40 million, $40 million in the state bank, and didn't get it in one bank. And when my colleague and I sat and listened to dozens of hearings on the parliamentary commission of inquiry, we received no answers. Everything was bank secrecy, even some interrogators verbally slapped us and said, Members, what are you doing, because you have no idea, because there was a natural disaster called a bank hole. That's exactly the kind of answer we got. How should I convey these answers to citizens and citizens; those who do not really know what they will put in a pot for the family today for lunch. Things are extremely dramatic. And today, a year after a five billion-dollar injection to banks, we have to ask ourselves what happened in a year after. We need to make an inventory and we need to answer questions about how our banking system has changed. How small are the banks? How much are they lending and how much will they lend in the future, especially the economy? Are they any less wasteful? We don't have those answers. The supervisory councils may have them; those who in some ways adopt the business policy of state banks. The Slovenian banking system fell by €1.3 billion between December 2013 and September this year, the latest available data, despite billions for recapitalisation; it declined to €38.9 billion. The decrease was partly caused by write-offs of loans and partly by repayments of loans, and among the more interesting data is the decline of loans to non-financial corporations, that is to say companies. This concerns me most – the decline in loans to businesses from 11.5 billion euros to 10.3 billion euros. You'll say it's just for nuance. It's a nuance. But the volume of loans to companies has shrunk. Even if we look to the future what state banks are planning next year – of course, the operations of Factor Bank and Probank will continue to decline next year; we know why. Both will also lose their business license, as announced by the Bank of Slovenia. Following this year's capital injections and the transfer of the part of the claim to the DUTB in 2015, the Bank and Bank Celje will implement merger procedures. When a joint bank must be sold, it is not yet specified. But we don't know exactly what NLB and NKBM will do. We don't know that. That is why these debates are very important here today. We in Novi Slovenija have supported, supported all the time on the Committee on European Union Affairs, setting up, establishing a banking union based on three pillars. One is this single rescue mechanism. And here I would like to continue the debate in the next direction. We only expected the government to come with a new Banking Act, ZBan-2, for which we also have an assessment of Mr Draggi or the European Central Bank. And I hope that at least this law, which I know has been put forward, especially by the Bank of Slovenia, and as we read the opinion of the European Central Bank on Zban-2, is well prepared. I hope that the government will bring it to the National Assembly and we will be able to deal with it on a regular basis. Of course, we on the Committee have also demanded an assessment or opinion of the European Central Bank on the law that we are considering today, that is to say the proposal for an organ law and a bank resolution fund. This law that we are considering today is, in fact, just some module of our understanding, some module from ZBan-2, which is exempt. It is a short law, so the government may have an excuse to adopt it by emergency procedure, because it has an obligation to implement it into national law before the Silvestre Directive 59. But the European Central Bank's opinion on the Bank's resolution fund in terms of financial stability is one that requires that we carefully examine this part of the opinion. While the European Central Bank welcomes the establishment of a bank resolution fund in Slovenia with pre-financing, it is not clear how the proposed bank resolution fund will be legal under Directive 59 (BRRD), which I mentioned earlier, which must be transposed into national legislation by the year Silvestre. The European Central Bank understands that the Slovenian authorities will fully transpose Directive 59 into national legislation by means of a separate law – that is to say so; and it is important to ensure consistency between such transposition and the proposal of the law. Here is the question – and the ECB draws attention to the undesirable consequences for fiscal stability, in particular the liquidity problem and the capital position of banks in the implementation of this law, which we are dealing with today. And now I am concluding my debate with the question. I imagine that as soon as 2015 – I hope – we will adopt ZBan-2, the Banking Act, this law that we are adopting today will be put out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you. We are still discussing Article 14 and the amendment tabled. The wish for a debate has been expressed, so please sign in. Before I give the floor to the first debater, the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije mag wants to speak. Janez Fabian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, this law will remain, it will remain as a special law, all other things will be prepared in Zban. In particular, a special law on the field of credit registers will be prepared. As there was also a proposal in ZBan-2 to transfer the current register for natural persons, the credit register managed by the banks themselves, to the central bank. This is also in line with what we are doing in the European System of Central Banks. We are working on a common credit register, and a single identifier for legal persons is being introduced, which means that if our company is to be in debt abroad, this information will be available to all our banks – and vice versa, to foreign companies in our country through the European Central Bank. Just as an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am pleased that the Bank of Slovenia supports this amendment to Article 14. And because I understood the Secretary of State that the government also supports this amendment, I hope that there will not be too many differences between the coalition, the Mir Cerar Party, the current government and the Bank of Slovenia, because otherwise we will not really know if this coalition has this government or not, as was the Law on Budget Implementation, when the government was about to reveal something, but the Mira Cerar Party was against it. But now this vice-governor's response has prompted me to ask a further question. The vice-governor replied when he spoke of the situation of foreign banks that the bank's capital was the first to be used in the face of bank difficulties. Of course, I am now interested in the easy way in which this fund works, too, to answer the question of how Banka Slovenije will work with the full operation of the Fund. Will she first call the owner to recapitalise this bank and then use the fund, say? Will she first use the funds from the fund and perhaps only then call the owner to recapitalise the bank? But I'm also talking about Slovenian banks, not just foreign banks. For others, it was said, first of all, that the capital owner, in other words, probably the vice-governor, was going to say - the resources of the state budget would not be used for foreign banks, but foreigners would, of course, do so. But what will now be the relationship between what is actually going to happen in the banking market? Here another question is asked or asked by the Government or Banka Slovenije. This now refers to when you said that if the fund is emptied, the fund essentially has shares in the bank. And this question is now also raised in relation to those first ones to which I did not get an answer, namely, what this means for banks or banks' balances. Of course, these shares have, and the value of these changes and are likely to affect banks if the value of the shares decreases. And I ask again how this transfer of this property to the fund, so to speak, will affect Slovenian banks or the balance sheet of these banks? This is said to be two questions. First, how will the owner's capital now be used in bank resolution? In our case, it's a state, for most banks. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first say how right it was that it was decided that we had previously suspended the meeting and waited for the vice-governor to join this point. I hope that in the future, he will overcome reason several times and that this way we will enable a debate that will be of quality and that we will have answers to important questions. Last but not least, we are talking about the situation in Slovenian banks, we are talking about the money that taxpayers spend too often to rehabilitate and improve the situation in our banks. Of course, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I am pleased to see some encouraging discussions followed by other or other parliamentary groups. The amendment represents a step towards transparency, greater transparency and that the debate on the situation in Slovenian banks will not be a bank secret when we are talking about tax money. Citizens are too often faced with the fact that something about banks is being said, but they hear the debate especially when their money needs to be spent again to remedy the situation. This amendment will allow banks to be made publicly available, which will be subject to payment obligations, and also to the level of payment appropriations. We will also find out which banks will not be involved in this, and we will find out how much and which banks will be the ones that will then get paid. For this reason, I hope that the amendment will receive as much support as possible. And once again, I wish today, when the vice-governor and other representatives are here, that the Slovenian public is repeatedly informed about what is happening and where we are going. This is a very important issue, and we have had too many difficulties in view of the situation in the country when we are here in the National Assembly taking some non-systemic measures in the last days just to look for literal cents. It would be good for much more to be done in the future in this area of transparency.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We will support both of the proposed amendments on our own and in our Group of Members. I am pleased that both the representative of the Government and the representative of the Bank of Slovenia have not just said that they support this, but that this is an additional path to transparency. And it might be right not to have the same or similar complications and pauses as we had yesterday, that the government coalition, that the biggest government party, would tell us what the attitude towards this amendment is. In the past year, a huge amount of taxpayer money was intended for the rehabilitation of the financial system. I still don't know if there was any other way. The law was adopted the way it was. After this law, we have saved our financial system more or less, but apparently not until the end. I am glad to have us with us today — not yet the Governor — sufficiently the High Representative of the Bank of Slovenia. However, I am a little disappointed because the concrete answers that we wanted to get, why this law must be so fast, could be resolved in the Banking Act; the directive, if other countries have not done so, I do not know why it would be an obligation for Slovenia. Previously, you said that not all countries have implemented or made this so-called, you call it, an organ. If it is a matter of resolution, urgent resolution of some particular Slovenian bank – and you know this today – I think it is right that you tell us too; without now adopting the law and in three days we will find that you did not want certain things for us So I see no reason, because if you know if it will be public in five or ten days, it is probably better that you tell us today. [[…]] As I have already said in the introduction, if the Government, if the coalition estimates that this change or this introduction or establishment of this body is necessary, we will not interfere; but we would like to understand why such a hurry. We'd think we'd talk about this within the Banking Act. And so far I have somehow not had the right reason for this to be different, unless we know that this solution is necessary because of one particular case. If that's the case, please tell us. As has already been said, I will be in the light of transparency and we will support both amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In opening, I must say that I will support the two amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party because they lead these solutions to greater transparency, as has been said many times today. As soon as a condition of greater transparency is created, it is also easier to identify responsibility. I think that there has been so much irresponsibility in the banking system lately and so much bad things have been done that it is now slowly that all appropriate measures have to be prepared slowly to enable us to identify accountability in a qualitative manner. Looking into the past of the operation of our banking system and of our chief supervisor, we can see that this was extremely irresponsible, bad. If that were not the case, we would not be in the situation today, as we are, that our banking system should have been recapitalised with such billions. From that point forward, virtually nothing special has happened in this area; we just still have no real information on who is the one who stole money from these state banks, who is the responsible person. We know – the members of the supervisory boards are written down, the administrations are written down, those who gave credit without adequate grounds, and in the vast majority also know who was the one who called on banks to give such and other credits to beautiful eyes or connections. And that's what's extremely problematic. I therefore look forward to every step that goes against improving and increasing the responsibility of all those actors responsible for the functioning and functioning of our banking system. And I cannot today pass what has been said many times, which bothers me very much, by the vice-governor and the secretary of state – no more tax money for the recapitalisation of banks. And once again, I ask myself, and all of you who are sitting in this House, precisely because this matter will also be very clear to our taxpayers; this fund, which we are establishing with this law, will be paid indirectly by our taxpayers. They're the ones who recapitalized the banks. We're the ones who recapitalized the banks. And at this point, the money that's in the banks is our money; it's not bank money. And the fund they're going to set up is our money. Instead of this 2.3% money going into this fund, we are re-establishing the fund to finance businesses in terms of lending businesses in order to eliminate this credit crunch. Same thing over and over again. I have listened to what this directive of the European Central Bank says. I agree that this must be done. However, once again, it must be made clear to people that this is our common money, that it is not the money of someone else's third or some banking lobby, some banking sector. This is Slovenian taxpayer money. And if this money were to invest in economic development, borrowing credits, people would, those who are looking forward to today, who are key to our system being able to survive the future that they are creating, and these are economic operators in this country, would go into the right hands, where we would fertilize where the principals and interest would return. The principal and interest would go back to the bank and it would create a strong banking system, a better economic condition and all that is necessary for a country as a whole to function normally because we can have a social state because we have everything the state needs — if we do so. The fund won't solve this. Once again, we will have, according to some people, employees who will be paid from this money, as we now have a case of bad banks. Look what we listen to every day, millions and millions of dollars of money are spent on what I don't know. I hope you're reading our media, printed and written, which provides this information. That's worrying. And again, I do not see any concrete action. We can't afford millions to go, go, go, go. I ask all those responsible in this country to put an end to this. And those who do not work in the interest of the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people and the Slovenian taxpayer are properly punished, imprisoned and confiscated by all the assets they have received in this way, in a non-transparent manner. He can't shut his eyes either Mr Vice-Governor or Secretary of State to the President of the Government about what we're hearing about this bad bank, about these things, about how money is being spent. We can't shut our eyes. At least the National Assembly. At least! These are important questions to be answered as soon as possible. As I said in the introduction, these two amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported. It will also depend on how we vote on the proposal of the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. A little later, I am calling because I have been waiting for us to come to a debate on what we are now supposed to discuss, and these are precisely the two amendments or the specific amendments to Article 14. We received it today at the table, so we also needed to think a little bit about the consequences of accepting or rejecting such an amendment. My initial views on this are, so that part that is somehow related to the retention of this; what will be said to be consistent is that the investments are banks, that's what their assets are. They don't have the freedom with him once he goes into this fund, then Banka Slovenije takes care of it, but it's their property. And when I was thinking in this direction, whether it's a thing for us or them to reveal it, I started to kind of think, because that's their thing, and probably they'll also be obliged to reveal it in their annual statements. [[Incomprehensible]] Then we go ahead and think about what we want as a party to this national convention or, like us, with our principles, what we would like to lead to. And once again we come to transparency, in Slovenian we call this transparency what is actually happening. From this point of view, at least in my case, this thinking is that it is right to know who has put the money in this fund, how much he has given it, and how this money will be spent; regardless of the fact that banks are now supposed to contribute their own money to it. Because in the past we have not been overly fortunate about the rehabilitation of banks, as soon as we became independent, we were hit by one big one; and now again. This has also increased our public debt. This has led to many things and by getting an insight into this or by getting an insight into it, I think a preventive mechanism is added, so that such matters will not come to the fore again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you. Can we go to the debate on Article 15 and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors? Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u123	I won't torture you too long, but I listened with interest to the debate of my colleague Christmas. It will be very interesting to see the transparency of the same government, the various ministers, with various proposals. In one case you will say that something is not necessary, but in the other case you will say that it is necessary. You know, already in January you will face the Minister of Justice, who will come to you here with the proposal that all shares become clear, like some kind of matrix, even in private sectors; and we will be able to see all citizens for everyone where they have their shares and what I know what else. Yes, dear God. Then you'll probably get up, mate Christmas, and you'll say it's not necessary. I hope you say it like that. You know, we have to be consistent. I know where the problem is. The problem is already at the moment when we said that we would open procedures with the DUB so that everyone could know all about who got how many credits. And then we opened Pandora's box for everyone. And now we have to have the same vats for all cases. It just doesn't work that way. Here you will find yourself trapped in a loop, so I suggest you discuss in a month's time what you have just said today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u124	Mr. Tillen Christmas has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u125	There's only one thing I'd say about that. I've decided on one particular matter. I agree with consistency, but one of the things that falls under my consistency is that everyone can't always know everything about everything. And in such cases, regardless of whether or not a basic rule is followed by each other, it is also necessary to decide on a case-by-case basis whether it is supported or not. Until the one you've just mentioned, I'll define myself when I get him on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u127	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I could perhaps add one further argument to why it is imperative that this amendment be supported. Banks themselves are already obliged to disclose their results in some part of the Banking Act, according to international accounting standards and the Banking Act, but this is done once a year, quarterly, half a year. Article 5 of this proposed law clearly states that the Bank of Slovenia manages the Fund by directing, representing and representing it. With this amendment we only travel the additional obligation of the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia agrees, the Secretary of State of the Government agrees, and I hope that you will also be coalition Members. For the vice-governor, I would only ask one question. This law is clearly written in some parts, especially with regard to the cut-off date of the bank’s payment obligation — 30. 9. 2014; then paragraph 4 of Article 14 sets out which banks are not to pay these funds in order to somehow jeopardise their liquidity or capital adequacy for a period of six months. The representative of Banka Slovenije also said on the Finance Committee that there have been a lot of simulations on the employment of banks, what impact this fund will have. So I'm wondering, I'm sure at this point you need to know, within three months, what's going to be the amount that's going to be in the fund, given that the cut-off date is 30. 9. and given that the fourth paragraph of Article 14 has been very clearly written, the banks of which will not pay for it. It has already been made clear – Factor Bank, Probank, not. You know what these funds are going to be like. However, with regard to today's debate, I believe that some pot cap has also been discovered. If we put together a little bit of information that the Bank of Slovenia and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance give us by cap, I think we can come to a clear conclusion why this law should be adopted by emergency procedure, why it is so urgent. The only logical explanation is that in a way, the coalition is trying to find a perimeter to prevent something from being remedied through the budget. The fact is, it is likely that the Bank of Slovenia and the coalition are aware of one of the information that one of the banks will break down again and that it will have to be repaired. The question raised by the vice-governor in relation to the subsidiaries of foreign owners in Slovenia made it very clear that they are eligible for funding; however, the European Directive, the Banking Act and the Guidelines stipulate that the original banks are rehabilitating owners. And now we've come to a very clear conclusion. This means, before this fund is used, it is necessary to call on owners to remedy the banking system or to remedy liquidity adequacy, the capital adequacy of the bank itself. And now we know that in Slovenia we have nationalised banks NKBM, Abanko, NLB, we are now Banka Celje. This means that these banks too will be subject to exceptional measures by the Bank of Slovenia to call first the owners. It will be difficult to convince me that for banks that are 100 percent owned by the country, the state of Slovenia will say, "Look, we have no money to rehabilitate these banks." This means that this is a bankruptcy of the country or bankruptcy. This means that this introduction is not made and that taxpayers will be exempted from this fund. On the other hand, given the three-month deadline and so on, it clearly states that it is likely that one of the private banks that is in Slovenia, or that any indirect or direct state ownership is still in that bank, will need rehabilitation within a relatively short period of time; and that the owners of these banks will not have the resources to do so. [[Incomprehensible]] And that this fund will then draw on this rehabilitation for these banks. Now we can only guess whether it is the Gorenjska banka or the Country Bank, these banks are no longer in Slovenia today. I think we have come to the conclusion very quickly that this is the province of the Ministry of Finance, a coalition circuit, that it will be necessary to give €250-300 million again in the 2015 budget for a certain budget correction. I don't believe you'll get together; and that one thing will help. I think it's a waste of our time here to be able to say this already on the Committee on Finance or today, just because it's necessary, it's a necessary procedure, some private bank is going to collapse again. Of course, we cannot afford any bankruptcy in Slovenia. In order to protect investors and the banking system itself, you quickly adopted this law, which should be adopted. And that this fund does not mean any protection for taxpayers, that it is actually a unique one, even within the framework of the European Union. I have already said the arguments before about how Germany solves this; in another way, France saves it; in another way, the Netherlands saves it; and in particular, the balance sheet amounts of the banks are significantly higher there. Dear Vice Governor, I expect you to be on at least one of these questions. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u128	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. In my opinion, the biggest problem is that nothing is required in return for the taxpayers' funds used to rehabilitate banks. This is about billions of sums, which at least on paper repair the situation in banks, make them liquid — and this is it. Nothing is required of them to return this money over time. And that happens all the time. This fund – according to the same experiences we have – will be empty in one year, will change if there is nothing that requires responsibility from them, a real responsibility in terms of paying back the taxpayer's money, which obviously has no price in our case. Tax money doesn't have any price on us! So this law will turn into something that will only speed up the use of these funds — nothing else; because it does not happen in some normal circumstances and it happens on the basis of one practice that has actually brought this country to its knees. And what we should do in this reference, this government in this reference, should prevent it from continuing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u131	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. During my debate on the SDS quota, I raised several additional questions, which were added to the last part, for representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Vice-Governor. There's still time for Vladi, and I'm really asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr Dragonja, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The government also ran out of time because the time of Banka Slovenije was also deducted from the government's time quota. I would like to point out once again that this is not about any circuitry. This is an exceptional measure provided for by the directive to establish this mechanism. I can also say that such a similar fund has been set up by the Republic of Slovenia and is linked to export promotion measures; this is a fund that operates in the SID bank and works well, it increases, partly when risks arise. This is a fund managed under the budgetary assets and directly managed by the SID of the Bank. And I must also say here that I am sure that the Bank of Slovenia will manage this fund with great responsibility. Simulations were made as to how much funding would be raised in this fund in principle, €195 million. As I mentioned earlier, it is estimated that in a given situation, given the economic framework and the risks identified in banks today, this is sufficient. And in this sense, the solution proposed to the National Assembly is not a unique solution. As you have seen, the European Central Bank also welcomes this establishment. And I think that under all the principles of managing such a fund, the Fund will be able to function effectively and achieve its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you. Now I'm really closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Period of the day, it's on the motion for a law on the supplementation of the law on redress by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! With the proposal before you, it is possible to maintain the arrangements whereby the lawyer appointed under an official duty and the lawyer providing free legal assistance services are entitled to payment for his work of half the amount to which he would belong under the new legal rate. This will adequately limit the effects of the new legal tariff adopted by the Assembly of the Bar of Slovenia on 27 September this year, which – this is important – does not distinguish legal services obtained on the market from those paid from the State budget. The Law on legal tariffs currently applicable to the pricing of legal services already provides for specific, lower representation tariffs in cases of free legal aid and ex offo cases, the appropriateness of which, i.e. such arrangements, has already been assessed and assessed by the Constitutional Court as appropriate. The setting of specific tariffs for legal services paid from the budget is therefore nothing new in our legal space. In the view of the Constitutional Court, it is necessary to separate the situation where lawyers operate on the market and freely seek and receive customers from the situation where they operate in the BPP and ex offo systems. In this case, they perform the duty of the State, under its authority and, of course, upon payment from State resources, so it is not disputed that the prices of these legal services are determined by law; however, in the legislative procedure, it is necessary to ensure the participation of the Bar of Slovenia, and this has also been done in a specific case. The Ministry of Justice has coordinated with the Bar Chamber in the process of preparing a new legal tariff, as well as when we were preparing a novelty that is before you today. With regard to this novel, two meetings were last held with lawyers in October, later coordination was also by telephone and in other ways; and lawyers did not particularly oppose solutions. In coordination procedures, it was also agreed with the Bar that they would prepare a proposal for an undertaking or a set of friendly measures for citizens. We're still waiting for these measures. At the Ministry of Justice, we have prepared calculations of legal services under the Law on legal tariffs and calculations of these same cases as would be legal costs under the new legal tariff; all on the basis of concrete cases, as I said. The calculations show that, according to the new legal rate, the prices of legal services will be largely influenced, most precisely in the procedures of representation under official duty and in the case of free legal aid services, i.e. in the case of representations paid from the State budget; therefore, 50 % lower tariffs in the case of such services are necessary. It is imperative that the costs of legal work, as I have said many times before, are maintained at the level at which they are today. To keep them within these limits, this 50% correction is necessary. The second set of amendments to the law before you is aimed at pursuing the objective of greater transparency, bringing news in the field of disciplinary procedures and procedures of the Ethics Commission, which operates at the Bar. We stress that the legal and democratic state has a special role and importance, and that lawyers are rightly required to have higher standards of conduct in the performance of their activities. In view of the above, because of the two objectives that we are pursuing, it is necessary to accept the novel which is before you. There will be limited legal expenditure from the budget, while the adoption of the novel will also increase transparency in the provision of legal services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u137	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Director-General, Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The Justice Committee is at its 3rd emergency session. 12. 2014 as a parent working body was considered by the Government's proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Lawyery, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. The representative of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law limits, inter alia, the expenditure of the state budget for lawyer services when they operate under the mandatory system of representation under official duties in criminal proceedings and under the compulsory system of provision of free legal assistance. The new legal tariff adopted by the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia in September 2014 does not specifically regulate this, so it would impose a considerable burden on the State budget to implement such payments. The proposed novel reduces them by half, thus keeping them at the current level. She explained that the previous amendment to the Law on Lawyers had repealed the Law on Lawyers, which set the legal rate in euro amounts, in view of the value of the disputed case and the coefficient for a particular type of legal activity and provided for the payment of one award for the execution of a particular set of equivalent services in the same case. With the new legal rate, the point system for charging legal services for each individual act shall be returned. She further stressed that the Ministry of Justice has been working intensively with the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia for a long time, but the issue of the arrangements for payment of representation under official responsibility and free legal assistance remained unresolved. Similarly, the Slovenian Bar Council has not adopted a concrete proposal on how to reduce the burden of the state budget. On the basis of an analysis of the costs of randomly selected court files, they have therefore drawn up a proposed solution comparable to the current regulation, since payments for these services are already lower than those charged by lawyers to their clients as their chosen lawyers. In the presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service commented on Articles 2, 3 and 4 that they were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled. However, it reiterated its comment on Article 1 which sets the price of legal services in cases where a lawyer is appointed on official duty or provides free legal aid services. According to the SPS, it is not disputed that the prices of legal services are determined by law, in particular those paid from the State budget, but that the proposed half payment would be justified for justified reasons; not only by the flat-rate arguments set out in the recital. In cooperation with the Vice-President, the representative of the Slovenian Bar Association said that they had coordinated with the Minister of Justice on the level of the legal tariff and agreed to the value of 2003. The Slovenian Chamber of Lawyers recognises the right of the State to provide a payment for representation under official duty and for free legal aid services otherwise, but should take into account the situation on the market and non-arbitrary, without the participation of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, to determine the half of the value without a basis in the specific financial calculations. The proposed solution is also not justified because procedural legislation prevents the accumulation of applications and orders. At the same time, a judge shall be responsible for the rational conduct of the proceedings. It also expressed its fear that the number of lawyers who will voluntarily participate in the implementation of these services will decrease significantly due to reduced earnings and, as a result, the inability to do business or the quality of services will decrease. In the debate, opposition Members opposed the proposed solutions, as they felt that the proposed solutions should be coordinated with the Slovenian Bar Association in advance and not be held accountable for their consequences to the National Assembly. The proposed half reduction in the payment of services to a lawyer who is appointed under an official duty or who provides free legal aid services will result in a distinction between lawyers and parties in a judicial procedure which will not receive the same quality of legal services. It was also pointed out by the coalition that both institutions are intended for the most vulnerable segments of the population and that equal legal treatment should be ensured for all parties. In doing so, it would be appropriate to listen to the proposal of the Chamber of Counsel that the payments in question should rather be regulated by a sub-legislative regulation. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and supported the draft law [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u138	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President, and a very nice greeting from the other end today. Today we have a topic that looks very attractive from the outside and is very nice because the cost of working for those we say in Slovenia has been reduced, that they have solid money – lawyers. And I must say that in general, a person would be quick to support this. But when a person gets a little deeper into the matter when he comes to the committee, he listens to the government or the ministry, and when he actually hears other arguments from the Bar, we find that the Ministry made the jump first, and then I would like to say, finally, a hop. However, these two usually do not work out in sport, but this is not the case mainly because if we go to see how much money is actually earmarked for free legal aid, there was about 6 million and a half euros in the spending budget there. Then you immediately ask yourself when he finds out about this number, and why that money was actually spent. What are these free legal aids, what are the themes used primarily by those who are socially disadvantaged, unable to pay, and therefore are also called free legal aid. You know, it costs everything. It's free. When we find out that 4 million are designed for personal bankruptcy, it's called legal and natural persons, and then one starts to wonder something else. Is it really necessary to lower, change the tariff? Would you first ask yourself what free legal aid is? And, of course, first of all, I would like to say what is the topic that deserves to be included in the so-called free legal aid basket. And if we look at how many others there are that are justified, one would say they're justified, and there's about 2 million and a half. Now it's the point. Why does the Ministry even propose such a law, this change? He is proposing it because, in fact, one month ago, he would not have suggested it at all. It was suggested, however, at a time when the Ministry of Finance said too much money. So we're not even talking about content anymore, but we're just talking about lowering funds. When we asked the committee why, for God's sake, they really don't consider, given what they're saying at the Bar, it's said from the profession that these aren't free legal aid; and even if you go to look at growth, you'll see that in the last year, two years these funds have grown. No, the Minister of Justice decides to cut it. And what's even more wrong is that it's a mistake to cut down in such a way that it compresses a matter that's not a marriage, but is a marriage, into a marriage; and we're there. I am an interpreter myself, and I know that we have an interpretation tariff signed by the Minister and that he can change it every day; he doesn't need the National Assembly at all. And we're pushing this stuff back into the law with free legal aid. In fact, we work, for the first time, confusion. This is as they have loved in the coalition for the last month to repeat that they want to systematically regulate things, to fully approach them. I'll tell you what's non-systemic and what's incomplete. It is, in particular, incomplete and, in the first place, that the tariff is pushed into law. And secondly, to lower the price first, then the Secretary of State says the following sentence: In the future, we will consider and discuss how we will settle this, and we will systematically regulate what free legal aid is. Forgive me, such a law in such a way, by such a procedure, with such arrogance to a profession that could not really explain and answer a single question meaningfully, except for the fact that there is too much money, we simply cannot support it. But we will support the amendment that we will [[sign for the end of the debate]] in the debate itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you. Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u141	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are deciding on the amendment of the Law on Lawyers, not the Law on Free Legal Aid, but perhaps later. The Law on Lawyers follows two objectives: the first, which is bound by the legal tariff and the second, which is linked to increasing the transparency of the activities of lawyers. The new legal tariff introduces a system of awarding lawyers, which already existed prior to 2009, which means a point system, which means that it is valued as an individual procedural act. The legal rate also affects the amount of funds paid to lawyers from the Court budgets, as the remuneration to which they are entitled is calculated on the basis of the tariff and also on the basis of the decision on BPP. In order to enable the State to determine the extent of the resources paid to lawyers for the costs of representation under the GPP, the Constitutional Court has already decided, in its 2009 decision, when it found that it was necessary to separate the situation where lawyers operate on the market and freely seek and receive customers from the situation where they operate under the mandatory system of representation under criminal proceedings and within the framework of the system of representation under the approved free legal assistance. It concluded that in cases of compulsory defence in criminal proceedings and representation on the basis of free legal assistance granted, lawyers actually perform the tasks arising from the Constitution as positive obligations of the State and which are also fully financed by the State. In this part, lawyers do not carry out free economic activities but carry out the duties of the State, under its authority and upon payment from State resources. Such a position is also based on the amendment of the Law on Lawyery. The main purpose is to limit the expenditure of the state budget for lawyer services when they operate under the mandatory system of representation under official duties in criminal matters and in the context of the provision of free legal assistance. Lawyers will be entitled to half of the amount that would be due to them under the legal rate. The prizes paid from the budgets of the District Courts are simply not sustainable under the new legal rate for the Slovenian budget and represent an irresistible financial burden for the courts already facing major financial difficulties due to insolvency proceedings. It is therefore a restriction on the payment of legal aid awards paid to the parties by the State. That this was permissible, however, the Constitutional Court, as it was said, also found. The second objective of the amendment is to increase the transparency of the functioning of the lawyer, where the obligation is to publish publicly deleted lawyers and the reasons for the deletion from the directory, to publish the names of the composition of the disciplinary authorities and the bodies responsible for assessing violations of the Code of Professional Ethics. It is therefore essential to amend the amount of payment received by lawyers who will be paid by the State for the representation of parties in criminal or other proceedings. Since the new legal tariff provides for significantly higher costs to be borne by the State, the restriction is necessary. Such a measure is legitimate and proportionate as access to legal protection is ensured for customers who cannot cover the costs of the procedure. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party will support the amendment of the proposed Law on Lawyerry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr Mag will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Everyone on behalf of the SDS has a lovely greeting! Today we are dealing with a problem that should be solved elsewhere. What is the essence of the story of these tariffs that we are reviewing here today? All applicable legislation is written in such a way that the executive branch of authority, together with the Chamber of Lawyers, must find a common language, adopt the appropriate tariffs and then, in agreement with the Minister of this tariff, shall apply. That's how the mechanism was set up. Now, suddenly, out of this consensus, searching for consensus, therefore, departs and part of it is simply thrown into the marriage. Why? This was wonderful to see at the session itself, unfortunately most of you weren't there, but you can take a look at the video. For two hours there was a verbal battle between a representative of the Bar Association, or two, and a lady secretary of State, who was apparently left with a thankless job by the Minister. What happened in the first minute? Yes, but things were not properly arranged there. That is to say, those who should have agreed earlier obviously did not do the right work. Apparently, according to local words, the government has drawn a shorter end to these negotiations — either now or in the past. And now a nice responsibility is passed on to the National Assembly. The national assembly should adopt half the tariffs in certain cases, in such a way that, without it being specified in advance, what free legal aid is at all. The law now later comes to the National Assembly, and it is already seen that it is a restriction, to abolish, for example, the first free advice, and more. [[Incomprehensible]] Well, that wrong sequence already says something. And then there was a long and wide discussion about the arguments why this solution wasn't good and why it wasn't. But that's really not a good solution. What is the essence of the law, what will actually be the essential consequence of this law that is before us today if it is finally adopted? We can say that those are the best intentions. Old wisdom also says that the path to hell is pressed for the best of purposes. This is certainly true of the current government. If the law halves the tariff in certain cases, when it comes to representation by duty, these may also be very difficult and difficult cases, and for free legal aid, it will in fact do two groups. Two groups of lawyers themselves, one to be paid in full, and the other to be paid in half. Why don't you go take a look at what it's like in practice if you look at what some of the lawyers' offices are cashing out; those who are close, in call, in the government trough. Here, too, there are millions of euro amounts to prepare certain materials, sometimes we read, to intervene in some contracts. I have a very bad feeling about this when I read it, but it's about public companies, where there's taxpayers' money in the background. On the other hand, you have a whole bunch of lawyers who barely live. Now this law will be reliable, there is no need to pretend or cover your eyes, it will also potentiate, and it will cause even greater concentration, so that some of the law offices that will be able to avoid these regulations will work phenomenally; but those who are forced to work for half the rate will work. But there is something far worse in the background — from the point of view of the common man. Such a law will in practice make two categories of people when it comes to their legal protection from the courts; for any legal office can commit itself, any lawyer – even in the code – will commit himself to doing the same in any case regardless of the circumstances. But you know, in practice we are all people – and lawyers certainly. It will be very difficult to convince me that in all cases, in all cases, every lawyer will work equally hard for the full tariff, with all the ratings or for half the tariff. And what does that mean in practice? To question one fundamental constitutional principle that we are all exactly the same before marriage. Once again, it is also a matter of mandatory representation in the most difficult cases before a court and for free assistance. And that's not supposed to happen. What is being transferred here today to the National Assembly, which will bear responsibility if it accepts this, should be done beforehand by the government [[sign for the end of the debate]] I should look for an appropriate consensus with the Bar Association for all these solutions. [[…]] And that there's a willingness to talk, we've heard more than once. Personally, I think it would be best if this law were lifted. Since this business is not possible, we will certainly vote against it. It would be good for everyone to do so and thus open up the possibility of respecting the legal practice and the legal order that has so far been going in the direction of finding consensus. There's always a better consensus than something forcefully halved. And once again, I warn you to put the coalition in the role of garbage for what their government should have done. Thank you, everyone. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary-General, co-worker, honourable Members, honourable Members! Members and Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be supported by supplementing the Law on Lawyers. With the Government's proposal to limit payment for legal services in the exercise of free legal aid and in the case of representation under official responsibility, we agree in Desus, because we have assessed that this is not only fiscally necessary when changing the legal rate, but that the special arrangement of these payments is also appropriate on the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in comparison with the legal services, which, to say so, are listed on the market. The findings of the Constitutional Court justify the separation of positions between lawyers operating on the market and seeking and receiving customers freely; and those operating under the compulsory system of representation under official duties in criminal proceedings and under the compulsory system of providing free legal assistance. In this part, when lawyers carry out the duties of the State under its authority and upon payment from State resources, the fixing of the prices of legal services cannot be inconsistent with the first paragraph of Article 74 of the Constitution which speaks of a free economic initiative. The new legal tariff reintroduces a point-based system for charging legal costs. With regard to the level of the bar, the Ministry of Justice has reached an agreement with the Bar Chamber to set the bar at the same level as it was established between 2003 and 2009. One of the basic features of the new legal tariff is also the charging of each legal act separately. In view of this, it considers that the new legal tariff would significantly increase budgetary expenditure. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we agree to halve the amount to be paid for the recognition of payments in ex-offo procedures and for the free legal aid provided by the State, thus neutralising the consequences of the application of the new legal tariff in respect of these expenses; it is also necessary to add that the payment of these services remains at the current level. The second part of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Lawyers amends or amends paragraphs 31 and 60 of the Law. With the addition of both articles, an obligation will be established to publish the list of deletions from the lawyer's directory, at the same time as the publication of the reasons, and the obligation to publish the name composition of all disciplinary authorities and bodies responsible for assessing infringements of the Code of Professional Ethics at the Bar of Slovenia. As this brings more transparency in the functioning of the lawyer and increases the legal security of citizens, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia also welcomes this substantive addition to the law. As already mentioned above, Members and Members of the Desus Group will vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. However, we will not support the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4a of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that again. When we talk about legal tariffs, it is actually a matter of evaluating and calculating the costs of legal fees and expenses that a client or contracting entity must pay to a lawyer or a law firm. In cases where lawyers operate under the mandatory system of representation under official duties in criminal proceedings and in the context of compulsory provision of free legal assistance, the costs of legal work shall be borne by the State budget. This budget item is constantly growing. However, according to the Ministry's calculations, it will in particular rise by introducing a new legal tariff reinstituting a point-based system for charging legal services and thus charging each individual legal act. In order to avoid this increase in budget costs, the government has decided to limit these expenditure by law. This solution follows the principle of sound budgetary management and will contribute to the balance of the budget. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we have prepared the coalition partners with whom we have tried to remedy the shortcomings. Or we did it, and it'll show us time. When we had a heated discussion on the working body, we listened primarily to a discussion between lawyers or the Bar and the Government — who, when, and how long had he coordinated or negotiated? In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that there is a place for such a debate or for an exchange of views elsewhere, particularly where the proposals are being drawn up. We are also aware that all the solutions that are being prepared are not good, but at some point these things need to be done. However, we agree that we can get to know each other a lot sooner on open issues. Other issues related to the payment of public budget costs, such as personal bankruptcy, have also been raised on the Committee. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will strongly support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Lawyers. However, we call on relevant interlocutors to cooperate in the drafting of justice legislation, desiring that laws are good. Finally, once again, Members of the Social Democrats and Members of the Social Democrats have repeatedly pointed out that we are not inclined to continuously interfere with the legislation, especially those relating to the judiciary, if you wish, in the field of justice. For we all find together that even because of repeated interventions into marital matter, we sometimes do not, by means of forced solutions, contribute to a faster and better part of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you. The position of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Mr Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! We can agree that we are living at a time when citizens' trust in the rule of law is extremely low. We also live at a time when they feel that there are two countries in Slovenia, one for the rich and the other for the poor. But if we look at the more resonant media stories of the last period, we can get a quick feeling that this is actually the case. The largest government party stressed the importance and role of the social state and the need to strengthen it all the time before the elections. However, with the solutions proposed for the adoption of the National Assembly, it seems to us that it is doing exactly the opposite. And the proposal before us today is another such solution. We have been considerably detained in the United Left since the first day until the draft law on the legal supplements. However, after the parental board meeting, our concerns have only increased. Those who attended this meeting know that the meeting was substantially different from other meetings. In fact, it was a matter of negotiating between a representative of the Ministry of Justice and a Chamber of Lawyers, which in normal circumstances should take place outside the National Assembly, is said in the coordination negotiations. In an almost three-hour dialogue between the representatives of both sides, the Ministry warned and the concerns of the Bar simply did not want to take into account, nor did it want to take into account the comments and warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service. An essential solution to the bill is due to the new legal tariff, which is due to enter into force on 1 January. As the new legal rate would make legal services more expensive, this would result in higher costs for the State in relation to representation under official duty and the provision of free legal aid services. For this reason, the Government proposes that lawyers receive only 50% of the payments that would otherwise be due to them. On the question of why exactly 50% were unable to give a clear answer or an argument. We are not talking, therefore, about the income of lawyers they have from the provision of services on the free market, but we are talking about the work relating to the most vulnerable groups, namely beneficiaries of free legal aid and representation on an official basis. While we do not deny the Government the power to regulate the prices of services in these cases, in view of the fact that it is for persons who cannot afford or provide their own legal services, we would expect the prices of services to be designed in such a way as to provide them with quality legal assistance. The fact that the government proposal is prepared on the basis of a flat-rate assessment, which does not make it clear at all, and if, for how much the costs of such services should be increased, the representative of the Bar Association and the Legal and Legislative Service were warned, however, the proposal for a law on the parent committee was supported by the Coalition. We are therefore deciding on a proposal that we do not really know whether it is necessary, and even less know what the impact will have in practice. The country should put the care of the materially weak first – in all areas. With constant savings, however, she logically caused more and more people representing a lawyer to be unable to afford it. That the number of applicants for free legal assistance from day to day and from year to year is therefore a logical consequence; the solution proposed by the Government does not represent any systemic solution to the problem – it is simply a precautionary save, without considering what will cause it in practice. In the United Left, we fear that the Government has no intention of strengthening the rule of law, but it wants to strengthen the principle of two legal states and a system in which effective legal protection is constitutionally guaranteed, depending on the material status of the individual. And of course this is not only true for the rule of law, but, unfortunately, for all aspects of the country. The Ministry's arguments did not convince us, even though it wants to end the free legal aid bill that we will be considering in January – another measure against the most vulnerable population group – with the amendment of the Free Legal Advice Act. We cannot support the draft law on the Supplementation of the Law on Lawyers in the United Left, but we will support the amendments tabled by the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u151	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The key novelty brought by the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on Lawyers is the determination of the payment of representation costs for lawyers representing parties on official duty in criminal matters and in free legal assistance procedures, i.e. in procedures where legal services are paid from the State budget. According to the Ministry of Justice, this amendment does not mean a reduction in payments to lawyers for costs of ex-offo representation or free legal aid services, at least in most cases it does not; it is merely an adjustment to the new way in which legal services are evaluated. In the future, legal services will be revalued under the legal tariff adopted by the Bar, i.e. the same as before 2009; and not more on the basis of the current Law on Lawyerial Tariff. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be supported by a proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers, as we believe that, at a time when the country is facing a large or excessive public deficit, an increase in budgetary resources for the purpose of payment of legal services is not appropriate. At the same time, we would point out the need for major systemic changes in the area of free legal aid. We Christian Democrats believe that the current legal regime in this area is a major obstacle to the possibility of accessing the courts of all individuals, regardless of their property status, because the process of obtaining free legal aid for the rights of non-scientific parties, which, in most cases, are too complicated, too liberal and also very long. Often, for an individual applicant who, while fulfilling all the conditions for granting free legal aid, the completion of the application form has been too demanding and many prefer to waive the exercise of their right. In addition, the applicant must also indicate in the application the information that the courts themselves should obtain from the official records and there is no reason for us to burden applicants who are difficult to obtain; for example, information on the amount of family members' benefits. Moreover, there are no lawyers in smaller places willing to take over the provision of free legal aid services. The applicant shall be granted a lawyer from a remote location, which is too much of an obstacle for a variety of applicants who are in poor health conditions or who may be residing in a place which is not available for public transport means of transport to benefit from free legal aid. While we have already received a proposal for amendments in the parliamentary procedure and a supplement to the Law on free legal aid, which does indeed address some of the shortcomings identified, it does not address the systemic most pressing issues in this area. It is the belief of us Christian Democrats that the free legal aid institution, in particular the first free legal advice, should be regulated in legislation in a way that is accessible to the widest range of stakeholders and as close to their residence as possible, regardless of their property status. Some municipalities have therefore taken the initiative in organising the first free legal advice and have also taken over the payment of these services. In our view, the organisation of this form of free legal aid is one of the options that would make sense to examine and introduce into our legal system and to allocate funds to the municipalities from the budget for these purposes. It's the only way we can improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4a and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you. The amendment already announced by some parties is an amendment that we are trying, within the framework of at least possible, to get things together so that they work around the system. Together we would enforce this law or those provisions relating to free legal aid and then the law which would also regulate it in substance, which is why these most controversial solutions or their implementation in this law are delayed for that time. That's what they say we'd do a little later. This tries to avoid, as far as possible, the bad consequences, but in no way eliminates the fundamental concerns that I have mentioned at the outset. The only logical thing, the only legitimately correct one, would be to regulate everything in a uniform manner, to regulate everything in accordance with the rules already in force, is to negotiate the tariffs accordingly. As for the content of free legal aid, we should no doubt first determine what it is and only then, by law, how to interfere with the existing order and make cuts or, in any other way, change these things. What is currently being done is an act of horrage, is unsystematic and is a reflection of some tribulation, which the government of course is very well aware that the government should have dealt with these things sooner, sooner or later, and even without the National Assembly. Now the responsibility for harmful consequences lies with the National Assembly, for we all know what it is to say when things turn out to be wrong. Yeah, that was accepted by the National Assembly. First of all, this was not accepted by the entire National Assembly. We will certainly not support this in the SDS. We will support exclusively and only our amendment and thus try, at least as much as possible, to mitigate and bring into some systemic framework. On the other hand, I must say that I am very surprised that such an easy-to-think coalition is landing on this logic, so that it puts on it and on people in this national assembly the responsibility for what someone else should have done much earlier and, above all, elsewhere. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that at least this amendment will be adopted, because, while we will be witnessing a very unusual situation caused by the government, when it is actually working on tariffs, then with the novelties of the law that have just been dealt with in the government, it also intends to interfere with the content. When you said, for example, that you should provide free legal advice to the widest possible circle of people, you probably ignored that I had already warned at the beginning that from the novel that is now coming, it would be possible for this institution to be completely short-circuited; it is no longer, if what the government has now prepared is accepted. While many lawyers work because of their code, because of their conscience, they see that the client is not really able to give free legal advice and does not even apply it. It's just left to the lawyer himself. But here, as legislators, we set a framework that must apply to everything and to everything equally. If, after the justice system has come into existence in all its elements – and so is legal counsel is one element of this system, if we view it as a whole – it must be ensured to the greatest extent possible that we are all the same before the law. And that's exactly what this law is cutting, it's creating two castes, two groups, two categories already among the lawyers themselves, as I said before; and what's worse – it's also doing among people. One will be able to access a higher quality, one will not be able to access such quality equally. And then let someone else convince me that there will then be a full constitutional provision on equality before the law and on the right to equal protection of individual rights before the court. This is something that affects the field of human rights, which, through the Constitution itself, Article 15, is not allowed in any way beyond the framework laid down in the Constitution itself. If this law is adopted, it is therefore a high probability, I warn you that it will experience some of its infamous fate, at least in what part, in the Constitutional Court. I don't think it's going to be necessary to wait very long for the groups of people concerned by this law. As we say, with this amendment, we are at least trying to mitigate the most unsystematic effects of this bad law, whereby only the responsibility for the work or failure of someone else is proposed to Parliament; and at least to achieve that at the same time, we are at the same time announcing those laws that will set tariffs and content.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Today there is a parallel debate on the Law on free legal aid, at least I have that impression, and on the Law on Lawyers. I think it is still necessary to look at this slightly differently, because when we talk about free legal aid and, of course, today's topic of discussion – the Law on Lawyering – we are certainly putting ourselves in the position that in doing so, the state guarantees every citizen the right to legal protection. I do not think that this is such an intervention that we could talk about the second-rateness of one or other citizens. Today's debate on the legal tariff itself and the Law on Lawyers is somehow leading to waters that I do not think are the most appropriate place. I would like to stress this here because it is also linked to the proposed amendment. I believe that the Law on Lawyers does not affect the Law on Free Legal Aid by any provision; but it is the Law on Free Legal Aid that refers to the payment of lawyers; namely, Article 30, paragraph 6. It also refers to the way it travels to the application of the legal tariff. This means those who have either been accepted by the Bar or appointed by law by another body. It is essentially a referral to the Law on free legal aid, so I do not think this is an intervention and that this Law on Lawyers does not in any case modify the provisions of that Act, so that it does not interfere with its provisions. I also think that, for this reason, such an amendment is not necessary in such a context. However, I would like to stress once again that we must not forget that the state actually guarantees all citizens the right to first legal advice, legal aid and thus provides them with legal protection. I think that by adopting today's Law on Lawyering we are not actually going to do any harm to this, but this right remains with every citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Surely we can all agree that quick solutions or so - called ad hoc solutions are usually no good anywhere. Even more certainly, we can claim this in the area of justice. Finally, we are quick to violate human rights and how it is in Slovenia, I think we all know. We talk about this a lot, but apparently not enough. I'm sorry we don't listen to each other the best. When you speak of the futility of our amendment, that is simply not the case. The fact is, if we had both laws on the table today, we could simultaneously regulate systemic changes, or we could be closer to systemic changes and measures that could significantly better address the situation that you, of course, want to solve. Well, let me put it this way: it's also an unrealistic statement that the first free aid is not to be lifted. That's not true, you're deceiving it. Look at the proposal in the legislative process or we have received it from Members, and you will see that this is the one that is being abolished. That is why I call on the SMC not to mislead the Slovenian public. Finally, Article 137 of the Constitution on the independence of the judiciary is also a problem in this amendment of the law, as the Bar Association did not cooperate as it should. I think that you have met once, and they have also proposed solutions that have somehow led to the awareness of the difficult situation in the country being the real crisis; but you have not come any further than that. In some ways, you may also be interfering with constitutional matter. Nor is it right that the meetings of the parental committee – which was very turbulent and we have heard from the views that the individual parliamentary groups of the coalition do not agree on these decisions – were attended by none of the representatives of the Supreme Court. Nobody. It is not long before we were invited as the mother body to the Supreme Court, and some of us attended this meeting. There I also called on the representatives of the Supreme Court to attend this national assembly several times and also to answer specific questions. And that's where they were needed. It is a matter of finding in the debate that there is a variety of data; and it is the Supreme Court that has the entire central record; therefore, the indicative calculation of what these consequences will be that is impossible in some way. Of course, this data could not be obtained, and there were no representatives to the parental committee. The meeting also showed that the proposal was flawed and that there was a debate on the content which, of course, should have been addressed much earlier. Finally, the Members of Parliament, who were supposed to take more than the final decision, there was a debate that showed that they were asking or answering matters that should have been settled much earlier. If you rush through this, a respected coalition, you will once again accept the inadequacy that this legal change entails. The proposal for prices of legal services, when a lawyer is appointed under an official duty or for free legal aid, is simply flat-rately set — now it is down to 50% if I am not mistaken. Where'd you get that calculation? I'm asking you, where did it come from? I don't know. You could barant like a defense attorney, even though I believe the defense knows why the barant is, and knows exactly what her goal is. This is not the goal because it is not known what this amount entails. Last but not least, there are no data on the volume of services at annual level, no data on the rights of which either the number of beneficiaries and no data on the amount of the State intends to provide for such needs. It is simple, as the representatives of the Chamber have also said, for an equation with four unknowns. But only the value of a lawyer's point is known. And tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues, what calculation did you come up with? I'm sure it's not me. Even less so, they can be citizens. And the 50% you've set is flat, mindless and irresponsible. Because there is so much confusion, the government risks a lot with this change. Finally, it also risks a fundamental responsibility for its duty to ensure that citizens are represented in the procedures under official responsibility and to provide free legal assistance. I hope you're all aware of the consequences together. It is likely that the constitutional procedure will be followed and that the proceedings will be brought before the European Court of Justice. And not least, why don't you care about equality before marriage? The coalition, full of ethics and morals, and equality before the law is the Spanish village. It would indeed be responsible for the applicants to reconsider the proposal in particular in the sense that we only get some data. Given that these data were not, or were, incredibly contradictory and different, to come up with some concrete calculations and then see what's really going on and what the measure is supposed to be. Ad hoc solution minus 50%, look, this is ridiculous. But you're talking like you're in a store sale, and even there, the merchants know where the border is. We are talking about the rights of citizens and citizens! About free legal aid, about the fact that lawyers will no longer be able to ensure this if the intervention is too high. And you don't even have calculations. Such solutions are bad. And don't be fooled that citizens will still have free services, because you already have a bill in the next process, where you also end it. What about the welfare state? Does anyone else care in this National Assembly, except for a handful of the opposition, who we are torturing here and trying to discuss and convince you of any other measure to do something really concrete for the citizens? You laugh, fellow Member, but you yourself have had a question on the committee that, as I have seen, you have not received a concrete answer. I don't know if that's funny. It'll be funnier when you press your buttons for something you don't even know what it brings. You're taking 50%, and that's it, without calculation, just a little bit of thread. And this is supposed to be an improvement in the state of justice. Please, come on! Let us be realistic and start a little more responsibility in this national assembly! And I hope, above all, I also call on the Slovenian media not to hear that the National Assembly has adopted this amendment to the law. The Slovenian Democratic Party certainly does not exist. And it is right that the Slovenian public hears this. We will never agree to measures that will prevent citizens of constitutional rights. This is a social state and we are all the same before the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u158	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I believe that there is still a need to say something about this law or a change in the law on legal representation. First of all, this law does not affect the law on free legal aid. We have already heard this and I repeat that it does not interfere with the law on free legal aid. However, the country in the budget provides the necessary resources for free legal assistance to all those socially disadvantaged citizens who do not have such revenue to be able to pay their lawyer when they need legal assistance before the courts. Therefore, I do not think that this is a violation of the constitutional provisions mentioned above. On the contrary. The legislator shall ensure equality to all citizens before the courts by means of this law. So this right remains for everyone. In addition, it must be said that there are also more lawyers in the country offering so-called pro bono legal aid, this is free legal aid to citizens who cannot. And sometimes they don't even ask the state to pay for it. I think this marriage is ready. It was explained. The Secretary of State gave a thorough explanation of all procedures, including negotiation and negotiation with lawyers. So I think things are ready as they should be. Of course, the legal rate is also halved to avoid additional budgetary burdens. However, as far as the amendment is concerned, because we are also addressing this amendment by the SDS party, I do not think that this amendment is necessary, so I also said in the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia that we will not support this amendment. Just because you don't need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u160	Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Look, of course it's an intervention. By reducing funds for legal tariffs, it is affecting the area we are talking about. And once again, don't fool. Of course, if there are fewer resources, each lawyer will have to determine on his own whether he is still able to provide any services or not, or to the extent that he wishes. Finally, I do not believe that it is in your interest to support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party even because you do not want us to consider both laws at the same time, which we believe would be closer to a systemic solution, especially because you have introduced a new law as a coalition, where you are lifting free legal aid, a respected Member. You're shutting her down! And don't say that the citizens will have that opportunity. They won't have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u162	Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to reiterate, indeed, to all those once again who may feel somewhat confused here, as they accompany this debate. We are here today talking about the legal tariff, we are talking about the payment of the service, i.e. the payment of the service provided in the context of legal advice. This means that we are talking about still guaranteeing someone the right to legal advice. I don't think it's allowed to talk about this quitting. It's placed in some other frames, but it's not canceled. And I want to say again, and I've already said that before when I was talking about the amendment itself. We are therefore talking today about the tariff, the payment for the service provided. It is important to stress that, precisely because of the human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, it is important that we have the free legal assistance we have and maintain. That right remains with the people. And it is precisely to provide the weakest article in society, to the socially disadvantaged, who would be further threatened by the payment of legal services, or to bring them into a difficult social situation, in order to simply provide them with the legal protection they are obliged to provide by the State, in accordance with constitutional principles and through legal arrangements. And that right remains for all citizens. But the truth is that we are setting tariffs and putting them within some of the frameworks that we are talking about here today. And because of budgetary sustainability, due to the financial situation, the tariff is as proposed as it is. And that is a fact, and unfortunately, we can't. But it is wrong to say that we are violating justice and that we are taking this right because it is not. However, we are proposing a new Law on free legal aid, which will be further discussed and also regulated in another context in the process, as we know. But today, once again, it is not a violation of the law. It is a matter of determining a payment for a particular service which does not infringe or take a right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u164	Gradually, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I'd like to, I think I'm going to do a little bit of breaking right now, but because I can't answer Mrs Gibert in any other way, who really insulted me personally. It is not today about the consideration of the Law on Legal Aid, but we are considering the Law on Lawyers. Mrs Kramar has explained everything well now, so I think that I would say this in a procedural way, that we are sticking to the agenda that we have, and let us not make up and talk about other laws that are not under consideration at this point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u166	Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I would also be happy if we could all talk about the amendments when we discuss them. And we're really gonna confuse the citizens. Your Honor, look, first answer to you. I told you what the problem was. We are, of course, talking about tariffs today. But you invented some amount that doesn't have any financial calculations. And that's the problem. How's that? Go take a look at your magnetograms. I think you were present at this session. If not, take a look. Four strangers. The only thing that's known is the amount that's set for a lawyer. Not everything else. Four strangers. And we are talking about how the amount has been fixed, because even in explaining individual votes, we have found that we will see what this measure brings. We're not quite sure what he's gonna bring. Don't say that lawyers will still be able to provide all the services as they are, because if they don't have the resources, they won't be able to do it. That's just not true. To make the most of it, because if the procedure had been used before, respected colleague, I don't know what insulted you. Or should we consider both marriages? It's just not an insult. You know, both marriages, if they were to support me today, would certainly be closer to a better solution. Otherwise, the consequences will be so visible and will be felt — of course not by you and not by me, but especially by those who are at risk today.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u168	I would ask you not to use procedural and replicas for discussion. I will give again the opportunity to apply for a debate and it is possible to do all these things within this debate. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Yes [[..]] I give the floor to Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't say anything new. However, I feel that certain things need to be heard again. All of this was said and explained on the parental committee, for which many of you were told how long it lasted and how comprehensive the debate was. So it's really nothing new, but it's going to be very clear. Even now, half of the so-called BPP and ex-offo services are paid. Thus, such an arrangement is already in force in accordance with the Law on legal tariffs. The novela in front of you is nothing new. We are simply regulating the situation that will arise when a new legal tariff is imposed, which, as has already been said, is moving to an old system whereby each lawyer is individually evaluated, i.e. to this so-called point system, which means that in most proceedings the lawyers' services will be more expensive. Therefore, with the novelty ahead of you, we intend, or wish, at least where legal services are being paid from the budget, to maintain the level, that is to say, to maintain the costs at the level we now have. That's what I really want. Thus, even now, a lawyer is otherwise rewarded when he finds the service on the market or when he is paid by the state or by the state. So much for that. With regard to the comment or the opinion of Commissioner Möderndorfer that the tariff is being pushed into the law if I sum up his words, I would like to reiterate what I have already warned in the first place, the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 2009, said that the State could also regulate the tariff in the law if it was to protect the public interest. As far as Commissioner Möderndorfer is concerned and the view that the majority of the costs of BPP are intended to pre-empt bankruptcy and that this is not the case in his BPP, and that is why the legal tariff cannot be reduced. So one part of the response to these statements is that, as I said, already after the current regulation, the tariff for BPP and ex-offo is half lower. However, his own part of his reply would have been to say that, at the same time, at the Ministry of Justice, we also lower pre-emptions for bankruptcy. It has been repeatedly exposed that there was no agreement with the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. Look, I was on the board trying to explain very fully, and then somehow I got the impression that I've been too long, and apparently I haven't been enough. We have therefore coordinated with the Bar since October 2013. All this time the tariff has been aligned, all this time it has been in the air that when the talks on BPP and ex-offo representation will have to go to lower amounts. It was nothing surprising, nothing new. The negotiations were in this direction all the time. It is not surprising, however, that consensus on the percentage level has not been reached. I guess it's not too surprising here. Ambassador Grims, if I have summed it up correctly, says that most lawyers will not want to do BPPs and representations on official duty or do worse. Here again my answer is that the current regulation of 2007, 2008, the tariff for BPP and ex offo is therefore half-way, and as I have already mentioned, the regulation has also been proposed or approved by the Constitutional Court in its 2009 decision. In particular, I was surprised to learn that this 50% reduction is determined as ad hoc. I will go back to the parental committee and say, there it was explained, this is also summed up by Mrs Kotnik Popotat, we went to look, when I say, I have in mind the Ministry of Justice, the specific writings of a particular court, to prepare a calculation of the legal costs under the current regulation and calculation under the new tariff, and to find out what the derogation will be, and on this basis we proposed a percentage reduction. These cases have also been specifically presented on the Committee, they are also part of the government's material, and we have also sent you all Members extensive material, where all of these cases are listed. These are specific calculations of concrete procedures. It's written exactly how many readings, how many deposits, how many hours it works. I'm surprised to hear you say it's an ad hoc or something. What else do you want me to say? Well, maybe that's the end of it, even though it's not the subject of today's session, though. Free legal aid, that there will be no dilemma or remain in the air, if I may say so, does not stop free legal aid, so somehow it was heard. With the novel, which will be discussed at the next meeting, I hope we are only changing, we are turning the first legal advice into legal advice. Under the same conditions, more and better quality services will be provided to citizens. This is just so fast, because I'm not going to be specific about the BPP solutions today. At the same time, I will also say this with regard to the BPP, which has been highlighted in the debate, we make it easier for citizens to have access to free legal aid even when the forms are simpler when there are significantly fewer data to be submitted, because most of these data will be obtained by the new service for BPP on official duty with access to the so-called e-social portal. So, so much for BPP. It will be even more accessible and nothing will be removed, only form will change and it will be offered at the same price, if I put it this easily. I hope I responded to most of what was exposed. While I was talking about negotiations with lawyers, I said a lot of meetings, tariffs, we also talked about the novel, we also talked about what lawyers would be willing to offer to citizens, whether in the form of a commitment or in the form of a larger number for a bono day. So our discussions were substantive on several levels, and cost-effective on another way in which lawyers could change and upgrade their services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u170	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you very much. There are some things, Secretary of State, that will have to be cleared up. Such misunderstandings or more loud interpretations occur especially when the ministry wishes to see things go hand in hand because there is no time for serious debate. I regret, however, that the Minister has neither come to the committee nor today, because he would ask him more directly and more easily than if you were speaking on his behalf today, then for certain actions he himself said. Let's do it in a row. At first, the minister was happy and happy that his predecessor had signed, which, of course, he did not need, since then his wife would have rebuffed him, so he almost declared or would probably have been angry. First of all, he probably meant metaphorically, given that his wife was a lawyer, and in this case, they were on two different shores. But if that is true, why, then, because the Ministry of Finance was unable to harmonise the budget and gave the red light and the cost had to be reduced – then why did it go with a lower value than it was originally made? That's the difference. The second thing that seems very important to me, which you have stated today, is the tariff in the law or not, and you refer to the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, which says that you can, you yourself, say, if it is in the public interest. Now you, Secretary of State, explain one thing to me. Why do we place certain tariffs in the public interest in this country, where we systematically regulate them, in a sub-law and in a public interest, in a state of law? What a clever explanation you have not given and, of course, the question is still in place. Why do we regulate tariffs in different ways in the same country? I want to have an argument that will reassure me that in the case of lawyers, the rate can go, and all the other tariffs don't have to go to law. And answer me, I asked you this question, and I didn't get this answer on the committee, and I'm going to ask it again – what would you do if inflation were involved? Would you go out every month to change the law or what? We have a serious problem, so it makes sense that this doesn't go to law school. We probably won't change in the National Assembly, but we'll just keep dealing with tariffs. This is a matter that is the substance of the executive and can be ordered by the minister himself. Of course, there are also procedures for this and at the government confirm its proposal or amendment, which is professional, justified and reasoned. Unlike the National Assembly, the government comes not only as a political representative to the National Assembly but also on behalf of the professional decision. This is a difference that also gives this weight to the body, why this could not be in marriage. Then the third thing that is very important to me is, above all, that I still have no answer, why would we do a novelty to BPP and not treat tariffs at the same time. Why we have to deal with the tariff first, and then we'll be a novelty later, and I don't know when it's gonna be time for the procedure and it's probably going to be a regular process and you'll come to the National Assembly with this proposal once a second year, if it comes to it. I don't know why we can't do this at the same time, so I absolutely support the amendment proposed by the amendment, which has been given to enter into force with the amendment. Until then, there's no need. Why? Then we will also see what fits and what does not fit in the service itself. Of course I'm thinking right. However, if I think wrong, it will be a long time before the minister tells us what is the only saving and proper and right thing to do here in the National Assembly. In addition, the Secretary of State, you have made a very sovereign appearance and said certain things, but if we read the tapegram and the opinions of the Bar, you did not challenge them. And that really bothers me. And if you've listened very carefully to me at the beginning, I must say that your proposal was very nice. When he came to the table, I also supported him at the College because I thought it was a routine matter. It was only on the committee that the matter turned out to be inconsistent. And this, I am reading to you, Mr Roman Završk, once again, you probably don't have to read it because you were on the same committee, but we have a problem because half of the Members weren't on the committee. That's why I repeat those words. And it's very clear what they're proposing. And they also suggested when and how things should change. The representatives of the Bar said very clearly: first the novelties and then the tariff. You don't say no to me. First the tariff, then the novelties. I'm talking about the new BPP. We'll get along. What's going on, or are we going to make a difference? In that context. Because I was very clear when I said that I believe that bankruptcy of legal and natural persons is not really the matter of BPP. And that's what they said at the Bar. That's what we're waiting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u172	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, I believe that the Secretary of State is in an awkward position because he has to defend something that would otherwise be right to have a minister here. However, we do well to make it clear to all here in the hall and to those who accompany us. What records did you take in the calculations? Certainly not a single record of the Supreme Court. Is that right? And that's what the House has disputed. You also did not take the records of the District Courts. Is that right? But you took the records of one court, and this is the District Court in Ljubljana. Just why? If the others haven't seen it, I'll tell them. Because we all know exactly that the Ljubljana District Court is also dealing with cases where there is a somewhat higher level of value for disputes. And then, of course, this tide is slightly different. On the other hand, we have district courts where procedures have extremely low value. I therefore stressed that it is imperative that this law and others take systematic steps. But not that way. Not that way. You just did the math you wanted. Of course, I believe that you may also have followed that in Slovenia we have some lawyers who are rich not only at the expense of citizens and citizens, but also the countries themselves. They're one of the richest Slovenians. Of course that's the problem. However, by doing so, we do not alter the basic problem that, on the other hand, with such a measure as minus 50, so little by little, you will influence the work of lawyers, I will say not houses, but more individuals who will no longer be allowed to do business. They warned and also wrote that no one in this country would be able to force them to do something that does not even cover the basic costs. And that's true. And that's the problem we're talking about. That's why I think it's an ad hoc solution. Because we could obtain central records, look at the facts, and then also assess how to make these changes and interfere with the law so that they do not be deprived citizens. For with this we shall first deprive them of them. Of course, we will not do anything in the field of legal services where money is literally flying together.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u174	Anybody else want to discuss this? I give the floor to Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u175	I owe you a few more answers. Why is he tariffing in the Law on Lawyers? Here again, it must be said that we do not set tariffs with this novelty. Tarifo was accepted by the Bar Association at the 23rd Assembly. This year's 9th. With the novelty we only determine the percentage paid in the case of BPP and ex offo representation. The height of the point, the number of points for each act, all of this is set out in the tariff. So once again, in the novel only percent for BPP and ex offo cases. It is true, I agree, that the Chamber could also set lower tariffs for both BPP and ex-offo, but it did not. So once again, here's just a percentage, everything else, as far as legal services are concerned, is recorded in a tariff to be published in a short time. There is something else to be said about the calculations to be made on the increase or the changes that the new legal rate will bring. We did not look at some central data, we, as I said, went to precisely calculate, look at the printing costs and make specific calculations. But we don't just do this for the District Court in Ljubljana, but let's say for the District Court in Slovenj Gradc, which writes here, I have here, I'm going to say in concrete terms, two fair proceedings. In one, now I'm not going to give you all the parameters here, then I can give you the document. In short, it is clearly calculated and written that in the event that the proposed reduction does not go into the proposed reduction, even 201 % more in the case of BPP representation would be obtained by a new lawyer in one fair procedure, in the case of BPP, in the other case, 59% more, if we do not go into a reduction. And since in most cases these percentages are such as to justify a 50% reduction, we have decided to reduce at this level. I want to say this, not only Ljubljana, but also other courts send similar calculations. That's why we went through the emergency procedure in this change, as I said, and that's why it's so necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u176	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of the law on the additions of the building laws to the construction of the buildings after a reduced procedure. The proposal for a law was submitted by the MEP to the assembly for consideration. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 3rd meeting, on 26. 11. 2014 as a parent working body was considered by the draft law on additions to the Construction of Buildings Act, which was submitted by the MEP to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Government, the State Council, a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, whose opinions on the proposed Law on Complementation of the PGI were rejected. The Government’s position was rejected by the argument that such a proposal constitutes an anti-constitutional interference with the rights of foreign participants in the process of issuing a building permit. Similarly, the Government’s opinion or position was accompanied by a representative of the ZPS, who explained their written opinion. The representative of the State Council, Jernej Verbič, stressed that, even in the State Council, they do not support and join the Government's opinion that the issue of duplication of procedural acts, the rights of foreign participants, and consequently the problem of long-term procedures for obtaining a building permit should be addressed systematically. The amendments to the bill were not tabled. At a meeting of the Committee, the following decision was adopted by 16 votes in favour and no "against" was adopted: The proposal for a law on the addition of the Construction of Buildings Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u178	I give the floor to the proposer of the Magi bill. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In 2009, the National Community of Ankara gave an initiative to the Constitutional Court to review the decisions of the Municipality of Koper, which regulated the construction of the apartment settlements of Ankaran hill and Altra. The Constitutional Court immediately after the introduction of the initiative suspended the execution of the said municipal spatial acts and the execution of construction works. Later, in accordance with its powers, it decided not only to review municipal spatial acts but also the Law on the Construction of Buildings in the Work where it determines the parties in the process of issuing the building permit. The problem arose because the above-mentioned Ankaran case was broken for a number of other investment cases in Slovenia, where only investors were allowed to issue construction permits. The Constitutional Court has introduced the same rules concerning the situation of parties and party participants for the procedure for issuing a building permit as provided for in the General Administrative Procedure Act. This is a problem, according to our assessment, because it affects the longevity of these procedures and the overload of all decision-making rates. Both the environmental consent procedure and the building permit process are independent administrative procedures, which also means the obligation to take account of all procedural actions, including the rights of party participants, and I stress this, in both procedures. More simply, one or the same persons may appear in both procedures, with similar or different requirements, as in some foreign participants the main objective of cooperation is to oppose the project under the principle of 'not before my threshold'. We would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposed solutions are primarily aimed at major projects of both national and local importance, where adverse environmental impacts are expected and where environmental impact assessments are needed with stricter and more demanding requirements. We can also expect that the public will repeatedly oppose such projects. Therefore, the basic objective of the proposed amendments to the Act is to shorten the procedure for issuing a building permit in such a way as to prevent individuals and other persons from participating as party participants in the process of issuing an environmental consent or environmental protection authorisation. The analysis carried out by the World Bank, which assessed the impact of environmental and spatial legislation on small and medium-sized enterprises, shows that there is a need for an investor to carry out 10 procedures with an average duration of 189 days and that in Germany 9 procedures are required to obtain a building permit and on average a permit is issued within 97 days. Denmark has an average period of 67 days and only 66 days in Finland. As we are aware that the proposed solution represents one of the possibilities for shortening procedures and that the Government is planning to revise construction legislation, we have also listened to the position of the Government, or the competent district minister, who is well aware of the problems mentioned. The Minister expressed understanding in the talks to achieve the objective that we are following. Given the content of the discussions and the views exchanged, we have decided not to insist on the proposal for a law. However, we have committed ourselves to actively working together to develop appropriate solutions within the framework of the system-wide legislative changes to be prepared by the competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u180	I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Ms Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, to present my position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, honourable President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! It's a Magnificent message. On the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček submitted a proposal for a law on additions to the Law on the Construction of Buildings. The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the law is to shorten the procedure for issuing a building permit in such a way as to prevent individuals and other persons from participating as party participants in the process of issuing an environmental consent or environmental protection authorisation. The government expresses its rejection of the proposed law and opposes the proposed amendments to the building law. This is justified by the non-constitutional interference with the rights of party participants in the process of issuing a building permit. The content of the assessment in environmental protection procedures and in the construction permit process is different. Therefore, by-passengers who are or could participate in the environmental consent or authorisation process may have a completely different objection in the construction permit process. For example, in order to comply with the provisions of spatial acts as they are entitled to be presented in environmental procedures. By such exclusion, those persons would in fact be deprived of any possibility of effectively protecting their legal benefits in the process of issuing a building permit and would therefore constitute an exercise of the right referred to in Article 22 of the Constitution. While the Government is aware of the problems of duplication of procedural actions and of the rights of foreign participants arising from an existing regulatory system in which environmental consent or environmental authorisation and building permit are implemented in separate, independent administrative procedures, it is felt that systemic and not partial approaches should be taken to address this problem, taking into account the constitutional framework. It is for this reason that we are planning to reform the legislation towards the full integration of the procedures described into a single administrative procedure, which would end with a comprehensive decision and in which, due to planned integration, the prescribed procedural actions, requirements and rights of the parties, including legal remedies, would no longer be submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u182	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the SMC Group of Members, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u183	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and distinguished representative of the Ministry! The proposal for that law focuses on the addition or amendment of Article 62 of the Construction Act, which defines the parties to the procedure for issuing a building permit. The fundamental purpose of this proposal, which is based on the proposal of the Law on the Complementation of the Construction of Buildings Act, is to prevent the duplication of procedures and the participation of individuals and other persons as party participants in environmental impact assessment procedures to be carried out in the premises where such an assessment is to be carried out prior to the issue of a building permit. The procedures for issuing the building permit should be reduced in this way and this solution should also contribute to greater investor certainty in the process of obtaining the building permit. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Legal and Legal Service and the Council of State have given a negative opinion on the Proposal for a Law on the Complementation of the Construction of Buildings Act and have pointed out that the proposal for a law in certain places is inaccurate, flawed and in some places its decisions would even be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Although it correctly notes that the proposed law on additions to the Law on the Construction of Buildings correctly states that it is necessary to recast and simplify the procedure, a law as important as the Law on the Construction of Buildings is very partisan. While the amendments cited would be very welcome when they are incorporated into a broader and more comprehensive reform of the law itself. These should also systematically and objectively focus on other aspects of problem resolution, such as the sharing of decision-making powers or dilemmas around the transfer of authority to local level, the elimination of different administrative barriers and burdens, the procedural timing of administrative decisions in the area of construction of buildings, the vertical and horizontal integration of institutions in the issuance of building permits and the integration of registers and databases in the field of environment and space. Regrettably, however, these aspects of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Construction of Buildings Act have not been taken into account to a large extent and are still inconsistent. The proposal for a law on additions to the Construction of Buildings Act due to various substantive shortcomings and an inadequate system approach does not constitute a comprehensive solution. Of course, on the other hand, it is very encouraging that things begin to move and that there is a growing awareness that certain building issues need to be fundamentally changed. This issue has direct negative effects in several key development areas and would be one of the most important commitments in the field of environment and space in this mandate. As mentioned, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space rejected this proposal as its parent body. For those reasons, this proposal was also rejected by the SMC Group of Members. Of course, in the Mir Cerar Group of Members, we are fully aware that the procedures for obtaining building permits are very long. I myself come from Koroška, where you get a building permit for a residential facility within seven days, so that we also fully support this initiative and will make sure that, within the Ministry of Environment and Space, a comprehensive legal solution will be adopted as soon as possible, allowing these procedures to be reduced both for natural persons and for economic societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u184	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u185	Dear President, Minister, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not support the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Construction of Buildings Act. In this case, we join the negative opinion of the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service and their position that the problem of duplication of procedural acts and the rights of foreign participants should therefore be regulated systematically and not merely through partial solutions. In relation to the scope of the problem and the starting point of the normative changes in the area of the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings, as confirmed by the previous government in 2014, and the work programme of the Directorate for Environment and Space in 2014, I expect from the current government that a deadline should be set for the submission of comprehensive revised legislation in the area of the regulation of premises and the construction of facilities, and also assumes responsibility if it fails to achieve its objectives within the prescribed time limit. In our view, when applying for a building permit, the investor should obtain a list of all the documents and consents required in this procedure. On the date of submission of the complete application, the deadline for issuing the building permit should begin to run, thereby ensuring greater certainty and legal certainty for the investor. The proposed solution, however, is one of the possibilities of shortening procedures, but it is two separate administrative procedures. Environmental consent or this procedure is intended to assess environmental impacts. In the process of issuing a building permit, by-products exercise completely different rights. If these party participants who are already involved in the environmental impact assessment process were not to take into account the process of obtaining a building permit, this would prevent them from exercising their rights under the law of the guaranteed rights. As it is said, the amendment of the law interferes with constitutionally guaranteed rights, so we do not support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u186	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u187	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law supplementing the Construction of Objects Act is not suitable for further consideration. This brings us together with the opinion of the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Council of State and, after all, the proposer himself that the proposal does not offer appropriate solutions. The solutions contained in the proposal provide that in the procedure for issuing a building permit, persons who have or could have participated as party participants in environmental consent or authorisation procedures should not cooperate if the environmental consent or permit is a condition for issuing a building permit. Therefore, the environmental impact assessment process cannot effectively protect the legal benefits associated with the eligibility of construction and cannot effectively protect the legal benefits associated with environmental protection. According to the assessment of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government, the proposed regime could be inconsistent with Article 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which gives everyone the opportunity to participate in a procedure in which its benefits or rights are decided. Also in the Desus Group, we agree with the assessment that the proposed solutions are an anti-constitutional interference with the rights of foreign participants in the process of issuing a building permit. We believe, however, that the problem of duplication of procedural actions and of the poles of foreign participants and, as a consequence, the problem of long-term procedures for obtaining a building permit must be systematically regulated. This is also the view of the competent ministry, as these issues are still well aware. The Government is therefore already planning to revise legislation towards the full integration of the prescribed procedures and a single administrative procedure that would end with a comprehensive decision, in which, due to planned integration, the prescribed procedural actions, requirements and rights of foreign participants, including legal remedies, would no longer be duplicated. In doing so, the Government must take into account the constitutional legal framework so that the parties to the proceedings do not violate the constitutional right. As I said at the beginning of the presentation of the position, Mr Desus will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u188	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Government! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a decision by the parent working body, whereby the proposal for a law on additions to the Construction of Buildings Act is not suitable for further consideration. However, the bill tabled by Mrs Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, a member of Parliament, has nevertheless raised the right questions, according to our opinion. The basic objective of the amendment is to introduce such a solution that would temporarily shorten the procedure for issuing a building permit and thus contribute to greater investor certainty. However, the solution envisaged by the amendment would mean that duplication of the participation of individuals and others as party participants in environmental impact assessment procedures and later in the construction process would no longer be possible. At first glance, such a solution may seem logical and reasonable, but the proposed way is not right. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and also on the basis of the opinion of the Government, we can conclude that the adoption of such a solution is likely to be contrary even to the Constitution. It is necessary to know that the environmental consent or authorisation procedure, on the one hand, and the procedure for issuing the building permit, on the other hand, are two separate and separate administrative procedures. In so doing, it is considered that the requirement to grant a request for a building permit is pre-authorised to complete the environmental consent or authorisation procedure. As a consequence, the independence of the procedures mentioned above means that both procedures must also take into account the possibilities for the exercise of the rights of party to them. In doing so, it is essential to stress that the exercise of the rights of participants in proceedings can be completely different. So those that cannot be implemented either in one or only in another procedure. In view of the above, it is necessary to approach such amendments in a more sound and systematic manner and to ensure that individuals or legal persons are not prevented from participating in all those procedures in which their rights or legal benefits are decided, which the Constitutional Court has specifically pointed out in one of its decisions. Notwithstanding the above, the fact that the procedures for issuing environmental approvals and the procedures for issuing construction permits are too long. Part of this is the duplication of procedural actions and the rights of foreign participants in these procedures. The government had already addressed the problems of this duplication before and adopted in November 2013 a starting point for normative changes in the area of the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings. The baselines assume that the current procedures would now be integrated into a single administrative procedure where such duplications would no longer occur and the process would end with a comprehensive solution. In the Social Democrats Group, we therefore expect the competent ministry or the Government to tackle these issues intensively and propose solutions that will be more comparable, for example with neighbouring Austria, where such procedures are faster and where the way in which all stakeholders participate in these processes is faster and more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u190	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the third session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u191	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to break the 14th item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: The National Assembly agrees to the Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 24. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, as the parent working body of the National Assembly, proposes that it agree to amend and supplement the Foundation's rules. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Mother Records of Insurance and Users of Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled today, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 8. An explanation of the voice? Before I give the floor to my first explanation of vote, I will read once again for every case what I have read yesterday: The explanation of vote is not controversy, addressing, convincing, calling or asking questions, which is the object of the debate, but it is a presentation of the substantive reasons why the Group or Member will vote in favour or against the proposed solution. I add that we separate the explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members and the explanation of vote on its behalf, which is logical and substantive when and or if it separates itself from the explanation of the vote of the Group of Members. I'm not saying business isn't possible. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I announce that I will follow your instructions and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as always. I say that the New Slovenia Group will vote against this amendment. This amendment actually overtakes the amendment of New Slovenia, which was adopted on the home working body, and this is not right. This amendment, proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups, is likely to arise at the time of its eventual adoption. I think the National Assembly should think carefully before adopting constitutionally controversial solutions. We will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u193	Any other explanation for the voice? Yeah. On behalf of the SMC Group, Mrs Janja Slug has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u194	We will, of course, vote in favour of the amendment in the SMC Group. We will also vote in favour of the novel. The proposed law extends the deadline for the harmonisation of disputed status of insurers. This will help to maintain their activities, help to maintain jobs based on these espies, ensure that the consequences arising from determining the characteristics of insurers, in accordance with the implementation of Article 406 of the Law of ZPIZ 2. It is also positive that it is possible for family pensioners who have obtained student status for the academic year 2014/2015 to graduate before the end of the study year to be paid their pensions also during this interim period. That is why we support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u195	Any other explanation for the voice? Mr Jernej Vrtovec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u196	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! I will vote against the proposed amendment for one fundamental reason, and that is the principle of fairness. For you are returning, contrary to what has been accepted on the Committee, that the cut-off date remains 31. 12. 2012. And by doing so, you pushed 11 pensioners into an uneven position, who also had a craftsmanship. In the end, you will be forced to open this law in one month — you will see that this will be the case, and you will go into this same change because, according to some constitutional lawyers, what you are proposing is constitutionally controversial. You can't tell someone she can't receive her pension. And ye yourselves, even in Desus, speak: the pension, the right from the work. Then do something to make the pension work. To those pensioners who had both business activities, the company, you're making this impossible. There's 11 of them. There are 11 before the date of 31. 12. 2012. In New Slovenia we wish you only and only good. That is why we have already proposed on the committee this amendment so that we do not deal with this issue in one month, two months, three months. You'll have problems again when 11 people are knocking on your soul, knocking on the door of the Ministry, sentinel groups, and saying they're in a criminal position. For this reason, I do not call, but I only suggest that you vote well against the proposed amendment in yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u197	This would be a procedural explanation of vote, formalistically speaking, and the substantive amendment of the text does not mean much. But it doesn't matter. Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. So we can vote on this amendment. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 53, and the vote was 18. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 8 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. No, no, no. So we can move on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your own name? Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to explain her voice on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u198	Your Honor! In my name, I will support this amendment of the law, but with reservation. As my colleagues have already mentioned, I don't like this law just extending. For the second time, the Ministry of Labour has been extending the implementation of this law, and I think that, in particular, given that there is the same team at the Ministry, at that time, we should prepare a systematic change in order for all pensioners to be equal in terms of employment through their espionage and work through their espionage and other forms of work that are allowed to retirees. This novelty of marriage is again some fireman's maneuver, but I'll back him up because I can't see a better solution at any given moment. I understand pensioners who are really in trouble right now because of these restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u199	Any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we turn to the vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Home Records for Insurance and Users of the Rights of Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the Authority and the fund for the resolution of banks as a matter of urgency. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 17. 12. 2014, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u200	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! If you don't mind, I'd explain both the 14th and the 15th amendments in one package because they're quite similar. Both amendments will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have found that the law that we are about to vote on is extremely poorly written, with considerable legal gaps, but that the key issue, which is also missing, is that the Bank of Slovenia's responsibility to inform the general public about this agreement. I am pleased that, in the debate on these amendments in the National Assembly, so that the Secretary of State has supported such an amendment so that it does not oppose it, the amendment does not also oppose it as a carrier of this law, and I also expect from the coalition Members and Members that you will support the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party by 14th and 15th Article. This is an important matter because, through the debate, we have found that despite the establishment of a bank fund to be managed and managed by the Bank of Slovenia, we can also talk about tax money indirectly here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u201	Mrs Marush Škopac has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u202	Amendments to Articles 14 and 15 of the Act on the Authority and Bank Resolution Fund require Banka Slovenije to make public the list of banks that have paid cash into the fund, the list of banks that have not paid their shares and the list of banks that have received aid from that fund, as well as the amount of payments to each bank. Furthermore, Article 15 of the Bank of Slovenia requires the publication of a list of banks to be invited to make additional payments to that fund. At this point, I should like to point out that in the SMC Group we agree with the SDS Group's proposal, and we believe that the proposed amendment will contribute to greater transparency in the functioning of the Bank Resolution Fund. That is why we will also support both amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u203	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased that we are rational and that we are talking about the amendment to Articles 14 and 15 and I announce my support for the amendment to Articles 14 and 15. A member. I am pleased that both the Government, the Bank of Slovenia and the entire coalition have somehow listened to the debate, particularly the opposition MPs and Members, both on the committee and today on the plenary, and that we all understand that in fact these two amendments are a step towards greater transparency in the functioning of the Slovenian state, unfortunately still the state banking system. So our support here for both amendments is assured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u205	On behalf of the SD Group, Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I think that the time when we stop saving in Slovenia will be slow enough to tell these banks that for these bank holes that some managers have made, they will also answer and that we will not argue about a million, two, three, how we will pull them out of, I will say, some laws or some people, but that bankers will somehow be responsible for their actions. If this amendment tabled by the SDS, and I don't care if it is the opposition or the position, will help to increase transparency, then both of us will be supported by the Social Democrats. However, I would appeal to the Government, the Bank of Slovenia, to redecorate such matters, to listen first, so that no amendments will be needed at the meeting itself, because I sometimes find this unproductive. If they want to change some laws quickly, they also need to be changed quickly with some thought. We will support these two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u207	Mr Franc Jurša has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, President. We too will support the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party by Articles 14 and 15. I hope this is some new start to that joint action you've been talking about so many times. Any good proposal that comes from your side, we are probably also prepared to support in the coalition. Of course, he must be well-intentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u209	Any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you, President. I don't know where I'm going with you, but I've raised myself in front of my two colleagues, but I can easily see that I'm too far away from you. It's just that it goes along with how small you are, you're just so observant. However, I am very glad that from yesterday to today, the SMC Group has actually learned something. She also learned this afternoon because this afternoon I had the impression that these amendments would not receive support. More important than that, because we all have a lesson together, we have a package ahead of us, a bouquet after a reduced procedure, so that the call to the government is no longer valid because it is already in the National Assembly, but an invitation to the coalition to change these things a little bit. So, colleague Han, this was an empty shot, but it was well said. I agree. We will support these two amendments, and I believe that these amendments will make it easier to live with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u211	We have ended with explanations of vote, so we can vote on these two amendments. We first vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 15 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 14 and 15 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. No, no, no. Then we move on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that due to amendments adopted in other proceedings, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u212	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will not support the proposed Authority Law and Bank Resolution Fund in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We won't support him for a number of reasons. The fact is that we were not satisfied with all the answers provided by the proponents and the Bank of Slovenia at the debate on the Committee on Finance today. The fact is that this proposed law lacks the opinion of the European Central Bank. We have not received a satisfactory answer as to why this law is adopted in a swift and urgent manner. We have not received a satisfactory response to the warnings that this law has a lot of legal emptiness, that it is a flawed one, we have not received a satisfactory answer, whether it agrees or opposes the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the banks. From the very debate we have come to the conclusion that this law is, in fact, one fire extinguisher and that, despite everything in Slovenia, there will be some refugees compared to other European countries. The European Directive calls for similar funds to be set up by 2016. We have cases in Germany, France, the Netherlands that solve these funds differently. A problem we see why this fund needs to be filled within three months. By comparison, Germany has given itself eight years. Germany will charge this fund from bank profits and the key to payment is also a balance sheet sum. In Slovenia, the bill is intended to be paid out of guaranteed deposits following this proposal. We know that in Slovenia we have actually nationalised all the banks. In the last week, we nationalized the Celje Bank. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that this law is adopted quickly only because of the rapid circulation of the 2015 budget and that this law will be able to resolve one of the private banks in Slovenia. The vice-governor himself said that before this fund was pumped, the owners would have to recapitalise the banks. And given the fact that we have nationalised the largest banks in Slovenia, taxpayers will still not avoid the rehabilitation of banks. We do not object to such an agreement, but we oppose such a law by means of a swift procedure. We estimate that it would be significantly better to involve the general public in addressing such an important law and to take more time to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u213	Mrs Marush Škopac has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u214	In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal for an organ law and a bank resolution fund. We will support it because we believe that the law will provide the appropriate instruments for the effective treatment of banks in difficulty. In doing so, the bill provides that the funds of the Fund may be used to save banks only if there is a public benefit to their use and that the assessment is on the Bank of Slovenia's side. In doing so, it should be stressed that the fund’s assets should not be spent to cover the losses of the bank, but only to recapitalise the bank after the bank’s balance sheets have been cleared. The bill thus represents an important assurance that the resolution of possible new banks in difficulty will not go under the budget of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u215	Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u216	Thank you very much, President. The Desus Group will support the proposed law, as we have also supported all amendments, hoping that banks will operate well or well and that this accumulation of funds in this pool, in this pool, will not be necessary in this context. However, if necessary, this is a better way than a way for taxpayers' funds from the budget to be allocated to any need for rescue, rehabilitation or anything. I am particularly pleased that this law will receive a lot of support, especially given the fact that we have practically unitedly supported all the opposition amendments, so that the matter will be even more transparent. I will be pleased that this law, as it is said, will receive support, with the hope of supporting at least part of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u217	Is there any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. So we can vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 14. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 7th item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Advocacy by Emergency Procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 17. 12. 2014, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4a. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u218	Thank you very much, President. We're not going to support this marriage. We won't support him for the first time because we didn't get the right answers. It is also more than clear that we will never first build a house, and then we will find out whether we have built it on our own land or not, whether it is ours or whatever it is. Here the order was confused for one simple reason, which is also one of the reasons why the minister did not hope to come to the committee or to the parliamentary debate to explain why we should not first consider the novel on free legal aid, define what it is, and then determine the appropriate price as well as the argument that the ministry could succeed. Of course we're going the other way. I think there's a lot of damage done. In particular, damage is done because we are opening up a new practice so that we can actually do what we want. Also, once again, call on the coalition to refer to the system-wide handling of matters. This is a typical example of how not to regulate systemically. But today you'll be for non-systemic. But tomorrow you're going to warn me again that you won't support anything because you're going to be saving the system. So understand systematically, who can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u219	Any other explanation for the voice? On behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, we can't support the law. Last but not least, I will be interested to see how individual parliamentary groups will vote, given that Mr Han said in one of the debates that it is necessary to think somehow about the functioning of the government, how to approach the proposed laws after some quick ad hoc solutions, which then mean only additional amendments. We simply cannot support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party because it is constitutionally controversial. We have also been warned about this by the Legislative and Legal Service, and many more have been determined by these controversial provisions. Finally, the system is also problematic as to how calculations have been made. They are a problem because, as the secretary presented today, that is simply not possible. They took some individual cases and then made some kind of a stop sign. But they didn't want to go over the records that the Supreme Court had. I believe that the matter will be problematic and that we cannot support such solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u221	Ms Ksenija Kramar Korenjak has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you very much. In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal. We believe that today we are discussing and deciding on a novelty that mainly relates to the setting of tariffs, i.e. the determination of the percentage of the reduction in payment for services to be paid by the State. It is therefore not an infringement of the right to grant citizens access to BPP, but it is essentially a matter of determining the percentage of the reduction by which the State will pay the services of BPP, which will in any way guarantee to us, citizens, the right to legal protection, which is in accordance with respect for fundamental human rights, which is in accordance with the constitutional provisions we are bound by. In this light, we will support the amendment of the Law on Lawyers. It is also worth noting that this novel does not affect the provisions of the BPP Act. Thank you very much. We'll support the marriage in every way.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-03.ana.u223	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we can vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 20 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Construction of Buildings by Short Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the building law is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against and none against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
