ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Irena Tavčar, Janja Attack, Dragutin Mate, Ivan Hršak and Bojan Starman. I invited the President of the Government, the Ministers and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representatives of the 5,000 elections and voters to the 13th item of the agenda, the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal, on the 22nd item of the agenda, the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, on the 23rd item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 19 March 2014, by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of a single item from the agenda, so we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal for an extension of the agenda. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 23rd session be extended by consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Real Estate Tax Act, urgent procedure, EPA 1857-VI. You received a proposal to extend the agenda on Tuesday 25 March 2014. Would you like a representative of the proposaler for enlargement? The president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy apologized for this meeting and the Vice-President is not announced to present the report. So I ask, does the Government's representative wish to propose a bill? He doesn't want to. Does the representative of the proposed bill, the group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, wish to speak? He does. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Government, fellow Member and fellow Members! We oppose that this item of the agenda should be included in this meeting of the National Assembly. It is a law that, following an unusual procedure, by ignoring all civil society, all those affected by the law, and despite the opposition in the National Assembly, the Government has adopted solutions that have asymmetrically affected many economic societies, farmers, rurals and also many social groups. This law is in the Constitutional Court on the basis of initiatives or the requirements of a number of initiators. And given that tomorrow's oral announcement of the Constitutional Court's decision, it would be wise for the Government and the others to wait at least long enough to know and see what the Constitutional Court's decision will be and where the Government's proposal, which was forcefully adopted, is constitutionally controversial. Only on this basis would it make sense to approach the amendment of the law. The government is obviously a different opinion. Unfortunately, the President of the Government did not explain her decision as to why she was coming to the National Assembly following an emergency procedure with the amendment of the law. However, even this procedure did not take into account virtually nothing, no comments from the preliminary examination of the law, that is to say that what is before the Constitutional Court did not take into account any additional opinions, the observations of the Slovenian Democratic Party and other amendments were ignored. We are now here, where we are, in a situation where we will be able to adopt a law with certain solutions even to articles that may be repealed in the process. Perhaps even articles that will be repealed in the constitutional audit procedure. We therefore propose that this law should not be placed on the agenda. In fact, the problem is that the government acts very arrogantly, does not take any opinions into account, and so does the coalition in the National Assembly. The big words about civil society and the public being taken into account on the one hand, but when concrete proposals are made on the other, in fact nothing is taken into account. I must say that we have also obstructed the committee's meeting on the basis of the reasons I said when this law is being considered. This is said to await the decision of the Constitutional Court and also because our amendments were not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you. I would like to ask you further if you would like the representatives of the groups of Members to speak. I note that he wishes to speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Mr. Shircel. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ministers and ministers! The Real Estate Tax Act was proposed by the Government following an emergency procedure, without general discussion in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is the institution that has the role of determining the systemic law, such as the Real Estate Tax Act, from this point of view. This did not happen, and therefore this law was passed after a night debate in the early morning, adopted in the manner of the voting machine of the coalition and in disregard of the amendments of the opposition and also in disregard of the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have warned and still think that the law is unconstitutional, so we have taken the initiative to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court will declare its decision on Friday. Today we are actually in some kind of legislative void, which is also with the amendment of this law, as proposed by the Government, we cannot solve. It is not in the honour of the National Assembly to disrespect the Constitutional Court to the extent that it waits for the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has a special role in each country and is particularly concerned that the Constitution is being implemented. There are six initiatives in the Constitutional Court to declare this law unconstitutional. This means, in other words, that if declared unconstitutional or the whole law or part of the law, then the law will not actually apply. And it would be wise for the National Assembly to respect the initiatives of the applicants and not place this law on the agenda today or tomorrow in order to deal with tomorrow. We will create a legislative chaos and the Slovenian Democratic Party does not want to participate in the creation of this chaos, so we propose that this law is not placed on the agenda and is not dealt with at this meeting, but after the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you. The following will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Franci Bogovic, followed by the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Nice greetings from the distinguished President of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the President of the Government and the entire ministerial assembly! Also in the Slovenian People's Party, we have a similar view that in this law, which I think is really becoming a real nightmare not only of the government, ministers, parliaments, but also of the Slovenes and Slovenes, they will finally take into their own hands and adopt this law in a procedure that would not cause new confusion. It has already been said that by the end of March the Constitutional Court will have ruled on this law. As we removed from the agenda the proposal of colleagues from Nova Slovenije, where they wanted to solve the fire problem, the conditions for the Government, Parliament, to force the Finance Committee again, to make some strange decisions, to try to make a hybrid between the two laws, between the law tabled by colleagues from SDS and the government law, which is under urgent procedure. He was merely a manoeuvre to withdraw from the agenda this proposal from the opposition and to consider the law proposed by the Government at this meeting following an urgent procedure. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree with the solutions that are in this novel, saying that non-residential and residential housing are equal. This is what we wanted to achieve in the end with the amendment. We also agree that there will be a need to extend our hands, for we see that all our calendars in this law have collapsed. However, we did not agree in any way, and today we do not agree that this is to be decided before the Constitutional Court judges. Among you is the last person to join this team among ministers, Minister Dragonja, who has proposals on crafts, where solutions need to be made so that this tax will not be nearly two and a half times higher than it was in the past. The proposals are certainly also about other things in the field of agriculture and so on. It would therefore be right, wise and also worthy of the Constitutional Court, especially now that we have in our hands an invitation to an oral declaration of decisions in the procedure for assessing the Real Estate Tax Act by the Constitutional Court on Friday at half past twelve, not to place this law on the agenda today. In the calendar itself, we are scheduled for Tuesday for an extraordinary session when we have archival legislation, take advantage of this date and place this property tax law at an extraordinary meeting. And on Tuesday, when we have known the decision of the Constitutional Court, when we know more about what the Constitutional Judges tell us, let us adopt a law that will apply. I am firmly convinced that the law will be returned to another stage, but if correction is needed, let us correct it by means of an urgent procedure so that the law can be adopted. Otherwise, we'll deal with this law again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Member State of positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President. Given that in reality those who are watching us do not really know what Mr Tanko is proposing and what the opposition is discussing. It is indeed a so-called fully legitimate step, which you, Mr Tanko, have taken on several occasions when you were in my role. Let me remind you, for example, one year and a half ago, when we introduced a new law on the management of property or with the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, you or the then Minister Šuštaršič submitted a novel, pardon, not a novel, but a law on SDH and thus made a hybrid. No matter how you actually look at it, there is one task that is special and important in this whole matter. The Executive has every right to act quickly when it comes to matters that need to be decided. Regardless of what you actually proposed to wait for the Constitutional Court, you know that the Constitutional Court today announced that a public oral announcement would be made on Friday at 11.30 p.m. but added the following, which is very important that the possible preliminary adoption of the Law on Real Estate Tax in the National Assembly would not delay the publication of the decision, as stated by the Constitutional Court. So our task is to act as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible in the National Assembly. Whatever the Constitutional Court decides will be in force in this way. However, if it imposes further corrections, it will, of course, continue to act. That's why I don't see any reason. We will therefore support such a proposal in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished Madam President of the Government, distinguished ministerial assembly! New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats will vote against the enlargement of the agenda. The reasons are more than simple. Probably the President of the Constitutional Court, when he tells the public something, has some intention of telling the public what he says. And days ago he announced that by the end of the month, we now know more precisely, on Friday, he would have announced his decision on the real estate tax law. On the Committee on Finance, when we discussed the hybridisation of the two proposals for amendments to the real estate tax law, we have warned about this, but we have not been heard. The entire opposition spoke unitedly in one voice, we were simply driven. That's why we obstructed the meeting. That is why I really appeal to common sense, colleagues and colleagues, to turn our minds on and wait for Friday's decision to be published by the Constitutional Court. Then we'll know a little bit more, and then we'll all go together to some improvement that'll certainly be necessary, the real estate tax law. We're voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you. I take it we're Please? [[…]] Procedural. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now I don't know who's leading the meeting, but I guess [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u13	I gave you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you. Dear President, I would suggest that you make one exception this time and that you give the President of the Government, who rarely comes to the National Assembly, comes once a month, especially with interpretations, to explain the reasons why the Government has proposed a amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act following an urgent procedure. I think that's a key question. The entire government is sitting here, including the President of the Government, and the government does not try to explain why it has proposed this amendment of the law, just before the Constitutional Court announces its assessment of the basic law, which the Government has also submitted in some strange way into the legislative procedure. It's the government's responsibility, it's the government's duty to explain the reasons to us all. And the President of the Government should certainly be more eloquent. It's not that, I'm gonna say, a situation, a position where we can just nod and nod, or we won't. You have thus erred in the matter, when the imposition of the property tax is to explain the reasons, and this is the government because it is the original proponent of the amendment of the law. The government is the one. The whole government is sitting here, except for the sick minister who's retired. In this government, no one is able to explain the reasons why she proposed a law following an urgent procedure that needs to be put into session immediately and decided on it. Two days later, however, the Constitutional Court’s judgment was proclaimed, according to the law previously tabled. I propose, Mr President, that you invite the President of the Government, the highest representative of the executive branch, to finally state three, four lines of argument for what her government has proposed by signing, with her authority in the legislative process and thereby discredit the proceedings before the Constitutional Court. This, I think, is appropriate or would be an appropriate response. But apparently, the government is more about protocol matters in this country, something is taken by force, and then it's solved what it can do. It can also explain why the same group of experts who introduced the first real estate tax law is correcting the current real estate law. And why he corrects it only in one or two parts, but not in all other, which were also disputed, and are also in constitutional judgment. These reasons, this is the minimum standard in the National Assembly for the President of the Government to answer the questions and the opportunities offered here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Your proposal is contrary to the rules of procedure, so I cannot ask the President of the Government to explain these reasons. However, the Government and also on behalf of the President of the Government explained the reasons for the urgency procedure in the College, where we took this decision. At that time, there was quite an extensive debate, so they did not hold to the claim that the Government had not identified itself and did not tell why it was an urgent procedure. Finally, the mother’s working body is one that weighs both the content and the reasons for and against the adoption of this law. The Committee also proposed that today we extend the agenda, so that this issue was indeed very much and clearly discussed on the Committee. I propose that we move on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by a proposal for a law amending the Real Estate Tax Act, urgent procedure, EPA 1857-VI. Before we vote, I just want to warn you to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Procedurally any other proposal, Mr. Tanko? You have the floor, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know, it's also obvious that the level of debate or behaviour in the National Assembly has fallen quite low. If, like the one who got the word, he can't explain in peace and tell us what we want with this procedural proposal, then he's [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u17	You have the floor, perfect peace is in the hall, Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u18	Dear President! In the introduction, you read if the representatives of the applicants want the word and one of the candidates of the agenda item or the original candidate is the Government. The Government has subsequently rejected or refused an explanation for the inclusion of this item in the agenda. The debate at the College is a discussion at the College. The debate on the Committee on Finance is on the Committee on Finance. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have read [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u19	And what is your procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko? Since the Government has waived the possibility of discussion, it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u20	According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr President, the Government has been asked or invited to explain why it is proposing that the law be placed on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly. And I only asked you to make an exception, given that the government defended any explanation that the President of the Government or anyone else would get the word later and explain why he insists on doing so. But it is obvious that this, I would say, is the silent violence committed by the coalition in the National Assembly against all Members, but it will continue. Something is done without anyone explaining properly without anyone explaining why it happened and why it was so urgent. If the President of the Government is unable to explain, the representative of the Ministry of Finance or anyone else may say why this is so urgent that we are correcting this right now, and in two days, the decision of the Constitutional Court, which will be able to correct, repeal, abolish, and so on. And what was said before [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u21	Is there any other procedural reason, Mr Tanko, because you are no longer talking about the procedural reason?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u22	Mr President, it is quite in the context. And what the leader of the largest parliamentary group has previously announced to correct and repeat with the amendment of the law is unacceptable. The coalition throws its own spikes or prey under its feet. Therefore, I propose that the President at least explain it properly, because this transposition is already beyond all limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. But once again, I must remind you that you have abused the Rules of Procedure this time, because I have explained to you on the same subject that it is not possible to allow an infringement of the Rules of Procedure at this stage, nor in later times, so that your procedural proposal was in fact contrary to the Rules of Procedure, because I have already told you in advance that what you are proposing cannot be implemented. I propose that we decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 35. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. At the same time, I inform you that the assembly will consider the draft law as 2A item of the agenda on Thursday, 27 March 2014. We are moving on to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, which you have received with reference and with the addition adopted. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes to 23. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 41 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government shall reply to questions concerning a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister and the Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. I also inform you that Dr. Uroš Čufer, Minister of Finance, Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza, Minister of Health, and Mr. Roman Jakič, Minister of Defence since 16.20 have apologized on this point today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. However, before we move on to the question of Members of Parliament, Mr Prevc would like to make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! You know that I am not one of those Members who would very often make and make procedural proposals, but this time I have to take a call. For the first time, because I was already shocked at the College's leadership yesterday, when the President of the National Assembly wanted to limit the time-consumer's interpretation in any way. Finally, he succeeded, but I am grateful that he has taken into account our proposal that we divide the original proposal, so that we can deal with both 26 hours in one day and one night, into two parts. For the second time, however, I was shocked today when I did not in the order of order to ask the ministers questions to follow up on the question put by our Member, Mr Franz Puksic, within a period of time. Then I received your explanation, Mr President, that you rejected this question from our Member and did not send it to the Minister, explaining that the reason for rejecting this question is that it does not concern the ministry's field of action. Nevertheless, I believe that you have violated the rules of procedure, not least restricting the right of a Member's speech, to the right of the institution to ask questions sent. I think, Madam President, that you have made a mistake here, so I suggest that you take this question of Mr Puksic's Member of Parliament into account and include it in the order in which questions are asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Let me explain again. When you were talking about whether you wanted to prevent sufficient time to discuss the interpretations, this was not the case, but the College had the power to decide how long the proposer, the Government or the Group of Members would have at each point. It's the jurisdiction of the College. The college decided as I suggested. Unfortunately, this decision did not include a representative of the Slovenian People's Party in this case, because you asked this question. With regard to Mr Franz Puksic's question of the delegation, you have also rightly stated that we have informed him in writing that the question raised by Mr Franz Puksic does not imply that this is the field of the ministry, so I do not have the basis for his intervention to the Minister. If you had acted differently, you would have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thus your proposal to include this issue among the remaining questions of the Member States cannot be taken into account because this issue does not really concern the ministry's field of work. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as President of the National Assembly, I also have the power to inform the Member and to follow the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Franz Pukšič, would you like to proceed with the procedure? Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Firstly, what you have now said in the end is that the issue does not concern the work of the Ministry, is not true. For everyone to know, I'll read what I asked for and what you wrote off. You've written off something completely different. The announcement of my oral question to the Minister was that I was interested in how he commented on recent media announcements showing Minister Virant's communication with the Sales Manager, namely Mr Tomaž Kostajnski. You, Mr President – I received a letter today on the table, not yesterday, but today – you wrote that, regarding the media announcements on the purchase of airline tickets, I do not write anywhere about any discount and would not ask him how he got a discount on the purchase of airline tickets, but would ask him only what I announced. [[…]] This means communication between Mr Virant and commercial director Tomaž Kostajnski. From the Minister's reply to the last interpolation, the report by the anti-corruption commission shows that the Minister spoke once, but something else has appeared. It's common if you want to buy a plane ticket to do it through the agency. If you want something [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u27	Mr. Pukšič, what is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u28	Can I finish and say my procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u29	It is absolutely necessary to do so at this stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u30	I will absolutely do that, and don't take those seconds that are at my disposal. If you want a privilege for yourself or the company, then you're officially writing to some director, the director of the commercial. Otherwise, if you want an extra discount that you can only get if you know someone personally, then you write like Tomaž Gregi, and Greg Tomaž. You do this then and only when you expect special benefits and in this case, of course, at the expense of taxpayers, because the company is owned by the majority state. My procedural proposal is, Mr President, because you have lied in response to my written question that you should include my question in today's meeting and that I have the opportunity to ask Mr Virant my oral question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Puksich. Once again, I will explain very clearly and not least from your explanation. It was private communication at a time when Mr Virant did not perform his ministerial function. I will also read to you the explanation of Rule 240 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks precisely about this. In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 240 of the Rules of Procedure, any Member may ask the Government, the individual minister or the Secretary-General of the Government a question or an initiative proposing the regulation of individual matters or proposing certain measures relating to the work of the Government, the individual minister or the government service governed by the Constitution and the law. There really is no doubt here about whether it is jurisdiction in private communication for the work of the Government or whether it is private communication. And your question, let me also tell the public exactly what your question is, Mr Pukšič, is because you did not do so at the time of your procedural proposal, but it is: "Dear Minister! I would like to know how you comment on recent media releases that show your communication with the sales manager of the airline regarding the acquisition of discounts in the purchase of airline tickets for you and your family members." So look, it's about communicating with the sales manager of the airline at a time when Mr. Virant was not a minister. I hope that we all agree that this is also not an assignment within the Ministry of the Interior. These are the reasons why I believe that the Rules of Procedure are very clear and why I could not have been included in the meeting of the National Assembly, otherwise I would have actually violated the Rules of Procedure and no criteria would apply further to the question which could be raised by ministers. A complete system of functioning of the National Assembly would be disrupted, and I think that, as President, I am more than obliged to follow the rules of procedure at this point. Procedurally again, Mr Pukšič. Do you have any other procedural proposals?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u32	Mr President, my procedural proposal is that you give me the opportunity to ask an oral question today, because you have been misleading the answer I have already stated and because you have also deceived the Slovenian public now. Mr President, this is not a private communication that was carried out when he did not perform his ministerial function. Mr. President, it's not really what you said. It is the communication that Mr Minister has given right now and here at this time and in this room, when he is Minister of the Interior. And it's not true that he didn't use Adrie Airways' services when he was secretary. He was a minister back then, too. KPK found out, I will read: It was found that during his term as Minister of Public Administration, among other things, he flew 4. 4. 2008 with my wife and 29. Ten. 2008 with the family. So at the time, the minister and the communication he was now carrying out after the outbreak of this affair, by the way, the President of the Government we asked or I myself asked the written question last May, and it was not so arrogant that I would write, I will not answer that, because it is not our concern, but it also answered the question that was being submitted. Today, however, I would like to ask Minister Virant clearly and loudly to determine whether he was lying when he responded to the interpretation or if he was lying when he spoke to the KPK and its clear definition. The fact is, both in the report and in the newspaper, even in the Journal, they wrote their findings and their answers. But it is in the media, but here in the National Assembly it is in front of the Slovenian public, it is under the arrest of the minister and here you should speak the truth. Mr President, I have the right to ask the Minister a question of the question of the matter, just as I have put it. It's not true that I wrote anything about a discount on buying airline tickets. That's not true. I am only talking about the communication that Mr Minister has been carrying out, or when he denied that there was no written communication between the commercial director and now he is carrying out this communication as a minister between him and the Slovenian public. I'm not here for myself, but I was elected here. And our people have a right to know why we paid 50 million in Adrio Airways.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u33	Mr Pukšič, I have read on purpose the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and of the 240th Article that you will understand that the question referred to the field of action of the Ministry for which the Minister concerned is responsible. The rules of procedure are more than clear here. At the same time, I hope that you do not need to be reminded that at this meeting of the National Assembly we also have interpretation against Dr. Gregor Virant, where in fact there can also be a slightly wider discussion of all these matters. However, the Rules of Procedure are very clear when it comes to the question of Members, so that your procedural question cannot be taken into account in any way. Mr Tanko had a procedural proposal before, and then I think Mr Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, we would like to introduce oral questions. All parliamentary questions will come to the services of the National Assembly and, in the event of an inappropriate question being sent, they will normally draw attention to those who have proposed the question and invite it to amend or correct the question. In this mandate, you have already done this to me, when I wanted to ask the President of the Government something and the Secretary-General of the Government rejected my question. I would like to know why, in your opinion, a Member who has asked the question of a Member should not be warned in a timely manner. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, a similar event took place with my fellow Member, Lah. When it is too late, you should warn the Member that he has asked the question of the Member in an inappropriate manner or that it is not properly designed. Why don't you or your services of the National Assembly do so when the Member of Parliament, whom you suspect, as you said he did not raise the question of the Member in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, fix it and remedy it? This seems to me to be the misconduct of you, as President of the National Assembly and the services of the National Assembly, led by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. This is a case where the last institution in the queue is abused, so as to prevent a Member from asking the question of the Member. You once corrected these shortcomings, warned the Members, now this has obviously become a practice and enjoyed those in the services of the National Assembly, and obviously also the President, when the Member is thus unable and discredited at a public meeting. This way of working, Mr President, means a Member's discredit. If you have found in your services in a timely manner, and you personally that the question of a Member is not appropriate, I think you are proactively obliged to alert the Member to make the question a business-conformity. However, if you wait for this and read the following day that these and these questions will not be present at this meeting, or that a Member raises a question to a minister who is not supposed to be addressed, then this means discrediting. We don't have the services of the National Assembly, and we don't have the president to do that. I suggest that things like this be arranged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. But I would also like to make it very clear to you once again that both you and all your colleagues are required to respect the rules of procedure. I also expect Mr Pukšič to read these provisions of the Rules of Procedure when he was preparing the question and referring to 240th and 242nd Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Because you're already warning me that you should warn me. I have repeatedly warned in the Member's previous practice that it should complement the issue because the question has been vaguely raised. The third paragraph of Article 240 makes it very clear that the question or initiative should be short and concise and expressed in a way that makes their content clear. If it comes from the Member's question that the content is not clear, we always do it in our services, and I do it to warn the Member that it is trying to create a clearer question. However, the question raised by Mr Puksic makes it clear that it does not relate to the field of operation of the Ministry for which Dr Virant is responsible. The Rules of Procedure are very clear here. The question of dispatch must relate to the scope of action. That is why Mr Puksic has also been informed that this issue cannot be placed on the agenda. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u36	The honourable President, given that we have had this amateur play on these issues, the question or procedural proposal is, of course, primarily for you. You know that in the future, and consciously, you are allowing the abuse of all procedural procedures because no one at first tells you what his proposal is. Therefore, it is right to suggest that you have this competence to always call, as President, at the beginning, irrespective of their mantra, to explain for three minutes and finally to tell you what their procedural proposal is. I also suggest that you allow this question to Mr Puksic, and if what he proposes happens, because he appreciates the recommendations of the KPK so much that he also resigns, because he has also received his opinion from the KPK and we will be satisfied and see how far this sincere answer goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr Möderndorfer, but I must also remind you again that the three-minute period set for the procedural question allows him to put forward a clear procedural proposal at the beginning of these three minutes and then use the remaining time to explain this procedural proposal or in reverse order. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure here are not so clear that the mandatory layout would be at the very beginning and then explain this procedural proposal. With regard to your procedural proposal to put Mr Puksic's question on the agenda, however, the same explanation as I have already given to my colleague Puksic, Tank, Mr Prevc. Unfortunately, this issue is contrary to the rules of procedure and cannot be placed on the agenda. Mr Jože Tanko has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Dear President! According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Minister may be absent from the meeting of the National Assembly in the event that he fulfils European obligations. Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Here we have an apology from Mr Roman Jakić, who wrote in explanation of his absence, that he will be absent from 16.20 on the grounds that he will accompany the President of the Republic of Slovenia on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the North Association. Now I'm asking. Whether this obligation is a European obligation, or whether it is a local one, is a national obligation. And a second time. Does the North Association belong in the defence or internal affairs department, I'll say by function, because the North Association is a police association? In view of the fact that some questions in this regard are also deleted, or the question to be asked by the Minister of Home Affairs, I ask him: What is more important, is it that he is a butler of the President of the Republic, or that he responds to the question put by the Member at the meeting of the National Assembly at the question point of the Member, which is only once a month? I believe, Mr President, that the tolerance of such absences as are afforded by ministers past the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when they are not absent due to European obligations, but because of other obligations agreed with the President or anyone else, in areas other than their original areas, is a conscious disregard of the agenda and ignoring Members and thus avoiding the answers to the questions raised by Members. This practice, which Minister Jakič has afforded, is unacceptable. I propose, Mr President, that you use the Institute of the President of the National Assembly to determine whether the Butlership of the President of the Republic is at the celebration of the North Association for International Activities or whether it is another activity. And if this is not an international activity, then I propose that the Minister remain in the Chamber of the National Assembly and responds to the question put by the Member State. And so in all further cases, as long as this call of the National Assembly is in effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you, too. I can only repeat once again that I have informed you that the Minister has announced his absence from 16.20 further and has also given reasons for this. Mr Tanko has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before you rejected Mr Puksic, you referred to the Rules of Procedure. In this particular case, I also referred to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Art. 235. I suggest that in this particular case you make the same decision as you do in the case of Mr Pukšič. What the Minister of this Government has allowed, Mr Jakič, is not an international activity and is going to a celebration that does not belong in his work circle. This is a loving part, a personal part, but this is not an area that would belong to Minister Jakić's department, it belongs to a colleague of Mr Virant's. I propose that we follow the rules of procedure both with Mr Pukšič and with Mr Jakič. There's no difference. And look, you could be being unrealistic. You're not serious. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can the president?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u41	You have the floor, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u42	Yeah, obviously not, because Jakič and the others here are communicating without listening to what this is all about. I think gentlemen, when you're planning a meeting of the National Assembly, when you're taking various notifications from ministers and others, you'd be obliged to check it out. That's why we have the services of the National Assembly, so you're the President of the National Assembly, and that's why you have all those specialists in the National Assembly in the framework of a coalition that the Rules of Procedure probably know. Even those who are ministers with long-standing parliamentary practice should probably know that. This is clearly subordinated only to official travel and to certain cameras, and work in the National Assembly or in government is of secondary importance. I propose, Mr President, that you settle the matter in a manner consistent with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. See, if you would listen to me carefully, I read in my opening address the following text, which I will read again and read: In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. This is what the Rules of Procedure say. In any event, the question referred may be raised to the Minister. If the Member does not receive an answer today, he shall have the right to request an oral reply at the next meeting. That is why this provision is also a provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Can we move on to the question? Procedural. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u44	See, Mr President, what you have read is in the event of an excused absence from the meeting of the National Assembly, which is written in Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, the fact that someone consciously ignores the meeting of the National Assembly in order to consciously avoid answering the question of the Member State does not belong to this category. 235. Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall have a provision in paragraph 5 which shall specify when the Minister may be absent from the meeting of the National Assembly. There is no substitute for the question of the Member State. And participating in the North Association is not an international activity. If the President of the National Assembly can't find out, then we don't need any more rules in the National Assembly. Not anymore. It'll just run like it does, it'll be chaotic that we'll be adopting the same law five times in three months. In the meantime, the Constitutional Court will decide three times and so on. I suggest, Mr President, that you make it clear that the reason for the apology from the meeting of 14.20 is not the business reason why Mr Jakić, Minister for Defence, is simply a personal decision. And in this case, it's obvious that the rules of the National Assembly are being played. I guess that's what this is all about. If you're going to tolerate this, then I don't know why you're citing a point one month in advance, a question from the Members and answers. Everyone's been notified in advance. The only circumstance that can change this fact is international activity. Mr Cuffer is not, because he has international obligations, looking for money through the European capitals for his next assignment. But Mr. Jakich isn't there. I propose that you regulate the conduct or answers and the presence of government representatives so that they comply with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Look, I will now read this paragraph 5 of the Rules of Procedure to which you refer and draw attention to the provision you have made in your performance, regrettably, which, of course, is incorrect because it is delaying the meeting for unnecessary reasons. Paragraph 235 of the Rules of Procedure speaks about this. If the Minister and the Secretary of State are detained because of their obligations in the institutions of the European Union or because of international obligations, they may be replaced by the Director-General of the Directorate in the Ministry at the meeting of the National Assembly, and such replacement may only be made at the meeting of the National Assembly if so decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly. You tried to point out the problem, but in an improper way, because you did not read it to the end of this provision. I told you what the Rules of Procedure say if the Minister is not present at the meeting, and in fact the Member can ask a question if he does not get an answer, and he will receive such an answer orally at the next meeting. Mr. Bogovich, then Mr. Meh. He was a Bogovich before, and I tracked him down right after Mr Tank, and then he was Mr Happy Meh. At least that's how I tracked it. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. A very simple business proposal. You have decided, on the question of Comrade Puksic, that the matter does not belong to a meeting of the National Assembly. I am sure that both colleagues of Prevc and colleague Puksic have explained what they want to ask and that this relates to the time when the Minister of the Interior stated that he wants to talk about it. Therefore, I propose that we do not waste time because we already have three of these questions, that the National Assembly simply vote on this decision of yours, is to say that the National Assembly is to determine whether this question will come on the agenda today or not, so that the National Assembly decides. I hope that some new custom in the National Assembly will not begin when the words of Members or the right to speak are taken up, which is our fundamental right as well as our duty in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Bogovich. Look, I cannot put your proposal to the vote because it is in fact contrary to the Rules of Procedure and then it is also perfect, I will say, ignoring everything we have in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure make it very clear that, if the question referred to by the Member States does not concern the field of operation of the Ministry, this question cannot be asked. If the National Assembly voted today or put this to a vote at all, then I would in fact allow this possibility for anyone to ask questions that do not fall within the scope of the ministry at any time. So I cannot put your question to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Srečko Meh has a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! My procedural proposal is that with this act, we stop Farso. It is not an honor for the National Assembly to act, ladies and gentlemen, by playing the rules of procedure, to play the audience and the Slovenian government. You're putting Slovenia in a bad light with this. I propose, President, that we change the rules of procedure, so it is not possible to work, I do not believe that any municipal council is the same as it is here today, used commercially as it was used here today. If you think that by keeping the Slovenian government here for an hour and three minutes today, that there is nothing smarter to do than to listen to muscle tension and perform in front of the cameras, then it seems to me that this is wrong. Let us stop, Mr President, in any way by playing the rules of procedure. And I think it's mean. And I think it's very important that the Secretary of Defense is at the North Association. That it is extremely important that we give to those who have waged a war of independence in the past to give them real meaning. Not to tell anyone it's a trivial act. The 20th anniversary is an extremely important act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's cut it out, it's not right, it's not in the spirit! Otherwise, if we are going to continue, I suggest to the representatives of the Government and also to the President, go outside, you don't have to listen to this, and you don't have to give legitimacy to what's going on here, because I think it's really beneath any level of Members of the National Assembly. That's why I'm calling you. Stop asking questions. Perhaps the only question we could ask the Minister of Defense was long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Meh. I hope you understand Mr Meh's procedural proposal. At the same time, I must also point out very clearly once again that, with regard to the revision of the Rules of Procedure here, I do not see how we can be more clearly written in the Rules of Procedure than in this case very clearly, so that the proposals we are facing are actually aimed at violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think we're really wasting our time. Mr. Bogovich, you still have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u50	We are talking about violations of the Rules of Procedure and abuses of the Rules of Procedure. On Monday, when we talked about the real estate tax, we did it for the first time this week. We explained it in our own way and also creatively created this hybrid that is today. The second time he abused himself and tried to abuse himself and also interpret himself in the College, as Mr Miha Prevc said today. And the third time you're trying to take the word like you said, because you're going to talk about it when you're interpreting why now. Let's stop this farce. Let questions be asked, so the Members are here, and I suggest we do something different. But this is the last time I've heard from him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you for your understanding, Mr Bogovic, that we stop these procedural proposals. I have explained to Mr Prevac that it is actually the competence of the College to decide on time, and it has also done so, it was not a violation of the rules of procedure. For all the other questions, at least I hope so or in the answers, I was clear enough what this is about and that it is not possible to put Mr Puksic's question on the agenda of today's session. Perhaps it would make sense that Mr Pukšič, because he wants to proceed with a procedural procedure, would remind you of your proposal to stop this, but Mr Pukšič insists. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Puksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u52	I'm not gonna be rude, but I'd love to say something to my buddy Meh, but I won't. Mr President, the fact is that, for the first time, you are interpreting the Rules of Procedure when chairing the meeting of the National Assembly. Secondly, it rarely happens, but really rarely does the opposition and part of the coalition think in the same direction. Mr Möderndorfer said put this to the vote and give it a chance. You explain the Rules of Procedure, and you think if I had the floor to ask the Member's question to the Minister, you would be in violation of the Rules of Procedure. If the National Assembly decides otherwise, it is the decision of the National Assembly. Mr President of the National Assembly, no mistakes, no violations of the Rules of Procedure shall be made at a time when you give a decision to the National Assembly. The National Assembly will decide. And let him decide whatever it is. How he decides, I'll take it. What you're doing is arrogant, political arrogance, which you can afford as president of the National Assembly. Mr President, this right is not given to you by the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to interpret the Rules of Procedure and if you see that in the National Assembly both the opposition and part of the coalition want to decide something, you must give this opportunity. It's not the opposite, it's not the opposite. You just explain the rules of procedure, but you don't decide what's right or wrong. It is true, however, that this is a rather hot topic and that the question of this subject has already been asked by the Members, whether it is one or the other. But I would like to ask the Minister, because his statements still have a bearing on the integrity of the Ministry's work, as important as the internal ministry. What do we have to do with the opposition MPs? That's all. It's just a microphone. The difference between me and any citizen and a citizen is that once a month I have the opportunity to ask the President of the Government or any minister publicly. And this right, President of the National Assembly, you can't take it from me, you have no right to violate it. Let the National Assembly decide whether my question was wrong or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Puksich. I will not repeat the answer that I have given, I think, at least three or four times today, so we are moving on to asking the President of the Government the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. He'll be the first to ask the question of mag. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u54	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! After more than an hour of procedural complications, I will try to ask a question that I think is essential to Slovenia at this time. I hope that in this Chamber we all agree that the number of people who have jobs depends on the level of the social state. Depending on the number of people employed, whether the young people who were previously on the balcony will have a free university. The number of employees depends on what the pension will be. Not from the volume of Karl Erjavac, not from how many times DeSUS will threaten to quit, but from the number of people employed, it depends on the pension. The number of people employed also depends on what kind of health care we will have. It is therefore right to be aware in Parliament that, with each new job, the State will acquire twice. First, because it is no longer necessary to pay social compensation, and secondly, because people in employment are paying into a wide variety of state treasury. Many experts say that the rehabilitation of the banking system and the extension of Slovenian companies is crucial for new jobs. If we can agree that the rehabilitation of the banking system is already running in some way, the other thing is more crucial and problematic: the extension of Slovenian companies. Because it helps us to invest billions of euros in the resolution of the banking system, but if we don't have healthy businesses that will start the economy. Everyone claims that the backbone of the Slovenian economy is small and medium-sized enterprises, that with these Slovenia falls or grows. And that the biggest problem facing Slovenia today is that these small companies are over-indebted. However, they are not indebted because small dancers, craftsmen and others would act so uneconomically, but mainly because of the non-discipline of payments due to the failure of large companies where subcontractors were. And because these companies are over-indebted, they can't get credit because they can't get credit, they can't go into new projects because they don't have money, they can't invest in development. In a way, Slovenia is full of clinically dead companies. That's why I'm asking you, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government: What will you and your government do to make Slovenian companies more easily and more quickly responsible?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I hope we all know the old Slovenian proverb Time is money. And I am truly sorry for this hour of farce that we lost in the National Assembly before we could go to substantive questions and answers. Your Honour, Mr Tonin, I can say that I fully agree with what you have said. The first step towards a better state of our economy was and is the rehabilitation of the banking system. But I'm aware, and that's what I've always stressed, is that just the rehabilitation of banks is not going to be enough. However, it must be said that, in fact, the problems in our banks have also arisen because companies are over-indebted. These over-indebted companies have been in trouble and unable to repay credits, credits have become bad loans, and now we have to resolve this with tax money. Yesterday it was held in the National Assembly – I think you participated in this too – a meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs also on the issue of corporate delinquency. I can tell you that this is absolutely our priority. I will only tell you when the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination have been passed. This was December 7, 2013. I can tell you that many stakeholders participated in the drafting of this law, including many or quite some foreign experts from the IMF, EBRD and the ECB. It is my wish, too, that the process of disuniting companies can run faster. I can tell you that the Bank Claims Management Company is actively involved in 43 major cases of corporate deleveraging and nine smaller cases. 43 large means where this company is exposed to more than EUR 10 million. The total exposure in these 43 companies is EUR 1 billion. However, I believe that we both agree that these procedures should be carried out in such a way that mistakes from the past will not be repeated. If we do this phase poorly, untransparently, in a few years, we may be dealing with the same problems again. I believe that's not what we want, not me, not you. However, as regards other measures to start up the economy and new jobs, I can tell you, and I am sure that it will be presented in a short time, at least on the Committee on the Economy, a programme prepared by Mr Dragonja, Minister of Economy. This is a programme of measures for the start-up of the economy and new jobs, which includes, in addition to debt and comprehensive restructuring, corporate governance and the disposal of state assets, in line with the strategy which I believe will be very soon on your tables, including ensuring accessibility to favourable resources, investing in research and development, increasing, as far as possible, the investments most from European funds, education and employment, preparing an analysis of labour market reform to find out what has been done well, what has been done little less well and will need to be rectified. We are rapidly preparing a document for a new programming period of European funding for 2014 and by 2020.We will also continue to actively fight against the grey economy in the coming months.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u58	Dear President, you said we shouldn't make old mistakes again. I agree with that. If you look at small businesses in Slovenia creating most of GDP, then it is essential and crucial that we do everything we can to create the conditions as a policy, so that these small companies will be able to live as soon as possible. The public is talking about two tools that are supposed to contribute to the deleveraging of these small businesses. One is insolvency law and the other is a bad bank. Remember that under insolvency law or under insolvency law, we deliberately and deliberately excluded small businesses from this law. My question is - why? Bad bank case. There are companies that have taken their shares. These companies are transferred from banks to a bad bank and these shares are worth 100 units, and they have been transferred to a bad bank by 30 units. These 70 missing units are being paid by taxpayers. These are questions that we are interested in, these are questions that require very clear answers that this bad bank will not create a very good bank for someone. And just one last thing. Banka Slovenije said that small companies need more equity. However, more equity can only be acquired if they are sold off, either by privatisation or by tax relief, in order to leave them with more to repay and invest in development after the taxes they have paid. That's why I'm asking you, President of the Government: What will you do for tax relief because this is the key to the deleveraging of small businesses and their future development?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you. Does the president want to complete the answer? President of the Government, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u60	Are you asking me about delinquency or tax evasion? I understand that the issue of tax relief and first of all I want to say that it is not true that these companies, the small companies you are talking about, have been excluded from the law. For them, we have simplified the process of forcible settlement. It is true, however, that the amendment of the law I was talking about was of great importance, or the main point in companies, in larger companies, because it was, after all, from the point of view of the State, also in terms of the bad bank in terms of the amount when we speak, the biggest problem. If the law needs to be amended, and here all stakeholders involved in the proceedings, please, as soon as they find out that anything is wrong in the law, they will report, we will sit down, we will look at it, and we will change the law if necessary. Once again, I would like to point out that procedures may not be running as fast as you and I, but probably someone else in our country would want to, but it is crucial to me that the procedures run as they should, and that the result of this will be the length of our businesses, from large to small, and ultimately the result you discussed at the outset, that is an increase in the number of jobs. I am sure that the goal we set ourselves, of course, is medium-term, although sometimes you want to turn it down for one year. Medium term, I believe we know what it is, and that's 60,000 jobs. And I agree with everything you have said before, only new jobs will, as a result, guarantee the social state, including the sustainability of the pension register. These measures, which we are implementing, are not going through, I will say, headless savings, as was the case in 2012, where, with everything we can, from investment to consumption, we have further reduced economic growth. I believe you can look at the situation the country was in. But as for the tax burden, you're two years old. One is VAT, which in no way, and this also shows, has not burdened the economy, it is a tax on consumption. And the second is the real estate tax, where I have already said several times that the economy will on average be taxed exactly as it was with the compensation for the use of building land.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you. The request for a discussion on the answer shall be made by a mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u62	Look, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this Parliament, on the response of the President of the Government, discuss this house. This is also a good reason for yesterday's debate on the committee, where everyone who participated in this debate stressed that the debate is essential, that the discussion on these issues is important, that we are all aware of these issues and that we are all looking for solutions, what we would do to ensure that the economic cycle in Slovenia is reversed as soon as possible. President of the Government, you yourself said that if there were any mistakes in existing legislation, then this should be said and corrected. Yesterday, on the Committee, the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce made it clear that they had been excluded by insolvency law for small businesses and crafts, which is why they have difficulties in deleveraging, and that it is crucial that they be included in this insolvency law in some way. It is said that one concrete proposal, which was not made by the New Slovenia Group, but by an entrepreneur from the field that would be considered. The second thing the European Commission is also reminding us, if you want, is that your government that in some ways, when we can raise taxes, we have now exceeded and that there will be a lot of work to be done on the spending side. The Bank of Slovenia, the institution of the country again, points out that everything needs to be done to ensure that small businesses get more equity. That sounds very learned, which means how they'll come or how they'll have more of their own money. They can only do this with two things. One is to get a strategic partner to invite someone else to own the company, to somehow trigger a privatisation process that I know your government is very opposed to it, and if you want to implement it honestly, it should also create some conditions for our environment to be interesting for any foreign partners. And the second, even more important and crucial thing is the tax burden. One example that I am always repeating, and I will also repeat it now, that if you give a worker a net salary of EUR 1,000 in Slovenia, the employer has to pay a thousand EUR 950 for it. In Slovakia, the employer pays a thousand Euros for the worker you pay him. This is the difference that makes it impossible for us in Slovenia to get out of this crisis faster. Instead of having more jobs, more than those that you have paid into the state budget, we have more people working in black or those who receive minimum wage in the account and the rest in the envelope because of high taxation. This is how huge amounts of money go past the state budget. I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on these matters, which I consider to be crucial and essential to Slovenia, we also hold a broader debate, of course with concrete conclusions, not as we sometimes have the practice of having a meeting without concrete conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Tonin, that's all I'd make up for. Your question actually referred to the issue of debt in companies, so tax relief is another topic. Even if there had been a vote to decide on this debate, there could be no debate on what had not been raised. However, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 27 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. The second one will ask the question of the Magi. Andrej Shircelj, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister of the Government! My question concerns the situation in public finances. We both know that there are several areas here, and certainly one of the areas of country indebtedness, the other of the areas is country deficit and the third area is the rehabilitation of the banking system. Regarding your debt, I would like to remind you of your words in December 2012 when you said: You are saving the pension money by exhausting the Capital Society. The scope of the debt is set at EUR 4 billion. Where are your actions now, one word at a time, but the actions of the end of the debt? At the end of your term of office, the country will be in charge of 70% of GDP. Yeah, 70%. When you took the government into your hands, our country was in charge of 46.9, in four years you will increase it by 50%. But you were talking about the end of the debt. These are your words, and today the international institutions find that under your government Slovenia will not only be indebted to 70%, but 75% of the gross social product. This, of course, means that 2016 will be particularly dangerous. That's when we're gonna have to pay a lot of money back. And not just that. In 2015, the Regulation provides that any country in debt of more than 60 % will have to repay the net debt. Where are we today? The second question concerns the deficit in the state budget. The expenditure on our information is 500 million more annually than it should be. This means, of course, that the deficit will be between 4.7% and 5% of the gross social product. What's going on here? Where are the measures on the expenditure side? How are we going to get what you promised the National Assembly with the budget 2014 and the budget 2015 as well as the European Commission, even though I know you're not giving much to the European Commission's opinion? Bank system recovery. We paid the taxpayers 3.2 billion, but 6 billion bad claims remained on state banks. In the opinion of Death, it is even 8.2. This, of course, cripples the banking system, especially since greater capital adequacy will increase. That means we're worried. For this reason, Madam President, I suggest you pour us some pure wine in your reply, where we are in the area of public finances and how you run them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much, honourable Member. With all the responsibility and pride I still stand behind the words I said at the time, because it wasn't me who deceived people, that your government would end the debt, but your president and you. And I believe that as an acquaintance of public finances, you know well that overnight debt can't be over. At the end of the answer, I will tell you what should be done, what should be done so that we do not have a budget deficit this year, and tell your people or our people clearly and loudly. The consolidation of public finances is in line with the recommendation of the Council of the European Union to remedy the surplus deficit by 2015. Without taking into account the recapitalisations of banks and other exceptional expenditure, the budget deficit, as this is deducted from the deficit by the European Union rules, decreases from 3,8 % in 2013 to 3,3 % in 2014, and in the coming year the government committed itself to reducing the deficit to 2,5 %. And we're still standing on that. However, we have not dealt with consolidation with headless austerity at any cost which, at the end of the short term, your previous government left Slovenia in a catastrophic macroeconomic situation. You have managed to cut your investments by 20%, minus 20, and you have managed to reduce our citizens' private consumption by constantly threatening them, and you have successfully raised our debt interest to 7%. As a result, you also managed to lower economic activity to negative 2.5. I am in this state and we have taken over the management of the Slovenian government. The consolidation of public finances, which is definitely necessary, takes place in our scenario through measures on the expenditure and revenue side. The expenditure category, many, these are public servants, who, too, are often insulted by the fact that you do not recognize that they have been granted measures, in agreement with them, we have saved 200 million euros annually in agreement with public servants. Social transfers and pensions are not valorised, we are also saving on material costs and we want to save as little investment as possible, so we are promoting economic growth. As far as income is concerned, I have already mentioned an increase in VAT, which, despite criticism by you, has not affected the economy, has not affected the part of the economy that is the driving force of our economy, these are exporters. Neither has spending affected us as you warned us, and this is shown in numbers, not just in my words. The property tax, which is a lot of words spoken of, I would like to say again clearly and loudly that this is actually the most just decision we can make. It's not a new duty. There are 20 years of replacements for the use of betting land in Slovenia, and many people have been dissatisfied with it, and no one is fighting for their rights. The constitutional sentences, the complaints against Durs show this and the fight against the grey economy, which we actually took last year seriously and not just in numbers. I can tell you that in the first two months of this year, and I will only use the tax category of revenue, they are slightly more than 7.5% higher than they were last year. So I don't know where he's going with you on a 5% deficit, because that just can't be true. We have absolutely acted conservatively in assessing the public finances when we were preparing the budget, and this is also shown by the figures that are taken into account in the budget. And then the rest in addition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Šircelj has the word to complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u68	I want to complement the answer, because I think that, in addition to the very frequent analysis by the President of the government of Janez Janša, the President does not really give an answer to what the future will be like, how we will owe ourselves as a country, and what the recovery programme is. For now, we're just in debt. That's another thing I'd like to say. We certainly don't insult public servants. With regard to the VAT rise, I would like to say the following, Madam President. May 2012: "This immoral and I think that the low tax has been mentioned you will raise with the decision of the government. The next step is to change the law on public finances." Those are your words. But you raised this flat tax last May and it started to work. Which means there are some words, Madam President, some are acts. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party want an answer to how you will resolve public finances, especially because you do not have accurate income data. The revenues were not higher by 7 % in the first two months, but by 4, 8 % and are at the level of 2012. Here's the income data collected by Durs. So you don't have the right data or someone doesn't give you the right data. Once again, we have a deficit, the expenditure does not go down. If this rate goes any further, we'll go up to 5% of the deficit. We're in debt, we're not in debt, Madam President. More and more debt means an ever-increasing payment of interest to be paid by future generations. You don't have this moral right, so please. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I'm really glad I have a chance to complete the answer. Mr Šircelj, because you have now made it clear and loudly that your government already intended to raise VAT, and would have done so if it had not ended prematurely with its mandate. With the difference that we did it with the law, you wanted to do it with the government's decision. And that's what my words were about. Thank you for saying this clearly and loudly now in the National Assembly and also to the people who are watching us. As far as the debt is concerned, I have said that our main objective is to cover the debt created by the resolution of the banking system by managing and selling the shares, and I will use the term assets that are on the bad bank. Our great commitment is to ensure, through good governance, that the entire debt, which is slightly less than 15% of GDP, will be reduced by selling off a large part of Slovenian assets that are currently at the Management Company. If that's what we want, you can't do it overnight. That's the first thing. Another thing about borrowing. Look, even if it doesn't like it, I think it's fair that we tell people that we can't do this overnight. I promised earlier that I would tell you what it means to have a budget without deficit this year, which is one billion lower expenditure. This means that 40% of people should be fired or their salaries reduced. By about 24% lower pensions and practically abolish what we call social transfers. Mr. Shircelj, you will not see this film in the government of Alenka Bratusek. I hope that in the future no one will get the chance to do so from our country. I absolutely agree with the gradual fiscal consolidation. We're aware of that and we're taking it. The information you received from Dursa may be information that is called the so-called accounting principle and the cash flow does not necessarily have the same numbers or much in common. So number 7.5 is definitely holding. I'm going to add one more piece of information, even though you're saying I look too many times into the past. Do you know what year our country's structural deficit was the largest from 2000 to 2013? In 2008, when it was 5.1%.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Shircelj has a request to hold a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u72	Mr President, I would like a debate in the National Assembly on the state of public finances to be held. What the President of the Government has told us is simply not enough to make us feel financially safe. Not only us, but also citizens and citizens in this country. First of all, our debt is increasing. Second, there was no plan to reduce this debt. We have only a regulation by the European Commission that a debt reduction of one twenty from 2015 will be necessary each year. And this will amount to some 100 million, which the state will have to give specifically just to make amends. The fact that the deficit is increasing is that there is no reduction in expenditure. Of course, this means that money for pensions, money for social transfers, money for the urgent functioning of the country will soon come into play in the field of public finances. That leads us to that path. This is what the European Commission is kind of reminding us of, which is talking about macroeconomic imbalances. Under the criteria and criteria of the European Commission, we belong to countries such as Croatia and Italy, which have the only macroeconomic imbalances. Also, the area mentioned by the President, the sale of assets through the Banks Claims Management Company or through holding company, will not yield such rapid results. In fact, holding is not working, nor is there a strategy, nor is there a plan for which state-owned companies to privatise. I do not think that much will happen in this area this year, at least it did not happen that this would actually have an impact on state finances. I'm afraid the state finances will collapse due to constant indebtedness and overexpenditure. There is too much expenditure in the State budget in relation to revenue at the level of 2012, despite the increase in the value added tax rate despite the freezing of the income scale, despite the freezing of the corporate tax rate. Dear President, I propose that a public debate be held on public finances now, because if we do this tomorrow, it will be too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you. Your proposal, Mr Šircelj, will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 27 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. The third question to the President of the Government will be raised by Mr Franz Bogovic, Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u74	Once again, Madam President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The first answer you started with the river Time is money. You once said we needed time. Let me start my question by saying that laughter is half healthy. However, what is unfortunately happening in the area of health, which I want to ask, is not giving us anything in that it would be funny, actually sad, sometimes tragic. The health situation in the Republic of Slovenia is more unsustainable from day to day. I don't think anyone in this room who doesn't share this opinion that there is an urgent need to answer open questions in the field of health, to carry out a health reform that we are reminded of by medical organisations, health insurance organisations, patients, all health stakeholders. What happens to us is that our young doctors are going to work abroad, and in the last week, we have experienced two excesses. The first was what happened in the emergency room at the Clinical Center when these great species happened. The second is also the resignation of the Minister. If I may say with a word what is relevant to human resources matters, human resources policy is one of the key policies that the Prime Minister must lead, and I think it is appropriate for me to say that your human resources policy has deteriorated. In the last year, five ministers were removed or replaced from your ranks. Three ministers have been given interpellations. Certainly not in honour of human resources policy what was happening in Luka Koper has happened to the staff acquisition of the Court by Positive Slovenia, which manages state property at a time when we do not have a state holding company. In the area of health, these problems are common, so I ask you: How will you solve health problems? How are you gonna patch a hole in the health locker? How are you going to save the species at the Clinical Center? Will we wait three months for the new minister or minister again? How are you going to solve the complications in the Clinical Center, where there is obviously a whole range of complications in the frame-up itself? After all, allow me to make thesis that health policies in Slovenia are obviously no longer run by you, your government, but that policy is clearly governed by corruption networks and lobbying in Slovenian health care. What are we all going to do together to fix this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much, honourable Member. We are absolutely aware of health problems, but unfortunately in this young country we have experienced over a period of 20 years. Alenka Bratušek and my government are hard to fix all past mistakes in one year. Look, we are aware that we cannot prepare comprehensive reforms at the time that we have until the end of our term of office. But we immediately, immediately, the new minister, for whom I am sorry that she has failed so quickly, but I will not go down for reasons today, to solve certain matters, and I will tell you in the end what has been done in this one month and what has already been done. Let me also mention here that, as a government, we have appointed a strategic council for health issues, that we have already met on the subject of problems on 5 March and that all of us who sat at that table, but in this world, also eminent experts and doctors, have agreed that the situation is so acute that we should immediately start with small steps in the right direction. And that's exactly how we're gonna do it. But I can, and I'll leave it to the end. It is absolutely a priority to stabilise the financing of the health system, which can also be addressed by addressing corruption risks in health care and by sound measures, both in terms of health insurance and the organisation and financing of health institutions. Among the priorities are the implementation of the joint public procurement project in health – here at the Ministry of Health, they assess the possibility of saving between €70 million and €100 million in health bills; the adoption of measures to strengthen the primary level of health care, the introduction of apprenticeships, the further introduction of reference ambulances and other activities necessary in this area; the change in the financing of the health system, here we are talking mainly about additional insurance, where I believe we all agree that too much money remains outside the health system, although it is intended for health care; the rationalisation of the functioning of the health system, the more transparent operations of hospitals, changes in the organisation, management and management are essential, and of course the objective is to improve the optimization of processes, financial rationalisation, autonomy and responsibility of management. Here it must be said that the differences in business between individual hospitals are still large, too large. It is said that, even with as much money as is currently intended for health care, it can work better than most hospitals in this segment. Last but not least, the area of investment, where we need to secure the construction of emergency centres with the money available to us and, above all, with European funds, and what has been started in the past. In the end, I will also stop myself in the face of corruption and health-related problems. Even though I say it, and I stand firm behind it, we will continue with all that we started and went on, I said yesterday, and I say again, even at the cost of any more concessions, we will continue. But I believe there's someone who's a little nervous because we're going to save up to 100 million in health care. I'm sorry the ministers who are leaving don't want to talk about the pressures they're under, but I do, and yesterday I met with the Police and the National Investigation Office to speed things up here. Absolutely, however, the persecution of this part of corruption and economic crime is an absolute priority on these bodies. Because without it, I am more and more confident of it myself, we will not make order.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Bogovic has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u78	Four months ago, Mr Gantar resigned and, in his statement of resignation, stated that your government coalition has all too different views on modern, developed countries' comparable health care and that without the principles of corporate governance with clearly defined responsibility, there is no way to deal with the biggest problem of Slovenian health – corruption. What you have said about what needs to be done, you have also written down the bad side of the text that I have in my hand concerning the coalition contract that your government has adopted. What is written down was answered by Mr Gantar, who gave up after eight months. Nothing. It's written down by floscules and some principles that you'll respect in your future work. I fear, Madam President of the Government, that any minister you choose, or a minister, in this place will be very difficult to do if what Mr Gantar has clearly said continues. When he spoke to the government, which I was a member of, he had several words in his mouth that spoke about certain people who performed important duties in the field of pharmaceuticals. Today they are no longer carried out in various pharmacy organizations and so on. Maybe there's something to look for or somewhere else. Therefore, Madam President, I firmly believe that it is essential that you do what these people who leave, as you said, tell you, to the authorities responsible for this, what is most disturbing in Slovenian health, that the government finally identify itself by adopting the principles or measures of reform that will be feasible. The time is also slowly running out for this government, this year, when you were [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] For months without a minister, I don't think there was much I could do. [[…]] But I hope you will find a minister or a minister who will separate what is public and what is family.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you. You probably meant public and private, not public and family. Family? Okay. I believe, Mr Bogovic, that you agree that all the things that have been done in the past are wrong, once again, cannot be fixed in one year. For 20 years things have been loaded and much of the time, Mr Bogovic, has also been involved by the Slovenian People's Party in policy-making in this country. I do not think that you were members of the government during the period 2008-2011 alone. I am aware that it is necessary, we have taken the job, I agree, and I have made it clear and loudly that not only in the last year, but also in the last two years too little in the area can I continue? [[…]] It is not true that Mr Gantar would have no support for reform or changes in the health system. [[…]] In fact, we never got them on the coalition as final solutions. I am confident that just as we have agreed so far for the benefit of our country, we will also agree on health care. And I'm asking you to just give us a little more time. Just as we wanted to fix the banking system, we got it, Mr Bogovic, and the interest rate for today's debt of our country is 3.7%. Do you know how much less that is than when we took over the government? You can't do everything within a time frame like you do with opposition benches. We are aware and will, and only with the results, as we have shown you with the macroeconomic indicators you can look at every day, that the things we do are true, so in the field of health we will prove to you that we will put things on the right track in a very short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Bogovic has a request to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u82	Given the fact that the President is always running into the past in her replies, sometimes even some information comes to mind about what years of cooperation in the government, and unfortunately at that time, we do not get enough answers, and in particular questions have been raised for the future, not for the past, I propose that this issue be discussed by the National Assembly. I would also like to see members of the opposition and the coalition working together on such acute problems and to try to resolve the problem together. We have already offered you this hand several times, with which we want to be creatively involved as an opposition to the development of this country, but unfortunately it is not accepted, in fact, to provide us with some information that you take away from the context and want to base your policy in these areas. I'm sure you're running out of time in the field of health. The health sector is falling apart faster than we might think. We have very responsible people working in health insurance companies, talking to us and explaining to us how Member groups are, how challenging this health situation is, so that we will all just have to get into some of the problems and start solving these problems together. I know what the government's priorities were. Unfortunately, there was a minister who was one of the few who could have kept the continuity of the government, one who failed in your team was not, given that he had a better starting point than others, that he had been through the entire mandate or that he had been in the government for almost two years, in fact, he would have expected him to come along with these proposals, not only that he finally admitted that the pressures of corruption networks had broken him, as they had apparently broken the media and other pressures of your minister. At that job, it's just to clarify. Yeah, I seriously thought it was necessary to separate between public and family staff matters. I was also an official myself, and I have been for many years, and I knew strongly before anyone wrote down any law on integrity or anti-corruption commission, how an official should behave. Obviously in this case, in the last case after one month in addition to these media pressures, a family company was mainly important. I fully understand the lady, even more her husband, and I think she has made up her mind for these reasons as well. In order to make the health situation better, I really suggest that we do a serious, responsible debate on this pressing issue and not just spend a few minutes putting a burden on future times. That time in health care is simply gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Bogovich. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 27 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on to question four for the Prime Minister. It will be set up by Mr Franz Jurša, the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! That the health situation is alarming, if not alarming, we can all identify it. Our Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar pointed out that reforms are urgently needed and that it was necessary to approach the health sector in Slovenia yesterday or before yesterday. Despite his clear vision, his well-designed objectives and hard will, he found that, in the current circumstances in our health care, nothing could really be changed for two basic reasons: for the first time because of corruption and for the second time because of the lack of political will for real change. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are convinced that Tomaž Gantar, as a health expert, was one of the most capable and courageous ministers, to whom not only the health lobby but also the remaining parts of the current coalition have committed themselves in his fight against corruption. Nor did you, your esteemed Prime Minister, listen to his suggestions. For this reason, we are surprised by your statement yesterday that the appointment of Tomaž Gantar as Minister of Health was your mistake. We are now aware of the reasons for the resignation of the current minister. It is the business of her business or her partner's business with the public sector. Addressing threats and pressures is simply a blurring of the key reason. Madam President, I ask your answer: Do you still believe that you did not make a mistake in naming her? On the general health problems, the lack of doctors, waiting types, poor but overpaid construction and reconstruction, the presence of the so-called health mafia, in the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, we ask where our healthcare went. Who's number one: the patient or the looting of money? That is why the coalition has included commitments in the new coalition treaty to fight corruption in health care and to rationalise business. But I'm asking you: Is the Government aware of the seriousness of the situation? What do you think is a priority in health care? How do you comment on the fact that ministers change faster at the Ministry of Health than anywhere else? How can necessary changes be made in health care if, on the other hand, we have strong lobbyists who oppose such changes and who are obviously stronger than any minister? Are the lobbies really stronger than the government or the policy of every ruling party?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you. I beg for peace in the hall, Mr Jerovšek. I give my word to the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Jursha. I'll end up in the supplement if you want to redefine your priorities, but I think the weight of your question has been given to your former Minister of Health. I'll be very honest with you. As an opposition member, I was in no way satisfied with his work. In one year, in the mandate of the previous government, I apologize for mentioning it again, he has done virtually nothing. Everything we've done, we've merged, you've merged some public institutions into two units. That's all. And I am therefore sure that if then, together with DeSUS, we tried to find a candidate who, as soon as we took the lead of the government, would take full advantage of the health problems, today would be a better and different situation. That's the reason for my statement yesterday. And I'm sure that would be true. I'm just saying, we could find another candidate together. Like Mr Gantar in 2012, I do not know if he has found enough will or political consent to change, it was the same unfortunately in 2013. With one serious change or one serious proposal, Mr Gantar did not come to Alenka Bratušek, the Prime Minister or the President of the largest party, once with a single serious concrete proposal. The only thing we were able to reconcile even after my intervention was the so-called intervention law, where we slightly expanded the foundations. As far as corruption and economic crime are concerned in the field of health, I cannot say and do more than I have said. To the police, we have provided the NPU with additional resources to strengthen and strengthen its personnel. Once again, they ensure that health problems will be a top priority. However, as a society, as a policy, all in one voice should support the rule of law, respect the decisions of the authorities, but not cry out before the courts that Slovenia is not a rule of law. Who, then, can be afraid of being punished if the highest political representatives of one party mutilate and insult the justice system? In this way, economic crime and corruption in this country will not really be expelled from our country. And maybe, or maybe, I'll tell you what's obviously in everyone's interest. Not Alenka Bratsek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u87	Mr Jurša has a proposal to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u88	Madam President, I do not fully agree with your response, because I personally intervened with you at the meeting of the presidents of the coalition parties and, on behalf of Minister Tomaž Gantar, asked for an interview on the subject of health reform. I was also present several times when Tomaž Gantar himself attended the meeting. Once again, we regret your yesterday performance that the choice of Gantar as Minister of Health was a mistake. We are confident that your statement is a result of your disappointment, given that our Minister Tomaž Gantar has always tried to make a health reform and has insisted on doing so for two years. And he gave up because he didn't have any support. That's why we find this statement completely inappropriate, given the fact that your minister did not last a month. In the party DeSUS, and also in the parliamentary group, we are confident that if there is no accounting for corruption in health care, there is no hero who can carry out a health reform. This, however, shows that in the last 15 years, no minister has been able to take a reform step in health care. Dear President, we wish you a happy hand in choosing a new Minister or Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you. He wants to fill in the president? He doesn't want to. Mr. Jurša, do you have a procedural proposal? No, no, no. Thank you. At this moment, of course, I also thank the President of the Government for the answers given. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at 22. Meetings of the National Assembly. Minister of Defence Roman Jakič will first answer Mr Robert Hroat's question regarding the regulation of the status of voluntary firefighters and other rescue workers. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Of course, I would also like to thank my fellow Croat for the question he has asked. We all know that the last natural disaster we were facing has highlighted the irreplaceable role of firefighters and other voluntary rescue workers in the protection and rescue system, while stressing the issue of regulating their status. The Ministry of Defence, in parallel with the construction of a system of protection against natural and other disasters, has worked to gradually address the status issues of both voluntary firefighters and all other rescue workers involved as volunteers in the system of protection against natural and other disasters. We estimate that their status is comparable to that of countries with similar arrangements in this area, and we must clearly take into account, in addition to the status of the firefighter or the voluntary rescue workers, the regulation of relations with their employers and the regulation of the status of voluntary organisations participating in the protection and rescue system. The area, just to remind you, I am sure that you know that in our view, the area of remuneration for voluntary firefighters has already been adequately regulated by the Firearms Act and the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. We also know the procedure that a voluntary firefighter for the duration of education or for the duration of the intervention shall be compensated. Thus, the remuneration shall be paid by all contributions and taxes payable by the employer, which shall then require reimbursement from the authorities or the State or local community, depending on who has called the firefighter for education or intervention. In addition, the employer may also require a refund for the loss of income, amounting to up to 20% of the remuneration, including the corresponding contributions and taxes paid during the absence of a member or citizen from work. In such cases, the remuneration shall be reimbursed to the employer by the municipality from the municipal budget or by the State from the State budget. The same arrangements shall be made for the remuneration of a member who receives a pension or a financial compensation in the event of unemployment, for a non-income member and for a member who carries out his or her own business. As far as insurance is concerned, I will not list the articles, but insurance is regulated in at least three laws, the Firearms Act, the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents and the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. The question that you have addressed is not going to talk about health checks, although we are talking about not double-checking both for firefighters who need to be medically examined because they are employed by the employer, but at the same time they need to have an additional health check done and we will have to do something in this area. But either way, we're looking at this. Every year, as far as insurance is concerned, the Association of Firearms of Slovenia enters into a special contract with the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia each year, setting a single flat rate and thereby the amount of insurance. On this basis, a voluntary firefighter who is injured or ill in the execution of a fire service can obtain 100% paid hospital, in certain cases, at least 20% of the body’s damage, and under the rules on disabled persons or the consequences of the disease, single cash assistance is also possible. I will continue to answer the specific question of how we feel about amending the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Here you go, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, I expected you to answer my question in this part. At the last meeting, I asked you the question when you were absent, when and how you would prepare an amendment to the legislation governing the status of firefighter or the status of firefighters and other rescue workers in the system of protection and rescue. Now you've listed everything that already exists. But I would remind you of the meeting you had with the President and Commander of the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, I think that in November, where you promised at the press conference that you would prepare a legislative change in terms of improving the status of volunteer firefighters or other rescue workers, of course. It's been four months since then. In the meantime, it happened to the pharynx, of which we all know who did the groh work on the ground, that is, volunteer firefighters and other paramedics. I am now really interested in the regulation of the status in relation to employers, as a motivation for employers to hire voluntary firefighters. This is what is the main stumbling block or the main desire of voluntary firefighters to finally regulate the status in this area. You remember, I think you and the President of the government were at this acorn when the Prime Minister called the employers herself to leave the boys on the ground to do their job. Nothing's happened since then. I'm asking you because there was a lot of promise back then, what's going to happen, how the status of firefighters is going to be handled. Now it's been a month again, actually two, and it's still nothing. That's why I'm asking you: When, how, and in what way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thanks for the extra question. Both of you and Mr Hrvat, given that he is very active in the fire brigade or the fire company, we know that the decision of the Fire Association has also been made, that we should make a detailed analysis this year, and that we will find out on the basis of this analysis whether the changes are relevant and where these changes are necessary. Not only with the Fire Department, but also with the leadership of other rescue services and voluntary rescue workers, we will check and propose possible legislative additions. What I'm saying is that those eyewitnesses who were either at the time of the acorn or immediately after the acorn, after this accident, were referring to, you know, that there's no regulated status, that volunteer firefighters have to take vacations when they go on the ground, and that they don't have their wages refunded for the time of the call, they just don't hold. This has been arranged and has been regulated through this procedure. Let me just finish. Personally, I think that it is not only a matter of these two laws or of the three that I have listed, but that we will, and the Ministry of Defence has done so many times, that we will strive to achieve certain stimulations that you are talking about, for voluntary firefighters also in other departments, or to amend other substantive laws, particularly in the field of tax, pension and labour legislation. I am also in favour of stimulating the employer to use so-called positive discrimination and employment of a professional firefighter if he has two equal candidates to choose. However, it is necessary to check which legislation needs to be amended and what the consequences are. As you know, it is so much harder to cut into the private sector if we can already provide certain benefits in the public sector, which concerns employment at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the Minister's response. Why is that necessary? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we announced immediately after this acorn, which was in Slovenia two months ago, that we would table proposals to amend legislation in this area. This legislation is prepared on our part, but it is not only because you or your associates have ensured that you will study with the Fireman and then find a solution. This is why we have not tabled this proposal. It's been two months since your first promise, and it's been four months since you've talked about these things, but nothing's happened. So I think it's really about time now that things don't get too cold, that they don't get too far from the disaster that hit Slovenia, where volunteer firefighters and other rescue workers have played a major role in getting these things settled. See, one of the basic proposals that comes from firefighter types or from rescue and rescue systems is to introduce in tax legislation changes or incentives for employers to employ volunteer firefighters and other rescue workers, similar to those arranged for employers who employ disabled persons or those who seek first employment. These are concrete measures, concrete steps that could really help to regulate this firefighter status in this segment in relation to a voluntary firefighter and a rescue worker. This is what I think is the main thing to deal with. And we really do not want to impose any laws that we know in advance that the coalition will not adopt, so I would like this debate to be held, so that Members and Members here will agree on how and how we will resolve this matter, not with some solo action, but with some coordinated action. That is why I do not think it would be bad for you to support this proposal for a general debate or a debate on the Minister's response tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 27 March 204, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on to the next answer. Mr Janez Ribič's question on measures in the field of voluntary firefighting will be answered by Mr Roman Jakič, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u98	I also thank Mr Ribič for the question. I will not repeat what I have already said in my previous reply on the status issues. I certainly agree with you and join your findings, Mr Ribič, on the irreplaceable role of voluntary firefighting in the protection and resolution system with which you started your question. I feel similarly about the status, that the good work has already been done, but I also agree with what my fellow Croat said in the end, that this is not a prestigious game, that it is a matter for us to actually sit down and find a suitable language with the Firehouse Association, and in particular solutions, given what is a stricken phrase, but despite all the consideration of the economic situation and the fact that we would not open Pandora's box in some way, and then we would all try to find a suitable solution also in other legislation, it is pension, tax and so on, because I am a proponent to regulate the way that the employer is stimulated. You also correctly note that the regulation of the status of firefighting cannot be only a matter of a statutory law, in the field of protection against natural and other accidents or firefighting, but it also applies to the area, as we all find, of tax, labour and pension legislation. The only thing I wanted to say more about this question of yours, the sooner I did not answer, is that additional measures really need to be carefully considered and reached consensus within the firefighter's organisation as well as other voluntary rescue services. This is very important because I have already been in these discussions with them and I have also been warned from their side that with quick, perhaps also like solutions, we can make it impossible to divide voluntary membership into operational and non-operational, or those with certain status and those without it, which can have irreparable consequences for volunteering. The changes need to be made in the long term, so in the context of the analysis of this section of the state of protection against natural and other disasters, which we are producing this year, together with the Firehouse Union of Slovenia and the management of other rescue services, we will re-examine the status of voluntary rescue workers and propose, as I have already said, possible complementary legislative proposals. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that no solution will work without an increase in funding. And that's completely clear to us right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Ribič, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you. Dear Minister, Minister, distinguished ladies and gentlemen! That's how I'm gonna start. When you meet a fireman, you grab a button, like you're meeting a chimney, because when a fireman comes to help you out, he wants you to be happy. I know, Mr. Secretary of Defense, you're just one in the government. The interests of such or others are great, but my questions are very well-intentioned, because we know how strong the fire organisation in Slovenia is and the desire is that we all help to improve this somehow. That's why I'm specifically interested in: What do you think about defining the status of an operational volunteer firefighter? These are people with virtually the same tasks as professional firefighters who intervene in all possible accidents that are highly qualified to protect and rescue. They are at risk of life several times a year, and many face relatively stressful situations in their work. No one says they should be paid for anything, but you don’t think we can help them in any other way. In particular, we make it possible, with additional pension insurance possible, to have a specific status that would allow for normal work that would also cover any part of the contributions to be paid to those applicants who do not have other incomes, possibly even a year of paid work. In short, look together for ways to help those people who help us in need. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u102	Your thoughts are in place, and I fully support them, that they should be seen. Once again, I am reminded of this danger, which I am also reminded of in the Firehouse Union of Slovenia, that it is necessary to be very careful when we share an operational and so-called non-operational volunteer firefighter so that we do not make a difference here in order not to go in the direction of professionalisation of voluntary firefighters. Because then we have to decide on two concepts: whether the concept we have in Slovenia is 140 years old and based on volunteering, or on professionalism, some countries have it, but then we need to be aware, that is one new sector, creating one new sector with all the financial implications, and at the same time, according to my assessment, reducing the response of firefighting itself. If you're looking at countries where they have purely professional firepower, you'll see that the scene of the accident comes later. In Slovenia it is, and here I agree with you and the hat down to Slovenian firefighters who are always the first and the moment there, because the system is set up in such a way that voluntary firefighting calls to be involved in work, in the local community or in the environment, and also those who can react the fastest. Of course, all your recommendations are in place or your thoughts. And once again I say that with the Fire Union of Slovenia, we are looking for variants in this direction. Last but not least, we have found one interface for both professional and operational, for example, that we have offered at least psychological assistance from the Slovenian Army, especially for those firefighters who are on the scene, I speak of course about traffic accidents or accidents, where they see very severe scenes, that we will also offer psychological assistance, which we otherwise have for the Slovenian Army and Slovenian soldiers, when they return from a mission abroad, to firefighting, so that we can go through the traumas they experience when they first arrive at the scene of the accident, and this is also sometimes so that it leaves certain psychological consequences for the firefighters themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Ribič, I presume you have a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your answers. If there is something or not that we can all talk about here in this National Assembly, we all kind of defend firefighters, it's not a political thing, I think it's good to hear from all Members of Parliament some position, some direction, and on this basis a good law would be made. I therefore hope that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a discussion will be held in the National Assembly and, of course, in the light of this debate, we can then prepare the starting points which would then be entered into the marriage solutions. I have no doubt that certain amendments to the legislation will take place, as you yourself have predicted. After all, the final experience is too costly to allow the possibility of remedying certain shortcomings in this service. We have spoken and agreed several times in the National Assembly that a natural disaster must not be a political dispute and a political gathering, and frankly, Mr Minister, we offer you a hand for this cooperation in the Slovenian People's Party. As we know, we have cases where firefighters also have problems in their services, you have already answered something about it, and understandable problems when employers have too much workforce and are left to themselves, even in the countryside, where a company that has, I don't know, 20 people, and of these, 5 firefighters, the whole production stops, and it's hard to measure how to fix it. That is why I think that even any income from insurance and so on lasts too long, too long, this mill has been grinding for those individuals who may have espa, but they have been harmed by such work or by such assistance, so I think it would be good for them to talk about these things here in the National Assembly, and I hope that tomorrow, when we vote on this debate, they will understand this and my initiative and my proposal will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. In accordance with your proposal, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 27 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. Ms Sonja Ramšak will receive an answer to the question concerning irregularities in the Slovenian Army. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you for the question, Mrs Ramshak. Despite intensive dialogue with trade unions, which we are paying special attention to, several letters from these unions have been sent to various titles over the past period, in which they point to their various irregularities mainly in the Slovenian Army. One of these is this common statement that you refer to, the three unions you mention and in which they point to nepotism and chronicism, according to them. Such warnings that there will be no misunderstanding as the Minister and the Ministry are taken with all seriousness, although the formal declaration to the Ministry of Defence has not been addressed at all, we have also examined the cases referred to, and regrettably some of the allegations which have already proved to be unrealistic in that letter are also repeated, and are in some way trying to give an impression of the alarming situation in the personnel area in the Slovenian Army. In this regard, one of the key trade unions' claims is related to the so-called allocation of the Ministry of the Slovenian Army's staff service, which is intended to allow for irregularities to be brought to your attention. The transfer of personnel functions to the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the work relating to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces was carried out in 2007. Of course, it was not transferred to my mandate, nor to my predecessor's mandate, but to 2007. In my view, the management of human resources policy is one of the fundamental functions of each organisation and such a decision has also been justified in a particular part and has a basis in the Defence Act. However, the question is whether it would not be a prudent staffing function throughout the Ministry to a greater extent to simplify and rationalise, while certain parts directly linked to the Slovenian Army should also be maintained in the Slovenian Army. And that's my opinion. My wish, too, was that certain functions of human resources services within the Ministry could somehow be combined, but of course they could not all be combined. The proposal is being prepared within the Ministry by the competent services and will be decided shortly. Otherwise, the Slovenian Armed Forces have specific and delimited powers in the field of human resources by means of regulations and other legal acts. The Slovenian Armed Forces Staff Plan also sets out the basic starting points of the human resources policy and principles for the enforcement of a competent model in the field of employment and scholarship, distribution, promotion, promotion, service abroad, military education and training, including the granting of recognitions, extension of contracts and departures from the Slovenian Army. It is said that human resources policy must ensure the development of organisation and career paths for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces through transparent human resources processes and procedures and management tasks, and thereby improve the structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces and ensure that the vital capabilities of the military are adequately developed. However, I would like to make it clear that in the Slovenian Army, and in the event of extraordinary events, internal controls on the work processes are so extraordinary. In accordance with the law, both the Defence Inspectorate and the Internal Audit Service exercise control over the work of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In addition, like all the authorities in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government themselves exercise these controls, including the Public Administration Inspectorate, of course the Court of Auditors and the Labour Inspectorate. However, with regard to specific cases, I can explain in the following reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramshakova, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General, for this part of the answer. I have to say, I'm not happy with him at all. Indeed, the letter was addressed to the Commander of the Armed Forces or to the President of the State and to Members and Members of Parliament. This letter is based on a great deal of things that we have been familiar with in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the context of the Committee on Defence meetings. Even at the meeting, when we addressed the social situation of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, these problems were exposed by the union and also by Members and Members. As far as I know by the union representatives, you are aware of the content of these charges. However, we have not answered any specific questions or indications as to the illegal advancement of officers and military personnel in the higher pay grade, in the case of chronism, nepotism, discrimination against professional members and members and civilians in the Slovenian Army, in the case of subjective expression of official ratings, states even that the military elite has subordinated the entire structure and legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Both you and the Minister, as well as the President of the State, and not the last Member and Members. In view of recent events near us, Ukraine and Crimea, it is extremely important what kind of army we have, whether the commanders can still count on 100% support from members and members of the Slovenian Army. I am convinced that consciousness and love for the country still apply, no matter what happens. But I would really ask you to sit down with the unions to clear up these matters and finally get to some common noun.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u110	We're actually going this way. I am, despite not being the addressee of this letter and calling upon these three unions, when you told them where it was addressed and sent, we have initiated all the mechanisms to check whether these claims hold, and if they hold themselves to be sanctioned, that, of course, they also bear responsibility if they have done something wrong in these processes. I immediately handed over to the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to the General Staff all these observations listed in this letter. I must say, I have zero tolerance for clientelism, for all that is stated. It is true that I do not go into the human resources policy, as I said, of the Slovenian Armed Forces in such a way as to intervene in each of their appointments, any change in their formation or any choice of certain candidates for certain places within the Slovenian Army. I have launched all the mechanisms and I expect the General Staff of the Slovenian Army to have very clear answers. However, as I said, with unions, with all four representative unions, we are having a definitely permanent dialogue and I think that we will find solutions within this dialogue and, above all, answers to questions. I don't mind if something's wrong if something's wrong, if something's wrong, if it's wrong to fix it and find responsibility within the system, or if it's an unintentional error, if it's done on purpose, it's the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Here you are. You have a request for a debate, Mrs Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would suggest that a broader discussion be held on this issue. Minister, you know very well that we have also dealt with formations on several occasions on the Defence Committee, that, in fact, according to the law, we do not have some temporary formations to which soldiers are transferred and in fact their salaries are being paid, if I may express myself in short, and that, of course, there is a breach of labour law here. When you're talking about having a permanent dialogue with the unions, I'd say intensify this matter. In view of the fact that, after this letter, there are still a number of letters that have actually circled the sides of the unions, not only the three that have actually made a joint statement, but also the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia, and I think that something is actually happening in this area and that it would be true that maybe all of us, even on the Defence Committee, are meeting again and we are trying to find constructive solutions. It is certainly unacceptable that a soldier who has a 10-year contract in the Slovenian Army is not making progress in ten years is actually speaking, because we know that those classic advances are unfortunate because of some of the decisions on progress in public administration. However, as far as the structure of the army is concerned, I think it is unacceptable and also non-motivative for people to have no opportunity to advance in ten years, regardless of whether we know that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces actually deviate from the level of education after formations, at least as far as I know, the fourth level is required, but I think that the vast majority of them have the fifth level of education, and perhaps even the sixth or seventh level, which is not an obstacle to employment. Of course, it is demotivating, and if they hold to the point that there are reasons why such people should be forgiven by subjective service assessments or by means of improperly established health status and similar matters, that is what we should be concerned about. The police and the military are two state institutions, and these matters really need to be handled properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 27 March 2014, in the framework of the votes. We turn to the next question to which the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, will answer the question of Mr Dragutin Mate, regarding the conduct of the police authorities in the event that the inspection of the city inspectorate is carried out. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I am sorry that Comrade Matthew is not here because this is a very specific, specific question and he will not be able to hear me. I hope he's watching TV or he'll read his tape later. His question concerns specific police activities in the Koper Municipality area, and I will first specifically tell you what the police were doing in this case and then explain the broader context of this event. The police obtained and recorded, in a legitimate manner and in accordance with their powers in the exercise of their basic tasks on 5 February 2014, information on the circumstances that indicated the suspicious detention of unknown persons in the immediate vicinity of the address, where a police officer is being treated as a vulnerable worker in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Organising and Working the Police, specifically as Head of the Criminal Police Sector. In accordance with her powers, the police immediately approached the suspicions of exasperating circumstances with a view to dissuading him or his neighbors. Given the level of threat and the role of the threatened – as I said, it is the Head of the Crime Police Sector – and the fact that the identity of the suspicious person who appears at the address of the endangered person and photographed his house was not confirmed, the police immediately approached the identification and implementation of the first emergency measures. In accordance with the competences of the first suspicions, the Administration of the Criminal Police, a special working group, has taken over, in accordance with the Regulations on the Protection of Vulnerable Police Officers. After the first reports, the police found that a suspicious person could be employed in the Municipality of Koper. Police officers arranged on the phone with a staff member of the Municipality of Koper for an information interview, which he attended without objection. At that meeting, he was explained that he was participating on a voluntary basis in the interview, that he was not suspected of any crime, and that the purpose of the interview merely explained whether he knew who was on the spot and for what purpose. Both police officers also showed up with a police record before the interview. The staff member was invited to the interview solely with the aim of excluding any suspicion that the offence or other suspicious circumstances might indicate a threat to the police officer and to the individual assisting the police, which was properly explained at the beginning of the discussion. In the interview, a worker of the Municipality of Koper himself offered to provide the police with evidence of the merits of his action. Therefore, in a specific case, the police did not exercise control over the administration of the Municipality of Koper or the other public administration, but merely carried out their powers and tasks in the field of compromised police workers. A little more statistics. In 2013, the police dealt with 87 cases that were at risk, of which 8 cases were medium-sized, 1 case of high risk. In all cases, it was the police. In order to ensure the safety of police personnel and their neighbors, a number of measures are in force in accordance with the already limited rule, and from those dearest to measures of physical protection or resettlement elsewhere as a last resort. They prepared a report on this event very precisely and specifically in the police. At the same time, I would put the matter in a broader context. I think it is clear and clear from the data, as well as from what you can monitor in the media, that the police have been directing the pace of the fight against economic crime and corruption for quite some time. And in such situations, there may also be a number of pressure on police personnel, and therefore the police have developed a system that detects these pressures or threats and takes immediate action. He must protect his people when they carry out their duties legally. And as Minister myself, I will always, always protect the police from any pressure. Of course, the police are also on the nerves of many people, especially those who are breathing as collars or suspects in crimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Since Mr. Matthew is not in the Chamber, he is excused, probably no addition [[..]] The following question was raised by Mr Borut Ambrožić regarding public sector retirement and local self-government. Here's your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The question relates to the simplified retirement of public servants who meet all the legal conditions for obtaining the right to an old-age pension. However, if we are a little more precise, it is not really about retirement, but it is about ending their employment relationship or ending their employment contract in this case. Whether they will retire or maybe get a job with another employer, that's their business, their decision. It is the case that the ZUJF, the Public Finance Balance Act, provides for such a public servant to cease his employment relationship unless, within two months, he enters into an agreement in the interest of mutual interest to continue his cooperation with his employer. This is a measure that has been implemented in practice, which facilitates the reduction of the number of public sector employees, which also opens up at least a few employment spaces for young, young graduates, first job seekers in the public sector, and is a measure that has recently also been dealt with by the Constitutional Court and has, in principle, been identified as compatible with the Constitution and has imposed on the legislator to equalise the conditions between public servants and public servants. It is said that the same period must be met that this measure is also applicable to public servants. We will go into a change of law, but before the law changes, we are already working in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, which has determined how to enforce its decision by including public servants who retire or terminate their contract when they meet the same conditions as public servants, men. The statistics of these terminations are clearly kept for state administration, then you can extrapolate this across the public sector. From 31 May 2012 to 28 February 2014, there were some over 400 cases in the State Administration and 142 further agreements concluded. This was certainly one of the reasons why last year we were able to overcome the target reduction in the number of employees in the state administration, if I am specific, by 2.6%, the number of employees in the state administration has again decreased and we have been reducing it since 2006. In the wider public sector, the picture is slightly different, but there has also been a decrease in the number of employees in the wider public sector. You can look at more accurate data on Ipes, the reduction in the whole public sector is negative 0.3%, but this percentage applies to all, including those financed from European funds, from market activities and so on, where we do not block employment. Consequently, the estimate is that the number of employees financed by public funds has decreased close to the target minus 1%. And in the state administration, it's down to 2.6%. However, not all parts of the public sector are equally consistent in this regard. You just have to say, health is the most problematic. When it comes to problems, particularly the UKC, it is important to make it very clear that in healthcare the management, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, would be able to work by priority, then we would not have problems like this, since last year the number of healthcare workers increased by 2.5%. And then how can someone say in a specific case that he couldn't hire a doctor where it's absolutely necessary. Employment needs to be given priority, where it is absolutely necessary. Actually, you don't have to do much anymore. If I draw the line, the ZUJF measure proved to be good as a useful one. It makes it easier for us to reduce the number of employees and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. The first question will be asked by Mrs Romana Tomc, Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, who is now officially absent, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Dark, who is present here, and Minister of Health, Dr Alenka Trop Skaza, who is absent. Here you go, Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I have referred my question to three ministers because it relates to working in all three areas. This is a matter of calculating and paying social security contributions, with an emphasis on contributions to pension insurance and health insurance contributions belonging to 2 different ministerial areas. Why the Minister of Finance? Because it's the ministry or Durs who's in the oz. the powers of the Ministry in charge of collection of contributions. My opinion is that no matter what someone is responsible for, all three departments must participate in addressing the problem of non-payment of contributions. A while ago, I asked the Minister of Finance a question about how contributions are being charged and paid according to individual types of employment or contracts, as the system has become extremely complicated in Slovenia. And I got the answer, you won't believe it, on your 20s. Twenty pages! We know so many different ways of calculating and paying contributions that the answer is so extensive. But most of all, it's what's written on the back, and that's why it's my question. The back page shows the gap between how much contributions are paid by those who are in debt in Slovenia and how much they actually pay. Let me make this simple. Approximately 5 billion 300 contributions are paid each year. For pensions, for health care, for maternity care, for short. While no payments were made for 50 million in 2011, 108 million were unpaid in 2012. And in 2013, this figure rose to an incredible 240 million euros in outstanding but unpaid contributions. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have listened today to the President of the Government, who has very much praised the Government's actions in the past year; but my assessment is that they have mainly raised taxes and contributions and have further committed themselves. Therefore, it would be imperative that, at least where there are grounds for marriage, the Government or the competent ministries ensure that these obligations are paid, and perhaps there will be no pressure in some other areas. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Now that we have only the Minister of Labour with us today, I ask: What will you do with your powers, from your point of view, to make matters better?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you for asking. As you mentioned in the question, this is both the area under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, our Ministry and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance, where basically Durs is the one responsible for collecting contributions and taxes. Nevertheless, any contribution that is accounted for and not paid is a problem. The numbers you mentioned are worrying, especially because it is a trend. However, it should certainly be given in context, since you initially said that 5 billion 300 million is accounted for, and then you told the number where it was billed and unpaid. Here are a number of problems related to corporate bankruptcy as well. The problem is objective, and there are some problems with the law itself. On a general level, I note that in the field of the Ministry of Health and its powers, this introduction is important, which has also been adopted by amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, that there is no possibility of a decree and any manoeuvre with contributions paid for pension and disability insurance. At the same time, because of the awareness of all of us about the contributions paid, it is important to introduce personal informational calculations, where citizens will have an insight into the contributions paid each day and thus have a greater opportunity to intervene. At the same time, there is here what you have raised in your question, including the problem of different insurance bases. One of my goals or great desires is to draft a new law in this mandate, where one place would settle the issue of insurance bases. Here we need to change the concept of just paying the contributions from the contract of employment, that it is necessary more – every work counts, but in some comprehensive way, because in the past we have often partially regulated this when we have regulated each form of work. It's one of the things about the task force. You have also asked a written question about the various workloads, the different forms of work. I think I signed that answer yesterday because you got our table where this analysis was already done. And on the basis of this analysis, the working group, which has already been appointed, will also have to make certain proposals. In any case, there are 5 billion 300 large sums of contributions collected, charged and paid. The problem is if this percentage increases. However, in view of the situation in the economy, the question or share of this contribution should also be examined as to how many of these contributions that have been charged are unpaid due to company bankruptcy and other problems. However, it is necessary to talk about this, and it is the legislator's task to make the system effective in terms of tax collection and also the protection of individuals that these contributions are also paid. We know that pension and disability insurance are also increasingly dependent on the amount of pensions, i.e. individual entitlement to contributions paid. Of course, there is still logic in the ZPIZ-2, as was the case in the past, that even if payments were made and unpaid, pension periods are recognised; of course, the fact that they were not paid is known on a pension basis. There is certainly more to be done on this. And every euro of unpaid contributions is a problem. However, it is also necessary to see in an objective scale the full and the share in terms of the total contributions collected. I won't now, it'll be the Minister of Finance if he comes back next month, but I kind of have in my head that 97% of all the contributions that are charged are also collected. That says something in this mass. For an individual facing this problem of unpaid contributions, this is a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tomc, would you like a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u122	I would like another addition, in particular a comment, because the Minister of Finance, in his reply, expresses some concerns about solutions that go towards equal treatment of all forms of work in terms of social security contributions that would require comprehensive reform; and then it also troubles your idea – each work counts. It would be good if you and the Minister of Finance could coordinate on how to resolve this matter. But despite all the fact that you wanted to relativize this figure of EUR 240 million, which was not supposed to represent such a very large share. Compared to the government's promise of the property tax of 200 million euros and the fact that it has revolutionised virtually all of Slovenia, it is likely that 240 million is a lot of money. And, of course, it is not only that the individual is not affected because the retirement period is considered if the contributions are not paid. We're looking at it wrong. Look, the pension box has to be leveled. Money's running out, he's got to cover the budget. If he has to cover the budget, it has to come from some taxes. And because someone does not pay or because the country is unable to collect what it could collect, there is constant pressure on raising contributions and taxes. And that was one of the reasons, remember, I don't know when it was, October of last year you increased contributions to health insurance, to authors, to independent entrepreneurs and so on. All of this — the inability of the State to collect what belongs to the State — raises pressure on the other debtors or. insurance companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u123	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u124	I don't think it's necessary for us to argue here because we agree. I think I made it clear enough for those who listened, wanted to hear it that way, I didn't try to relativize it, or that the problem is 240 million uncollected to 5 billion 300 million. I never said it wasn't a problem that an individual wasn't paid. The fact is that we are working for this in the pension system, including through personal information calculation, in order to make sure that this does not happen, that awareness is very important and also unacceptable by a wider society from the fact that contributions are not paid because this violates one of the fundamental rights of workers. As far as PIZ is concerned, as you mentioned earlier, we're making contributions. The fact is that the original and business contracts were introduced by PPIZ two contributions and the intervention law was only a link to these insurance bases. Our legislation so happens that most of the bases for the payment of contributions are fixed by pension and disability insurance and health care and health contributions are linked to the basics laid down in pension and disability insurance. Payment or non-payment of contributions is a debate that we have talked about in particular in the crisis. In 2008, 2009 there was a major problem of workers in Rogaška. Much has been done, and the fact is that the system is still in such a way that pension periods are recognised, regardless of the fact that no contributions have been paid. And if we went in the direction, as has been repeatedly suggested by you, in the direction of personal calculations, that would not be possible. Why not? Because then solidarity in the system is reduced. It is precisely that we still have in the system the recognition of the pension period is an element of solidarity. However, it is also necessary to make it clear that there is a need to defend responsibility, solidarity in the system and that everyone must contribute in accordance with his or her capabilities in our common system. This is the only way that we – including our craftsmen, our children – can enjoy the benefits of intergenerational solidarity based on the pension system and also enjoy health care rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We turn to the next question put by Mrs Alenka Pavlič to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister, Jesenice High School, Jesenicians known as the ŽIC – the Iron and Educational Centre, has a long tradition of training iron professions and in recent times also educates for other professions: administrator, medical technician, mechanics. Since last spring, the school has been without a principal. A school of 680 students and students is run by a duty officer all the time. The first call for Director was published by the School Council in June 2013, in which no one was elected, a new call was launched in October 2013, where no one was also elected, since none of the candidates received the majority of the votes of the members of the Institute's Council. A third invitation to tender for the Director has been completed these days. Today's high schools are facing many new demands and challenges, with the director playing an important role in which the demanding management of the public institution is based. The situation at the High School of Autumn is not good. Development strategies are lacking and all of this affects long-term quality of work. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: How do you plan to act if at all, and prevent further damage from occurring in this secondary school? Besides, I'm wondering: As part of a government visit to Gorenjska, will you take a look at this facility? I have already addressed this subject to your predecessor, Minister Turk, because the school is also in infrastructure far behind other schools: poor conditions for practical exercises, poor wardrobes, the building is energy-contained, poorly maintained. It is sometimes educated in impossible situations, so it is not surprising that enrolment falls from year to year. Education for the professional profession, in particular technical professions, has thus been halted, although we all strongly want to introduce inter-enterprise educational centres, we call ourselves centres of usable knowledge. I wonder if you'll visit them and how you'll react? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Jerney Pikalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much and thank you for allowing me to be here today in the National Assembly. There are some things you need to say. The school is not without a principal, the school has a duty holder — a director who does his job according to the authority, so that we do not talk about any non-managerial position, in short. And according to my information, the Director was appointed on 7 September 2013 for one year, until 7 September 2014. The legislation in this area allows him to be appointed twice as the perpetrator of the duty for a period of one year. This is as far as this particular director is concerned. As far as the powers of the Minister are concerned, you are well aware that, in accordance with Article 53a of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the Minister himself does not directly interfere with the appointment of directors. That's what the school world or the institute world does, and that's how we act. But it is something else, as you said, that is now the third call. I will certainly, even if this invitation is not successful, call on the members of the school council to act responsibly in accordance with all the powers they have as members of the school council. It's not the minister's job to set up the principal. I think it would be bad, not just for this case, but for any other case. We know that we must balance, on the one hand, between the effectiveness of governance, that the school does not lose its teaching and leadership, and on the other hand, political failure to interfere with who this person might be. If the minister were the one who set up the principals, then I believe – not only now, but at any time before and at any time later – that there would be evidence of political interference with who will run a particular school, not just this school or school you are asking about. It is the responsibility of the members of the school’s council — it is up to the members of the school’s council that, according to their responsibility, I also hope that they can agree, properly execute and reach someone with full powers. However, if this is not the case and all other legal options will be exhausted, then the Minister has, in accordance with Article 54 of this same law, which I quoted earlier, the possibility of putting someone in charge, however, in order to initiate the procedure immediately in search of a new one. For it is not right, as it is said, and it is also in accordance with my principles, that the Minister politically appoints anyone. As for the government's visit to Gorenjska, I will tell you in truth that for the second day of the visit, I do not yet know the exact schedule. The first day, and tomorrow it's not on the schedule because we're in Bled in different locations. We have sport, higher education, secondary education and so on and will make an appropriate visit to all institutions during this visit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlich. Request for complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u130	Minister, what would it look like if there was no one to lead. We both have to agree that the perpetrator of duty is not the same as being the director. That's one. The other thing that I have highlighted in my debate is that one is running business. Given the previous management of the former director, we can be extremely disappointed in the Jesenicas that there was no development strategy by then, so we are looking forward to a new director who will present a development strategy for this centre in his explanation. This seems extremely important to us. However, we know that it is also important for the stability of leadership itself that it is a designation and that it is not just a doer of duty. However, it seems to me that, after all, I know that you must not be politically prejudiced, but something certainly is wrong with that selection committee, members of the world, that after two, even after three calls, the question of whether they have chosen someone. Something must be wrong so they can't pick a principal. Maybe just thinking. As for your visit on Friday, I would just like to let you know if time would allow you to visit this high school. Maybe you can still compose into it. When we're talking to the principals, I'd like to ask you if you'd like to answer, but you can answer because I didn't announce it. They ask: Who opposes or opposes the approval of the work performance of school development team managers in the framework of a project on the modernisation of high school programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. No, I'm not the one who's opposed. I can tell you that I have already officially submitted material to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for this, but there was no response in this regard. As for the visit, if possible, we will, of course, make this visit. I think it's important that we do this and figure out this situation. But, as it is said, the responsibility lies with the members of the world, and I also invite them from this city to do their job and also to justify their membership in the world of schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question put by the Magi. Andrej Vizjak to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uros Chufar, who is now officially a percentage. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. And let me say at this point and at this point that I expect the Minister to give me an oral answer to my question at the next meeting. I want to ask him not so much about the indebtedness of our country, which is enormous and beyond common sense, but in terms of how we will repay ourselves. We've heard a lot today about corporate delinquency. Companies in Slovenia are also very indebted and, if they want to continue to function, they must reduce their debt depending on the cash flow or the business that they can do in the future. This is very similar for the country, and the country has been in charge of over 50% of gross domestic product or of what we create over the last six years. This is the largest in the European Union, and no other country has committed itself to such a pace. That's a worrisome thing to worry about. We've committed over 17, 18 billion in the last six-year period. We will be paying more than €1 billion for interest this year, or around 15% of what we are getting from taxes and other revenue in the state budget. Only for interest will we pay about 15% of what we collect in the budget. Strong over a billion euros! What's the worst? The fact that we're paying interest abroad because we're in debt abroad. This money, which we will collect from Slovenian companies, from Slovenian taxpayers, will be transferred to foreign banks and this money will go out of the country and will then circulate in other economies. This is the most unfavourable situation and therefore an additional concern. I call it borrowing money from a young generation, from those who come after us. If we do, future generations will be returning it, and it's kind of borrowing money from these young people. However, if we are headlong in debt, especially if we are in charge of current use, this is the place of young generations. So we're stealing money from young people, because I don't know how and when they'll be able to give it back to you. I ask the Minister of Finance about the plan: How are we going to make amends in this country? How are we going to balance the budget first, that's saying we're going to be zero at all? And when will we achieve that? When will we, and with what dynamic will we reduce our debt to 60% of GDP? And I'm especially interested in: What and when concrete measures have been put in place to make amends in this country?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. In accordance with your request, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister Uroš Cufer will answer your question orally at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister of Health, Dr Alenka Trop Skaza, who is absent; and the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc, who is here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Minister! I have a question for the two ministers, both the Minister of Health, because I expected her to be present, and the Minister of Culture. Dear Minister! It follows from the contributions of the various newspaper media that the leadership of the University Clinical Centre for yesterday, which is 25 March 2014, prohibits the attendance of the Holy Mass for unborn children and their parents at the Chapel of the Clinical Center for a reason, I quote, "because in prayer for the deceased during the artificial abortion procedure, persons who have decided, in accordance with their constitutional right, to have an artificial abortion for any personal reason could have been affected". In the event of the reality of this information, this would mean that the UKC has intervened in the freedom of conscience or religion, which is, in accordance with Article 41 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a fundamental human right. It has a special constitutional position, since even its provisional repeal or restriction is prohibited under the Constitution. Such conduct by the UKC constitutes a violation of Article 2 of the Religious Freedom Act. In the 2010 case, the Constitutional Court clearly held that the fundamental element of the right to religious freedom is the expression of internal personal decisions on the outside. I quote: " Confession means verbal or written expression of faith outside, including the purpose of spreading faith. In addition to religious teachings, worship or rite are essential for faith, as are other rules of conduct based on its teachings, as well as association within the community. Freedom of confession and exercise of faith shall be guaranteed to individuals and also to religious communities or associations, whether they are legal persons or not." Such conduct by the UKC is an unacceptable violation of the constitutional provision of Article 7 on freedom of operation of religious communities, which relates in particular to religious rituals and religious matters, or the constitutional principle of separation of the State and the Church, and Article 4 of the Religious Freedom Act. That's why we, Minister, are interested in the following: Did the management consult with the competent ministry when it prepared the response? How will you act, in accordance with your legal powers, to remove this unconstitutional situation without delay, including the initiation of appropriate procedures for determining the responsibility of the Head of the University Clinical Centre? In line with your jurisdiction, how will you act in the future in order to avoid such and similar wrongdoing?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Uroš Grilz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u138	Dear Member, Mrs Iva Dimic, honourable President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for asking. I must immediately answer that the UKC, as an independent public institution, is the one who is responsible for the provision of spiritual care in hospitals in a sovereign manner and has not consulted us in this regard. I must also say that my answer is based on the data that we have also been able to obtain from the department. I would also like to hear from the Minister of State here, which would then be a guarantee that you will get as complete a response as possible. Spiritual care in hospitals enables the exercise of the human right to freedom of conscience or religion to individuals who, due to hospitalization, cannot carry out confessions themselves outside the hospital premises. Once again, it is a matter of providing spiritual care to those individuals who cannot exercise these rights because of hospitalisation outside the hospital premises. In this part, the State, through the Constitution and in the field law, provides conditions for the exercise of spiritual concern, as you know, it also provides spiritual care for prisoners, soldiers and police on foreign missions. In particular, religious rituals are held in the chapel of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. These rituals are designed for the religious spiritual care of hospitalized patients and their relatives, and they are performed by religious servants of religious communities. The correspondence between the UKC and the hospital priest obtained by the Ministry shows that the management of the UKC did not trouble either the religious ritual or the work of the hospital priest or the spiritual care of hospitalized patients and their relatives. So what was the problem? The only problem was the intention to intervene and cooperate with an organisation that is not a religious community but a private institution and, on behalf of religious freedom, to open up a controversy about another human right, which is also enshrined in the Constitution, Article 55. We are talking about the right to a free abortion. It follows from the correspondence that the UKC’s leadership, by trying to avoid this type of controversy, has protected the visual neutrality that is prescribed for all public institutions under the conditions of constitutional separation. There are no arguments at the Ministry of Culture to argue that the decision of UKC management would affect freedom of conscience or religion. Nor do we find any arguments for the claim to intervene in the freedom of operation of religious communities. We believe that this decision did not give rise to an unconstitutional situation, nor to any illegal situation that would require the pursuit of some responsibility. As a competent minister, however, I think that the whole matter is likely to be affected by a lack of dialogue among all stakeholders, which is unfortunately very common in this country. Dialogue is also the only way to prevent such extremely sensitive matters for each individual in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u139	Mrs Dimic has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The university clinical center or management cannot interfere with the restriction on the purpose of a religious ceremony for any purpose. I think it's an invasion of religious freedom. In spite of all of this, unborn children are also people, so we all have the right to feel sorry for them and to carry out ambitious purposes to that end. I don't know if you have another explanation, but that's why this subject seemed worth asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'm sorry again. I'll say what I know. I'm sorry we're missing another very important conversationalist. Perhaps I would add only that there is yet another argument that we have not mentioned and which we have also traced from the media. A similar mass took place several times, but not in the way that it happened or was supposed to happen this year. So far, such a mass has not been organised in cooperation with civil society, so claims UKC leadership, nor has it been advertised in the public media. As Minister, I therefore propose and urge, I appeal that we avoid the issue and danger of mixing two constitutional rights, the constitutional right to spiritual care and the constitutional right to ceasing pregnancy; and that the management of the UKC, together with the providers of spiritual care and also with civil society, establish an appropriate dialogue and find a solution that will be good for what spiritual care is originally intended. I appeal to dialogue, and I want this not to give rise to a major political issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Majda Potrat to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Secretary-General, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me immediately tell you what my question is, briefly and clearly, as we have heard today that it must be. The following is the case: By what measures does the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport provide accessible and quality public education? It's the acctorial framework for this first. On March 20th, the year has passed, which you, the distinguished minister, have sworn in the National Assembly to make public good, the public benefit of your fundamental concern. Social Democrats are advocates of quality public education, so we have been dissatisfied with your predecessor in many ways, and we have also drawn up an interpretation against him. Let me remind you of the things that bothered us most about his actions. In the ZUJF – I think the shortcut is widely known – there were as many as one fifth of the articles devoted to education and education. Thus, the ZUJF has been preparing some small reform in the field of education without predicting it and without introducing any change into responsible or competent district laws. These changes, which have been recorded in the ZUJF, have not yet been fully implemented, in particular those which concern the reduction of standards and standards because they did not have this change of support in the social partners. However, it was predicted that even after the adoption of the ZUJF, savings would be directed towards disproportionate interference with education, science and sport. That's why I want to know: After one year of your work, what can you put before the public as those measures that this year are those that provide accessible and quality public education? This is essential for us because the situation, in particular the financial situation, has not yet been fully consolidated in large part. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u145	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this matter. At the outset, I will reply in a few rough outline to give a picture of everything we have done to provide accessible and quality public education. It is certainly the first thing that we have managed to reverse the trends that have occurred in this country and have gone towards privatisation that have gone towards the deterioration of the quality of education, through the deterioration of the norms and standards that we have and have been in force for many years in our country. Normatives and standards are not only because we believe that Social Democrats need to stay, but are the basis of the quality of education, but are the basis of the quality of what we can certainly praise in certain segments today, that our school system is probably among the top twenty, not in the European Union, but in the world. With exceptional global competition, our system is probably among the top twenty in the world. Throughout our work, in one year, as you yourself mentioned, we come from a submenu of accessible, quality education, education and research for all. At the same time, we want to take delicate steps, but still take steps forward, i.e. steps towards modernisation, steps towards this, because there is still a possibility of progress and things can always be improved. Our maxim is that we are probably one of the most important ministries, as far as the development of individuals is concerned, in an ugly way, of strategic raw materials called our people. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are an excellent strategic source and it is right to develop these human resources to the absolute potential, i.e. its or its abilities. Taking into account all the individual and individual specificities of each individual. In particular, I can say that in this direction, we have strengthened the three-partit dialogue with the directors, with the unions, because we believe that this is the course of action that leads to appropriate changes. We have provided adequate funding for the entire school system by vertical. I can say that we have realized that decision that the previous government did not wish to implement, i.e. 16 million for higher education in the previous year. This is a decision taken by the National Assembly. And of course 16 million, plus 16 million money for science this year. We have also added 6.1 million for the second stage of the Bologna study, because so far the second stage of the Bologna study has been underfunded and needs this supplement. I have to say, we saved oz. we're solving questions about fictitious entries. It is not right for people to enroll in schools, then take advantage of social and other benefits that go along with schooling, and at the same time do not build up the potential that I spoke about earlier. I can say that among all these measures or things, we have also calmed the school space. Today, there is no longer a question of norms and standards, but it is a question of upgrading the quality of education. And if I may, we have done one more thing, we have prevented – and that is what the court later found – the misuse of budgetary resources in granting concessions for higher education institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer. You are probably also aware that I have asked the Government with a specific written question and that I have asked how it will be with the norms and standards in the future, because the requirements for reducing the size of the public sector do not come to an end. Different statements can be perceived and cannot be avoided. But what I was particularly interested in was whether there were plans to prepare professional bases to prevent negative impacts, if any, in the future due to the adopted fiscal rule. However, the scope of education resources will have to be reduced in any way. That's one thing I'm interested in. The other thing that I am very interested in is that when using or drawing on European funds and commenting on how successful we are in doing so, it may also be noted that there is not always a clear boundary between public and private. In the last part of your reply, you also spoke about this when you mentioned how you prevented the untransparent or uneconomic use of public funds that were supposed to flow into the private sector. I certainly want to know how to bring these two together, because to close your eyes before the fact that if there is no budget, something will have to be done in this direction. Thank you for that part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u149	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, it's principled. I think it would be very bad for this country to give up or to reduce funds on the part that I believe is the farthest vital part of this society, which means the future of this society. If we're going to cut funds here, then in 20 years, I'm not going to say, God help you, but something like that. For it is a matter of progress, it is a matter of development. Nor do I see, but not only at this declaration level, but I also work like this, it is not a cost issue, but an investment issue that can be very richly repaid in the future. It's not just that. It is our duty as a society to develop in each individual his or her abilities to the maximum. As far as your question of norms and standards is concerned, we are not currently preparing such analyses. However, we have a constant dialogue with the social partners, as I said before, and we are also trying to implement these small corrections with which the social partners agree. I think it's right that we work, but not at the horror and not the average and the beginning, but very subtle and with a lot of insight into what this means for the future. However, as far as the EU is concerned, funds or the story of moving from public to private must be particularly sensitive. I think our primary concern, our concern as states, is for the public. If anyone wants to supplement with a private one, it is his constitutional right, and it is the same. But let him do it for his money and his resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is mag. Branko Grims has a question for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Method Draganjo.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u152	Good-bye to all of you. Dear Minister, one of the main points of your programme, which you presented at the event, was investing in research and development in the Slovenian economy or in entrepreneurship. When we talk about research and development, we are also actually talking about science in the broader sense of the word. I would therefore like to start with a proposal based on what we have heard in Parliament today. The Prime Minister of the Government said that raising VAT "has certainly not burdened the Slovenian economy". So far, textbooks have said that raising VAT burdens the economy across all sides, which, due to higher VAT, is long-term less competitive on the global market. This epochal discovery by the President of the Government certainly deserves all the attention and I suggest that you explore within the Government the possibility of proposing it for the Nobel Prize for Economics, because it has discovered something that is equal to the perpetuum of mobile phones. You raise VAT, and by quoting Mrs Alenko Bratušek, "there is no burden on the economy", you collect more taxes and the economy is not burdened. It's basically a perpetuum mobile, really something extraordinary, and it deserves this Nobel Prize for Economics. When it comes to research and development, I wanted to draw attention to the following: how this is happening in practice. Control over these investments shall be carried out by the Tax Administration when it determines what an undertaking can apply as a relief and what it does not. I would like to remind you that these reliefs were lower before the time of time and perhaps control was not so strict at the time because they were 40%. Then the government of Janez Janša, or a coalition led by the SDS, voted that 100 % of investment in research and development is facilitated. Since then, things have changed a lot and, in particular, in the last period, this issue has been very pressing for a number of companies that simply delete these reliefs or require them to just get in and settle them. When it comes to deciding what research and development are, it is essential that you decide what science is, what real investment in R & D is. And that's why I'm interested in your assessment: Is the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia competent enough to decide what is invested in research and development and what is not; or are these mechanisms, in your opinion, appropriate to act in the direction of the objective of investing in R & D as much as possible? For this is what a competitive economy does in the long run. If there is no investment in R & D, each economy stagnates or even deteriorates and this applies to any undertaking in any field.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u154	Dear Member, honourable Members, Members! Days 5. Ten. In 2012, the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia published the Regulation on the application of tax incentives for investment in research and development, which established a new way of applying tax reliefs in this field and provided that the taxable person may reduce the amount of R & D investments. In its Article 5, the Regulation specified what is considered to be R & D. This Regulation was created in cooperation with the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, which was currently responsible for the field of science and technological development. Definitions have been drawn up on the basis of the applicable rules for the definition of R & D in Europe. The tax administration has already assessed in the past the eligibility of the application of R & D relief, and the adoption of the Regulation referred to above has resulted in a more precise definition of what R & D are and what the taxpayers may claim to reduce the tax base. The reason for the more precise definition was also the fact that Durs may, in certain border cases, request an opinion from the Ministry or in a particular case, be it research and development or not. The Ministry has therefore proposed, when adopting the new regulation, clear criteria on the basis of which decision-making will be clearly established in these cases and will ensure the effectiveness of the measure, which can only be ensured by applying to eligible debtors who actually invest in R & D and thereby increase added value. The need for a clearer definition was also created by an increase in the degree of relief, as you yourself have been talking about. Since the definition of research and development in the case of State aid has been clearly drawn up and applied for a number of years, it was appropriate to apply such definitions also to the relief measure. This was a new way of defining tax inspectors, which has led to the need to cooperate several times between the Ministry and specific inspection services. It should also be pointed out that cooperation between the Ministry responsible for technological development and finance and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in this area has so far been intensive and constructive. All stakeholders took part in the preparation and implementation of an information day for the debtors on which the new provisions of the Regulation and the grounds for the application of the allowances were presented, as well as in the procedures led by the Tax Administration in this regard. In addition, the Ministry responsible for technological development has carried out several trainings for inspectors on research and development definition. Ensuring the professional competence of tax inspectors is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and Dursa; however, we can ensure that our assessment of their expertise in this segment builds up and that they receive continuous training. On the basis of all of this, it can be estimated that, at a given time, inspectors are well-trained, that they can make appropriate and professional decisions on the eligibility to impose a tax relief, whether it is research and development or not. Work is not yet completed, the Ministry will continue to participate in specific training programmes for tax inspectors in cooperation with Durs and will provide appropriate clarifications to taxpayers so that the practice can be complemented accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u156	The Honourable Minister. What you said is definitely true. Things are now governed by the 2012 sub-legislative act, from the time of the next government. The central problem that I see here is that when we talk about investing in research and development, we are talking — once again, I stress — about science. The highest science is the one that actually decides about everything, it's the science that says what science is. This one has the most power. And today we are in entrepreneurship, when it comes to research and development, in an unusual situation, that the highest science in Slovenia is the Tax Office or tax inspection, which can decide whether something is research and development or not. And there are some very unusual cases, one of them I can tell you when a company develops the technology that they come to look at from the biggest Slovenian institute, from the Institute of Josef Štefan within its curriculum, because it is something so special, to avoid in the world. The following year, the Tax Administration will come and ask the same company to report that it was misappropriating tax relief; and that those expensive appliances and all the technology they developed are not investing in science and development at all; and that they are therefore able to pay the tax immediately and in full, but not only the tax but also the interest back from that last year. And this in the company causes – we know that we are working in the Slovenian economy today in the environment, when things are very difficult because of the situation we are in – practically insurmountable problems. [[sign for the end of the debate]] promoting investment in research and development. [[…]] Are you sure that people are qualified enough and that these methods used in practice in this field are appropriate?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u158	Yes, thank you for further clarification. A 100 % assurance that all uniformly and fully apply the Regulation in an appropriate manner is certainly not possible. This is the process of education, the development of practice based on standards, which are also further partly defined by the accounting profession and accounting standards. Of course, if problems are in particular – and manipulation is always possible – it is always necessary to judge by the different criteria and by the methodologies that are further specified. The main aim is to recognise investments that form the basis for a new, additional traffic as a new additional realisation on the market. The key is what it means to maintain the company's current activities, what are new products, new investments in new services, new products and new technologies that will create a new activity – a new realisation on the market. This is the segment that I think is most crucial to whether it is an appropriate investment and an appropriate enforcement of the tax relief, which is one of the largest in Europe. I think that statistics will also show that it has shown some of it in last year and will certainly show, on the basis of the processing of company accounts, that private sector R & D investments have increased significantly in companies over the last 2 years, suggesting that these investments have probably not been properly recorded in the company's financial statement capture system. By making greater use of these tax reliefs by companies, and the extent of this use could also be specified through a concrete response that the investment in research and development between the public sphere and the private sphere is now significantly overtaken by the additional major acceleration that tax relief has given to the scope of private sector research development activities [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u160	That's what this is all about. The fact is that in the past two years it has been shown that the law adopted by the Government of Janez Janša and the coalition under the leadership of the SDS has been the right measure in the right place and at the right time. Investments in R & D were extremely low in Slovenia, and this needs to be stressed, and they have already deviated in a negative direction in the past from the other situations within the European Union. Even now, even with this relief, they are still not as everyone would have liked, especially in view of the situation in which we, when everything should have been done in order to achieve this very goal that you, Minister, yourself, have been talking about. This is to open up new highly productive jobs to add value to open new markets with new products with new technologies. In short, to make this part as alive as possible and to make our economy as competitive as possible. It is precisely because of the importance of investing in research and development – because at strategic level the future of the Slovenian economy, the future of the Slovenian economy, entrepreneurship and thus Slovenia as a whole, the well-being of all – that is to say, the answer of the Minister and the issue of investing in research and development and tax facilitation in this area is being discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u161	Thank you very much. In the framework of the votes, we will decide on your proposal. The next is Mrs Alenka Jeraj, who will raise the question of Tanja Sharabon, Secretary-General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. The Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency is a self-service service of the Government. She's headed by a director who's responsible for the government's work. That is why I am asking the Secretary-General of the Government of Tanjo Sharabon about the information that we can read from the media, particularly by a researcher from Mr Roman Leljak, who is talking about that Milan Doric – Hansi, who was formerly a co-worker of the former State Security Service, later worked with the Owl. After reporting to the media, Sova is to be led under the names of Siva and White Viator. I want to know: What was the nature of his cooperation or employment? What function did he have, or was he in Germany at the time, as he was today, why and for what work he was employed in Owl?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Secretary General, Mrs. Sharabon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you so much for asking. As Secretary-General of the Government, I can answer Members' questions relating to the scope of operation of the General Secretariat of the Government and government services, which fall within the competence of the Secretary-General of the Government. In the past, I have received two questions from the soviet field of action. For the third time now, I have explained that I am not competent to answer this question. Article 4 of the Law on Owl provides that the Agency shall be chaired by a Director responsible for his work to the Government. Sova is as a self-service government agency responsible for its work to the government and to the president of the government. As Secretary-General, therefore, I do not have the power to answer questions in this area. The delegation could ask this question to the bigger Prime Minister of the Government or could raise a written question to the Government. In view of the content, it would be appropriate for the chairman of the Agency to answer this question in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I'd still like to comment. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly may have decided that the question of Ambassador Jerajeva shall be addressed correctly and at the right address. That's why your answer surprised me a little bit. In the future, it would be good for you to clear up such matters with the President of the National Assembly. This time, however, I can only conclude that you have not answered the question raised, which is obviously in the opinion of the President of the National Assembly, which has been raised in accordance with the rules of the National Assembly. Would you like another word, Mrs. Jeraj? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u166	You actually said what I wanted you to say. As it is said, since the Office under the Government or the Director responsible to the Government is in charge, I feel that someone should only answer this question. It's probably a little awkward, but still -- we'll see if we'll ask the President of the Government later, even though I think you're the one who should answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u167	Here you go, Secretary General.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u168	The fact is that the Commission is initially responsible for the supervision of the work of the Owl for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. Everyone in their area shall also be supervised by the Court of Auditors, the Information Officer, the Labour Inspectorate, the Public Sector Inspectorate, the Internal Affairs Inspectorate, including the Secret Data Inspectorate. Therefore, as Secretary-General, I cannot and must not comment on the particulars given on the data provided by the Soviet Union on specific matters. The Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency shall carry out its tasks in accordance with the second paragraph of the Law on Owl, which provides, inter alia, that the Agency acquires and evaluates data from abroad relevant to the security, political and economic interests of the State, as well as data on organisations, groups and persons which, by their activity abroad or in connection with foreign affairs, threaten or threaten the national security of the State and its constitutional arrangements. The activities carried out by the Agency for this purpose shall be marked by an appropriate level of secrecy, in accordance with the applicable rules. It is therefore not possible to comment on them in public or to provide more detailed explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We will continue with the following questions. To conclude, the President of the National Assembly clearly considered you to be the right person to answer that question. Mag. Katarina Hočevar has a question for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities as Dr. Anjo Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Dear ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! My question today is about the institution of custody, which is regulated by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The main reason is that in this law we have the same structure since the distant year 1977, this is the year in which I was born alone. I believe that since then a lot has changed and that legislation must also follow changes and social conditions. That's why I want to know: Are you planning any changes at the Ministry in this area? I know that the Institute of Welfare itself is a very broad topic for the question of emissary, so I would limit myself to or warn you that social work centres in practice are faced with the difficulty of getting people who want to be custodians because, by law, this duty is honorable and voluntary. As they point out in practice, more and more people need it. In some ways, I would like to compare this with the fact that if someone commits a crime, they are legally owned by a lawyer or a lawyer. Counselor. If a citizen finds himself in a situation where he needs a caregiver, his relatives or relatives do not want to be, the problem may arise in practice and the centres face the difficulty of finding out for themselves. If they do not get someone in a narrow family circle who will be willing to accept this function, it is now often a task for employees of social work centres. This in practice, as I am warned, presents problems. That's why I want to know: Whether you are expecting or planning changes at the Ministry in this area and whether you are thinking in the direction of professionalization of this institute. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you for asking. Certainly custody is one of the areas in need of renovation. However, I must say that in the Family Code – which was adopted in 2011 and then rejected in the referendum – it is now a round anniversary, which happened on 25 March – guardianship is also envisaged as an honorable and voluntary function. At that time, we discussed much about the urgent need for a more comprehensive analysis of custody, but at the time of the preparation and adoption of the Family Code, which so comprehensively regulated the whole area of family matter, it was not possible for all these individual segments to be fully regulated. This has already been agreed in the previous term to carry out an analysis of the custody functions as to how they are carried out. A work visit was also organized in Zagreb, where our neighbours introduced a paying custody function. However, it was the last time we spoke at the college, the findings and analyses show that this mechanism is also not the most effective. Until each change, it is necessary to carry out a comprehensive analysis and then decide. In any case, the Family Code is part of the government's plan, which was to be adopted in November at the government. And by the way, why is this hand? Since the Family Code will not be identical to what the National Assembly adopted two years ago, it is now three years ago. Caring is also one of the instruments to re-examine these matters. I would add that the custodian cannot be a person who is in conflict of interest with the interests of the protector, i.e. the one for whom he is to be appointed as the custodian. Therefore, it is increasingly a problem that family members cannot be custodians without wanting to, in fact, cannot be. According to the information we have from the Centre for Social Work, it is a centre for social work or social work. staff at the social work centre serve as custodian from 15 to 20% of the total guardianship. When we look at this, it is not within the concept of custody of a major problem, but the problem is mainly in individual cases where custodians do not even have the knowledge to work for the best. Not that they don't want to, they just don't have the skills. It is necessary to review the system from this point of view whether the individual who performs this function, honourably and voluntarily, is, in some way, appointed by the CSD to do so, whether he has all the competences, or whether the State establishing this institution provides him with sufficient support to carry out this function. It paid only one element of the very issue of the organisation of this institute, and we will certainly work on it. I cannot tell you at this point that there will be any significant innovation in the law on this, because it is simply our scope of work at this point in the Ministry of Marriage and Other Matter that I cannot accept new tasks; but we will work professionally and will also be prepared for changes if it turns out that they are absolutely necessary. Even if it's not this year, it'll be a little later.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you for that part of the answer. I wanted to draw attention to what happened to me by employees or employees at social work centers. In a specific case, the staff said what problems they faced when one of the immediate family members did not want or could not be a caregiver and then were forced to appoint someone who was employed at the social work center. Within this function, they must, for example, contribute to the signature of whether a citizen who needs a caregiver will go to chemotherapy or be allowed to operate. These staff members of the Centre for Social Work want to say that these are matters which, according to their assessment, go beyond the tasks and duties of the employment contract or the duties of the staff member, are staff members at the Centre for Social Work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u176	Certainly, as I mentioned, it is not only a matter of professionalism, so the payment for this work, where there is a reward for the work done and also the reimbursement of costs, so there is already within the system, not completely free work, but you have a refund and you can also get a reward. The problem is in particular knowledge and perhaps also in connection with the reorganisation of social work centres in order to establish teams. I'm still having a hard time commenting, but I'd like to. It would normally be the case that the guardian, who has been placed before such a difficult task, has some kind of support, including supervision within the system of social work centres, in order to be able to rely on a wider collective in such important and challenging tasks that he must carry out. Within the system, the possibility must be given that when people assess that their knowledge and behaviour is not sufficient to be able to provide certain services, it is clear within the system what to turn to, what support mechanisms are. There is also a greater role in the community of social institutions in this moment. I believe it should be. Surely there are differences between social work centres, between these 62. It may be one example of this, another; but I believe that in well-functioning centres for social work it is only an opportunity for an individual to suffer in such cases, that there is a system where more people can sit and talk and there is a solution to reduce pressure on the individual concerned who has this role of custodian. However, social work centres with these roles are often very critical. But when we see the content of individual tasks, it's like you said. They are very difficult cases, and sometimes they really do work, where others don't even know how important and difficult they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Franz Breznik, who has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr. Chufer, who is absent, but you will probably ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here today, but I will ask my oral question. My oral question is the same as it was recently. In my opinion, this is an incredible situation, an incredible set of circumstances and an affair that has not been compared in the last 10 years in the field of finance in the Republic of Slovenia. It is a story that we have been able to track in the media already in January and February that Slovenian companies face yet another significant problem in recent weeks. News of the reprogramming of credits to some companies is on the way. To companies that have been very poor in the time of fat cows, especially in dealing greedily with property, income and generally business policy of the company. It's about managers again, two specific cases. Bad loans from 2 major Slovenian companies have been transferred to a bad bank, I am talking about ACH and DZS. Several bad loans have been transferred, and I am exposing these companies for a particular reason. This is because the bad bank has taken over the bad claims granted to the companies by Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Nova KBM. Both companies had written off a one-year moratorium on debt principals. Both companies, which have different economic areas, have been saved for at least another year, despite a total debt of €280 million. In particular, the ACH managers have been rescued, the main ones are Mr Herman Rigelnik and Mr Bojan Petan, who is the main owner of the DHS. Both of them received the main word in their financial empires through management acquisition, from which they also derived a large part of the debt of both companies. The moratorium on the repayment of credits means, in the first place, the resolution of those managers who have carried out acquisitions without money in their pocket. In doing so, Mr Petan paid a monthly gross salary of 50,000 euros in the years when Slovenia was in crisis, as well as its companies. I am talking about 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, when its annual gross wages ranged between EUR 600,000 and EUR million. I therefore ask again the Minister for Finance: Who approved and by what methodology did the moratoriums on these loans? This is important because the Minister of Finance is the person who also proposed three non-executive directors to the bad bank. On the one hand, I care about supervision in a bad bank, and on the other hand I ask it as someone who must also have control over our banking system, especially in two state-owned banks, namely New KBM and NLB. I believe I'll get an answer at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We'll have the minister prepare an oral response for the next meeting. Daniel Krivec, who has a question for two ministers, is Minister of Finance and Minister of Economic Development and Technology of Mr Dragonjo.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting to all ministers, especially Minister Dragonji, who is present! Indeed, the question concerns both ministries, in particular the Ministry of Finance. This is a problem with corporate deleveraging, which we also discussed yesterday in the Committee on the Economy. The sale of state property is smooth without clear and transparent procedures. The list of companies to be sold has already appeared in public, but there is no clear evidence of the Government's concrete arguments in its decision to sell individual companies. The Government supplemented the text of the Proposal for a Decision of the National Assembly on the consent to sell the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Society, the Soda, the Blue Insurance Offices, the DSU and the Special Enterprise Cooperation Company. The objective of the sale of state property was clearly defined, namely: achieving the highest possible purchase price and thus budgetary revenues, achieving sustainable and stable economic growth, continuing existence and development of the company, new investments, opening up new markets and maintaining and increasing jobs in the domestic economy. The reasons for the sale are different, as explained by the Ministry of Finance, mostly due to financial problems in companies, as well as bankruptcy procedures. The Minister of Finance said, quote: "If we want to do this as qualitatively as possible and also to maximize the price, it is important that we do not reduce credibility and really go through the procedure transparently and professionally." I now turn to the question which is in some way a consequence of all the newspaper articles in the last period, which concerns Letrika d. d., where there are some circumstances in the sale process that show that this statement by the Minister of Finance is questionable. I therefore ask in connection with the sale of shares in Letrika d. d.: How is the sale of state ownership shares in Letrika d.d. sold by consortia established? As a minister, do you think the sale process is transparent in view of all that is read in serious newspapers such as Work, Finance and the like? What measures, procedures, ensure this transparency? How will it be ensured that taxpayers will not be fooled by a low purchase due to friendly ties? Are prices ordered by all state institutions and banks in which the State has a share and are currently in the sales phase? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! In 2010 the Capital Investment Management Agency or AUKN was established under the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. It managed capital investments in accordance with that law until the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act in 2013, by which the Capital Investment Management Act ceased to apply. Currently, according to the Slovenian State Holding Act on the management of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia and those owned by the Slovenian Compensation Company, the Slovenian Compensation Society is responsible. This will, as provided for in the transitional provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, be transformed into SDH. This means, in particular, that no procedures shall be carried out in the framework of a body within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology on the issue of the sale of State ownership shares in the company named Lektrik, and that the Ministry of Finance will provide specific answers in this part in writing. In addition, I would explain that the Government is submitting to the National Assembly the monthly report of the Slovenian Indemnity Company on the management of capital investments. The latest report relating to January 2014 was forwarded to the National Assembly on 14 March. While this report does not yet contain a status report on the activities of the Court on this particular company. The government must certainly ensure that the Court or later reformulated the Slovenian State Holding will take over all sales procedures in order to be guided transparently, effectively, with a clear objective of maximising the purchase price and with other criteria, which will be set up from case to case if necessary to ensure the quality of the company's further development. Once again, as it concerns MGRT, after the current inter-ministerial division of the issue [[Incomprehensible]] covers the field of operation of the Ministry. However, we will, together with colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and the Court, give concrete answers in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u184	I thank the Minister of Economy for his reply. I believe that the part he was able to answer was also explained. I think there's going to be another supplement here. In view of yesterday's debate, where we have found that there are several issues and anomalies in the deleveraging of businesses. Also with regard to my question about the sale of ownership shares in Lektrica, we get some incomprehensible numbers. I believe the Ministry of Finance will be able to provide some explanation. For the transfer of 10% of Letrica's share, which is not a society in difficulty or bankruptcy, but a company that is listed on the stock market and which has been doing very well in recent years. It was transferred to the DUTB – A company for bank claims management of 10.5 euros at the time when the stock exchange value of these shares was 31 euros. This can lead us all to some doubt about transparency. Today, this stock is worth 42 euros. All the reasons that speak of transfers to a bad bank as a condition that the company is in trouble are, in this case, eliminated. So far, no one has explained why the transfer of shares is carried out at such a low price that is significantly lower than the market price. That everything is not right, recent articles in Finance and letters received by Members from small shareholders show that it is a concern that in this case there should not be damage and also to the sale of shares of a good company under the table, but that the procedure would go transparently to the benefit of taxpayers, small shareholders and also to the benefit of the company itself, which is doing well at the moment and which is listed well on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Minister, comment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u186	Yesterday evening, this issue was raised at a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on the Economy. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance has provided a sufficiently concrete reply that the transfer of credits or positions of assets from commercial banks to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims took place at the estimated value, i.e. an internal transaction between banks and the Bank Recovery Agency, at a value that was subject to the methodology for transferring claims to a bad bank and which was also subject to review and approval by the European Commission. This does not mean that in the next step, if and when further sales take place or the privatisation of this stock package, these shares will be sold at the same value. This is the next step and in the next step it is necessary to ensure fair value or real market price. However, in the case of the sale of the package, the offers of institutional owners, which are under the auspices of the State, must be combined, so that larger packages are sold and uniform conditions are laid down for how the offer is to be made for the sale of the shares packages. As I said before, in particular, all questions will be answered in writing and some clarifications were given at yesterday's Parliamentary Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u187	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the reply of the Minister and later the Minister of Finance be discussed in the National Assembly. I would like to draw attention to signs that, as a non-transparent process of selling state ownership shares in Lektrica, d.d., started to appear at the last shareholder assembly, when representatives of the state sales consortium, which was created by the Blue Insurance Company, NLB and others, did not support the candidate for the Supervisory Board of Lektrica. As far as possible, there is another question. No one has deepened much about this, nor have research journalists, but it is in some ways a potential danger of harming the state and other shareholders. I think that in some way they would be naive if they did not understand that it is clear that there is a strong conflict of interest between collectors, which in this case is placed as an exposed buyer who wants to buy shares at the lowest possible price on the one hand; and on the other hand, the responsible State and other shareholders who want the selling price to be the highest possible and even in some way fair. I therefore propose that this should still be discussed below and that these strange circumstances be clarified. But there were a lot of delinquency discussions yesterday. Members of Parliament may be concerned that we did not get an answer yesterday, either, whether similar practices in other countries are the same as in Slovenia. It is said that banks are getting rid of the same administrations as the banking system, whether it is a foreign practice for some people, at least in the part where bad loans are being resolved, to withdraw from the decision-making phase, and in the part where they move to a bad bank. Not that the same people who have led to bad loans now have the opportunity to influence what will be transferred. And not only what will be passed on, but also what value is transferred. And here there can be doubts about the actual transparency and cost-effectiveness of such solutions. We did not get this answer yesterday either from foreign representatives of the Bank Claims Management Company; however, I think it would be very useful for further consideration of this topic. Practices in Europe are, according to our information, such that at least the part that is most responsible for bad investments is withdrawn. We are not talking about liability, but they are not cooperating, and at least this part of the transfer process to a bad bank is being done with a proper team. Until this is done, it may be doubtful whether these things are transparent or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Your proposal to hold a general debate on the Minister's response will be decided tomorrow in the context of the vote. It is now up to Mr Janez Ribič, who has a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. Diana jeedan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Minister, Your Honor. All of us, in our own way, are likely to make sure that the situation in the area of chimneys in our country is regulated so that they are satisfied operators and, above all, users. For at least five, six years, I've been asking Members of Parliament questions, and now somehow I feel that some things are probably just moving. Minister, last October, at the edge of the adoption of the Law on Environmental Protection in the National Assembly, you announced publicly that every citizen would be free to choose chimneys. At the same time, you have also stressed that political consensus has been achieved for the transition to the licensing market system, and great progress has been made. The Environmental Protection Act was amended in this part in October last year, probably enabling it to change, and people across Slovenia are looking forward to that, too. Since then, it's been five months, and I've had other MPs knock on my sleeve and ask me what's wrong with it? It is unknown to the public whether there may be obstacles to the establishment of this new system. So now I'm asking you publicly that all people will be able to hear: When are they actually going to be able to choose their own chimney? We fixed the marriage almost six months ago. Why hasn't that changed in practice? I also ask: Are there any obstacles at the Ministry? There can be no others, since the smoker service system has so far been fully regulated as a public service. If you have any obstacles here, I would ask you to tell me, not just me, but at least to the Slovenian public, who are these obstacles and how you save them. I'm asking you what people are most interested in, in a way, was your promise to be able to choose their chimney after the new. Now say here that we will all firsthand hear your answer, when this will actually happen and whether this will happen during your term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. In particular, thank you, Mr Member, for this current issue. There are also many such questions coming to the Ministry and we are answering them. As you yourself said, honourable Member, with the adoption of the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, there has been a definitive movement which the law has in some ways prescribed, namely that chimneys are only carried out until 31 December 2015. At that time, a two-year deadline was given for the transition to a new system, which was written in law. At that time, we talked a lot about whether it was too short, right, or too long. We have had cases because we contacted some other countries that went from the so-called cehovsky to the liberal system, how they did it. The example of Germany, which is an example in some areas. They took three years to come from one system to another. The only serious restriction was that there was no system or register of combustion plants, which is the basis. Even in the future, when this market system is in place, it is true that the user, as customers of cleaning or maintenance services, is obliged because we need to protect not only ourselves but also the property of others, to operate with a chimney company which we choose for ourselves. The register is being charged at this point. The register is in place and filled. That's the basics. The concession contracts, which have already expired, shall be extended only until 31 December, the date which you have adopted by Members and Members of Parliament. Or I'll see it as a minister, and I really don't know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u194	Thanks for the answer in this part. I would like to say that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia has very well assessed the situation in this area. Much earlier, she had made a very good assessment of the situation in this area.Civil Society from Maleknik near Maribor led by Jožet Škof and Ivan Šarfer. These people have put a lot of effort and perseverance into this, and I thank them, because in some ways they have responded to people themselves, helped them find solutions. I understand that concession contracts are concluded and expire at different times. You say yourself that you are extending them until the end of 2015. Of course, people expected or expected it to be immediately or, in a short time, three months. For each area, will you separately introduce a licensing system for each municipality at the end of the concession contract? Are you going to solve this in the middle? What will happen to those contracts if they are, of course, that will not expire by this date? How much will then be the penalty for those contracts that will not expire by then? In the meantime, what will happen to other decisions on supply standards and prices adopted by the Committee on the Environment when you were the chairman of this Committee? "I don't know if it's settled. Do you really need so much time to regulate state records of combustion plants by the end of 2015? If I understand correctly, if this is not until the end of 2015, this means that it will only be after your government is gone, and we hope that it will not remain just in words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u195	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u196	I don't know when the election is. I know it's the end of 2015, next year. Whether then we will await the new system – as ministers on our way out – we will wait for the new government to take over – or not, I really can't assess it now, as neither of us is likely in politics. At that time, the date was agreed within the National Assembly, the law is above the regulation, the law is above the rules. The Ministry and the Minister must hold on to the law and deadline which was then adopted in the National Assembly, and we will do so in any case. The hardest thing was actually to make a register, but it was done and we financed it, so it was done. Standards are already being developed, and we have standards in the final stages of neighbouring countries, with which we are friendly, so that there is no fear here. I am aware, Mr Member, that probably as well as I am coming, there are various providers who can still provide chimney services and would like to go immediately to a liberalised system, but like us, so must they keep the law. We, too, respond to the irregularities we have identified through inspection services, but we are all aware that the current system is out. I believe that it will be new to the user's views, that is, us, better and cheaper – and this is a common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u197	Thank you very much for the supplementary answer. Mr Marijan Pojbič, who has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anjo Kopač Dark, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My question is that, according to the content, it has little to do with the economic field and also with the field of work and family. Since the Minister of Economy was here, I expected that if it was necessary to help the Minister of Labour, the family, in part. Dear Minister, I ask: How do you imagine that Slovenia will emerge from the crisis and that unemployment will be reduced? Nothing happens in the field of new jobs except additional burdens with new taxes and obligations on employers. The economy continues to collapse, one independent entrepreneur closes every 160 minutes. To accept taxes, here I mean real estate tax, VAT hikes, as far as I hear a new crisis tax is being prepared and so on. In addition, you have raised the prices of vignettes and could also list them. All of this still has a significant impact on the increase in unemployment, which, according to informal information, has broken the number of 130 000 unemployed. Therefore, Madam Minister, I cannot understand how you can sit quietly in the government that is taking this country to total collapse or collapse. bankruptcy, and do virtually nothing to change the situation in this area. I am sure that you are still aware of the extremely serious problem and the situation facing Slovenia and our people who have a great problem connecting the end to the end, from month to month and on the edge of poverty suffer and fight for survival. But the government gladly lends money to those who live in abundance, namely, to the privileged, to the uncles from behind. On the other hand, let the poor leave the people at the very edge of poverty. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: What short- and long-term measures will you take, when will you suggest that unemployment will begin to decline or that new jobs will start with higher added value and thus reduce unemployment?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u199	Thank you so much for asking. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u200	Thank you for asking. Given the competences, I would probably get a better answer from my colleague if we asked the Minister of Economy this question. I'll answer what's in my jurisdiction. As Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, I have the highest priority for active employment policy. The active employment policy is basically aimed at reducing unemployment rates, primarily aimed at reducing the barriers faced by unemployed people in the labour market and is less in the job creation function. If we look at an active employment policy, the job creation measure is only and only public works. If you look at it from the moment I took up this function, we're only increasing public works. This year, it will be a record if you look at the history of Slovenia for 43 million for public works, which will include the long-term unemployed, estimated at 9 thousand people. Within active employment policies is a measure by which the IMF directly creates jobs, only public works. We're trying with all the means of redistribution to get the extra resources so we can do this. And let's do it and make it possible for as many of the most vulnerable unemployed as possible, so we focused our public works and focused mainly on the long-term unemployed. If we look at other active employment policy measures, you have training and education, where it is about trying to train or educate unemployed people who do not have a suitable level of skills or education, and on the other hand, we have job vacancies in the labour market and we are trying to reduce this gap, this structural unemployment. Then we have measures to subsidise employment, which are one of the most important. Why? You give the subsidy to a vulnerable group to make it more interesting in terms of employment by the employer. But as it was said yesterday in the show that the employer would open up a job, there must be a need for this job. When he needs to, of course, he thinks about who he will hire as the most suitable person for this job. There are subsidies within the framework of an active employment policy to the term because we are reducing labour costs. And here inside we can now say – A guarantee for young people as such a key measure within an active employment policy, where, by the way, we add 44.3 million this year. So in two years, about 200 million will be earmarked for this in order to increase active employment policy. The Youth Guarantees, however, are limited measures of active employment policy as well as other systemic measures that highlight the clear priority of youth orientation. I know it's hard for us to praise even before certain effects show up on the market. It is certainly not negligible, however, that our document of the Youth Guarantee Implementation Plan has been praised by the European Commission as one of the best among the Member States. It is also not easy, on the other hand, to know what we are facing with the pressures of people to provide 157 million for young people alone in the next 2 years. During last year, an intervention law has already been passed which exempts us from paying contributions to employers who employ a young unemployed person under the age of 30 who is registered at the employment institution for at least 3 months. According to data, since the law is in force from November onwards, up to February 700 young people were employed in this account. But it's also interesting to know, I have now in my head that 20,000 800 and a few young people last year have been hired. Of these, 42% of young people who have been registered at the institution have been employed by the Employment Service over 3 measures: by subsidising their employment, by subsidising their training in the workplace and also by providing them with a job. So these are our powers. I believe that we are doing a lot in the field of active employment policy. It must be said, however, that without economic growth – unfortunately, even when economic growth is somewhat higher, there will still be a shift to labour market activity, because whenever the economy is picked up, unfortunately the situation in the labour market will respond with a certain delay. People will judge how much we have given for social welfare, what we do, and what our actions are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u202	Dear Minister. Since this government is in power, I've heard thousands of big words, I don't know what big sentences we've been giving to do, we've taken some step forward. But there are no results. Unemployment is rising, we've broken the number, the magic limit is 130,000. And I don't understand, I absolutely don't understand what you're saying right now that it has virtually no effect, after everything that's going on in our society. I think that this policy, which you are taking, is some of the measures that I absolutely agree with and are good, but the whole government's policy in this area is wrong. Definitely wrong, because if it wasn't, we wouldn't be doing what's happening to us. And we are all aware together in this country, and this government should also be aware that without the real sector we will create new jobs, we have no chance. You yourself said that without new jobs, but you must say so – mainly in the real sector. They are the ones who are paying the government and all that the Ministry of Social Affairs can share with those who are socially at risk and so on. And if we do not do what is absolutely necessary in the real sector to ensure a better economic environment, to lower taxes to reduce the burden on the economy, we will not be able to move forward. And there's no way we can reduce unemployment in this way. There's no way. Minister, once again, I ask you: What will you do in this area so that the economy can breathe, or that you, as the district minister within this government, will help to improve the environment for the economy?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u203	Thanks for the extra question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Nevertheless, when it comes to how catastrophic the situation is at this point, a little look back at how much economic growth was in 2011. How much did you manage to put economic growth at zero in 2012 and look at 2013 – the last quarter where we had 2.1% economic growth. If we look at 2012 earlier from 2011, what are the many criticisms, probably some of the effects of drastic savings that you adopted in 2012, if you would take this forward, the question of if we had economic growth in the last quarter of 2013. Also for this year, 0.5 economic growth is foreseen; data for January of this year are encouraging. Industrial production increased by 4,4 % and by 13,2 % in agriculture. However, as I said earlier, things in the labour market are at a slow pace, as in 2008, when the crisis occurred, it did not immediately reflect in the unemployment rate, if you look at the numbers, it is a delay, so unfortunately there will be a revival. But I can still cheer you up that 130,000 is gone. If active employment policy measures were not so reinforced in 2013, the figures would probably be even worse. By the way, in 2012, unemployment was so low in active employment policy measures that we received a specific recommendation from the European Commission and last year 2013 the number of people involved in active employment policy measures was around 38% higher. These are numbers; you can say that people who are unemployed do not need active employment policy measures can be considered ineffective. I don't think so. The results are different. With regard to subsidies given for the employment of young people or older "Employ me", data show that 60% of those employed on the basis of the subsidy – i.e. through these measures of active employment policy – remain employed by the same or other employer even after the duration of the subsidy. And these are the results! In the active employment policy, not everything is as perfect as it is in any case, but in comparison with other data from other European countries, our actions are comparable to those of others.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u205	Mr Pojbič, you still have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u206	That's right. Madam Vice-President, I propose that we have a broader hearing on this issue in the National Assembly for the following reasons. With full responsibility, I claim to be dissatisfied with the Minister's response, especially because I did not ask her what happened in 2011, 2012, 2013. I'm asking how we're going to solve the situation in the future. It is true, however, that the Minister was very creative when she explained how things were going on in 2012, but did not tell what Pahor's government did in 2011, when GDP was minus 8%. And then there's 2010.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u207	Good. We're on a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u208	So, Pahor's government. Minister, I think that from the party where you and Mr Židan come from, you are, this is the team that you created at the time minus 8% of GDP. You did it. This is the success of the Pahor government, in which you have sat all those who are now sitting on this side, except for the Vice-President and the experts. And then how do you hope to talk about what happened in 2012, if you had already made such strategic mistakes and brought Slovenia to an extreme situation, then the government of Janez Janša tried to change that direction and took the right solutions. I'm sure of it. Madam Secretary! You will see for yourself, the moment will come when you are aware of your words. Do you know how you'll be aware of them? When you realize that, in addition to all other measures, savings are essential. And please go to the Slovenian people and they will tell you that no household at home can spend 30, 40% more than its produce. You as the secretary should be aware of this and then do not say what you said before and thus try to mislead the Slovenian public. We'll have to save. Everyone, every single one. Sadly, though, the vast majority of people on the brink of collapse will have to tighten their belts and at the expense of the privileged, the uncles in the background and those bastards who stole our system. This is unfair, unfair and irresponsible. And that's why we're trying to keep these bastards from getting caught. Not like today I read in the paper that Mr. Praprotnik will be given the post of Director in the NLB. What the hell is wrong with this government? Have you completely lost your compass?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u209	Is it a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u210	I have already said that my question is being debated.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u211	We are holding a general debate on the Minister's response. This will be decided in the context of the votes. Mr Zvonko Černač has a question for the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. It's a Jew. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u212	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! I have addressed the issue of the use of European cohesion funds to Minister Dejan Židan. For we are a year and 9 months before the end of the current financial perspective. We know that about half the funds are still unexploited. The contracts are almost all bound up, but we face problems of optimal use, optimal use and how to prevent the possibility that these funds will eventually remain unused or unused. As early as 2012, the other Janševa government faced extremely poor use of these funds, particularly in the field of environmental and transport infrastructure. At that time, this level of use did not reach even 10%. The measures taken in the first half of 2012 have improved the situation in a relatively short period of time, notably by improving the inclusion of new replacement projects under the so-called ‘substitute projects’. "overcommitment" and this was a guarantee that Slovenia will draw on everything that was negotiated during the first Janša government in mid-2006 in this perspective. In recent months, however, we have again faced conflicting information. On the one hand, we are hearing information that we are contractually committed to almost all the funds, somewhere at 98% of what is available in this financial perspective. On the other hand, administratively blocked projects that have already been legally-elected for more than half a year, obtained all the permits, so the projects we call "ready to go" projects that could have been implemented since August of last year. This makes unnecessary added costs, since operators have to extend bank guarantees since the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Cohesion Service have not issued administrative decisions for more than half a year that are a condition for the start of these projects. For this reason, I ask the Minister of the Jews: What, in particular, will be responsible for the efficient use of cohesion funds for water supply projects and other environmental infrastructure projects from the current financial perspective, so that projects that already have all the documentation and even selected operators can finally be implemented? For this damage, which now arises every day, is enormous. However, the possibility of actual implementation of these projects by the end of 2015 is also questioned with each day of postponement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u213	Thank you for asking. Minister of the Jews, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u214	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Member, for the current issue, even in the light of the conclusions adopted yesterday by the Committee on European Union Affairs. But in order for the others to understand what we understand, I have to say it. Environmental cohesion has made available €545 million of European money for projects that are. This money was already divided by decisions of the municipalities in some other times, I have no fingers in between, nor do you, but it was divided with the municipalities in a way that we cannot take it away. Janša's government, as you said, is fortunately – if it were not, the money would be lost – into an overcommitment, I think, at the end of 2012, in the size of €180 million. Otherwise, this overcommitment will end differently than was probably expected at the time, because there have been "ready to go" projects – projects where municipalities have already invested money for half a billion. There were half a billion projects and the first package of overcommittee – that is, 180 million. Clearly, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is just technical, we do not issue decisions until the money is shared, we are not this competent authority, we are just reviewing and moving forward. Decisions on the allocation of money have also been issued for these €180 million. I must say that this is good information that additional funds have been provided to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment today. So that we can start already this week and hope that in the coming weeks, maybe we can sign all the remaining missing contracts even for two weeks. At this point, we have more projects than money at our disposal. Once again, the money is €545 million, for €545 million has already been issued in the past, and these decisions apply until 2013 and by 2015, we cannot take them away. It is obvious, however, that at this time, before the elections to be held this year, even on a voluntary basis, the municipalities do not wish to revoke this decision. However, there is no legal remedy because these decisions do not have the legal possibility of withdrawing. Nevertheless, there was an additional 180 million, but it cannot go into half a billion because I understand that the state cannot issue a decision until the allocation of funds is available. What are we doing right now? First of all, there are still very intensive discussions with the municipalities, in particular, we are trying to draw what projects into the next perspective. This frees up existing funds and this would allow us to conclude additional contracts under the so-called overcommittee 2 — this is from the remaining 300 million because 200 million are now resolved. That's the first thing. The other thing I have to say is that projects – more or less – are about water, drinking water supply and cleaning dirty water, which are a priority in the next perspective, which is starting now. However, the technical part of the new perspective will be known when the Partnership Agreement is signed. You know the government's plans. [[…]] [[Incomprehensible]] Somewhere in the middle of the year, so I expect new contracts to be signed by the end of the year from the new period 2014-2020. [[…]] What I do not know is that there are no known technical specifications, but this is not a matter of Slovenia, it is a matter of the European Commission, whether the applications that have been made for the period 2007-2013 are identical for the next period, or whether they will even be simplified, which is also an announcement by the European Commission. This is an open question right now. What I can say, however, is that these contracts or projects which have come to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and which we have already sent to the competent authority are such that they are already in the spirit of a new perspective. However, at this point, understand, honourable Member, that the competent authority cannot issue guarantees of funds until an agreement has been signed with the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u215	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u216	Dear Minister, what we have just heard has been being heard for the past six months. It was not just yesterday's European Union Affairs Committee. In February, there was also a committee that addressed this subject, which I am asking, yesterday was something else on the table. But it's all about the fact that there's been no decision for six months. Since August last year, when we have prepared projects of Ljubljanica Poreč without Ljubljana, where the entire Pivška valley belongs, which also represents a spare potential once in the perspective of the coast, 30 million worth a project. Since August, the building permit chosen by the operators has been extended every month, representing some €40,000 per month of additional costs. Dolenjska water supply 15 million, Drava river 30 million, Domžale – Kamnik 9 million, Suha Krajina 20 million, Kočevje – Ribnica – Sodražica 22 million, Domžale waste water treatment – Kamnik 23 million and wastewater treatment Ljubljana 48 million. These are projects with all the documentation prepared for six months that have been selected by operators for six months and that have not been answered what will happen to these projects since November of last year. I have here a letter from one of the congregations, no more communication since November. There's no more communication! It is true that another ministry is responsible for this communication, but you are a member of the government and the government is the one who has to cut it. And you, as the competent Minister for Water Supply, are the one who needs to take this initiative in the government immediately. Another circumstance that speaks to you in favour; we are at the intersection of two perspectives, this year and the next is the intersection of the present and the next financial perspective. And it is perfectly clear that if you wait for the approvals for the next perspective, the adoption of some programs and so on, all these projects will fall into the water one way or another. The damage that will come will be enormous, enormous, unnecessary. The worst part is that at the end of 2015 you will have some 200 million unutilized assets left, because the bound contracts should have 110%, 120% at the moment; not 98%, because some projects will probably fall away. And I want to know: What will you do specifically, and in what time will you resolve this?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u218	I do not know whether the decision in 2012 was correct, or whether it was possible to mislead, but once again, honourable Member, allow us to repeat the mathematics a little bit. There are 545 million Euros of European funds available, only 545 million Euros, and that is the only money we have from European cohesion for the environment, and there is no other money. The whole time we're talking about environmental money, 545 million. The 545 million, or even more — 580, since some reserves can be made here, have already been distributed since 2007 and beyond. Because it was correctly established that not all projects would simply be executed, but it was not known — but also under your government — which, since a number of congregations were waiting purely at the end of the perspective, went to an additional reserve of 180 million. It went into 180 million extra money, and the money was only 545 million, and half a billion came. If this is what happened: 545 million money is available, we are talking only about European cohesion, and ready to go projects from the overcommittee is half a billion. Then we have projects that are mostly already under way for 545 million. It is clear that this account does not come out and that it is impossible to overcommittee half a billion to cover with old cohesion. What we do is the following — conversations with the congregations are held all the time. I would like to say again that the congregations in the process simply do not want to cancel projects, and we also had meetings with all the congregations last year. The vast majority of municipalities insist on bringing their projects to an end, but there is no legal basis for them to take projects with a certain government provision, because there is simply no legal basis to go back. Or, in fact, without the fact that a significant part of the money from the municipalities can be returned, through the return of the contracts or decisions, it can be ensured in a cohesion that actually runs out of N+2 in some exception even N+3. There is no other basis, so the only money available is the new cohesion. However, a new cohesion cannot be negotiated until a partnership agreement is concluded. If contracts are now concluded, this means that contracts are being concluded in a way that intends to provide full money from the Slovenian integrated budget, which I think that all of us in the National Assembly know that there is no reserve in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u220	If a debate is really needed in the National Assembly, this is a matter – and this is a debate as soon as possible. If it could already be invoked in the context of this meeting under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure or any other provision, it would be necessary to do so as soon as possible. However, I propose that we do so at the next meeting, which will be held in a few weeks, before the end of April. Because otherwise, my view is that it will happen – projects that are ready to be implemented, which already have all the permits, chosen operators, will not be implemented. On the other hand, it will remain money for projects which have these resources linked to certain decisions and are not prepared to be implemented. At the end of your perspective, you will have the rest of the money to explain that projects have not been implemented for 100 or 200 million euros for these reasons. That'll be impossible to explain. And for six months no decision has been made. It's about water supply, it's not about anything, water is strategic raw material. Alone, Minister, speak of how important it is not to be privatized. What will happen if these projects are not implemented with European money? The mayors will look for other options, they'll look for concessionaires. Through concessions that will ensure the implementation of these clean drinking water projects, water will be privatised. That's what's gonna happen. This will be a consequence of your policy. Privatisation of pure drinking water, which we know will be more important than oil in 50 years from now. And we can't afford that. I would like you to come to the National Assembly with a list of all these projects in order to accurately show the value of these projects, the timetable when the operators were selected, when the building permits were obtained, how much money can be redistributed from other non-operational projects; and how much can be allocated from the following financial perspective for the second phase of the implementation of these projects. As a result of this half-year delay, most of these projects will need to be implemented in 2016 and will not be implemented until the end of 2015 because they are too demanding to be implemented in a year and a half. But the damage that arises every day of this delay is enormous. And what can ultimately result as the worst result of this delay is what I mentioned at the beginning. Privatisation of clean drinking water, since the municipalities that have the projects prepared will be obliged to carry out these projects in one way or another. Yesterday the article was published in the Slovenian News. Beer water is already dangerous for children. This was published yesterday, beer water is already dangerous for children. This is one of these projects, which provides clean drinking water, which is also strategically important, not only for the area where this water will be provided, but also as a potential reserve potential for the water supply of the coastal area. In view of the fact that some of the other projects originally envisaged were in some way possessed to provide a potential secondary source. I suggest we hold a debate on this issue and prepare concrete activities as to how you will [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u221	Thank you very much for the proposal to be decided in the context of the votes. The next is Mr Jožef Jerovšek, and the question is for the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In November you submitted for adoption the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture. In this resolution, you then introduced and named 2 new minorities in Chapter 15, under the heading Higher Level of Regional Cultural Heritage of Minorities. You have introduced a Serb and German minority, although it is a Serbian and German ethical group, such as the right designation under the Constitution. I had warned at the time that it was dangerous forerunners of minorities, so I tabled an amendment to prevent this unconstitutionality. Following the introduction of a resolution on the recognition of the German minority on the Committee of the Austrian Parliament immediately after the Crimean Events, which the neighbouring country has taken advantage of, this insistence on 2 new minorities has become a way of dealing with possible serious consequences. In doing so, information is heard that such conduct was not accidental or the result of ignorance, but that individuals should do so with a purpose, not in harmony with the moves of others who are now crystallizing. We are wondering about the extent of this coherence. Since these ethnic groups live scattered throughout the territory of Slovenia, the consequences can be extensive. I myself advocate for as much support for ethnic groups as possible, but I am aware of the material consequences of a status increase in ethnic groups in minorities. I'm asking: Have you examined the background of the non-constitutional status record in the resolution? How will you respond to the constitutional and other consequences and uncertainties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Dr. Grills, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u224	Dear Mr Jerovšek, President-in-Office, fellow Members! Thank you so much for asking. Today, there has been a lot of talk about the fact that the questions of the Members should be clear and unequivocal. Unfortunately, your question is not. It is true that the Ministry of Culture has been caring for the cultural needs of various social minorities for a number of years, whose access to cultural goods has been hampered for such or other reasons. These include persons with disabilities, constitutionally recognized national communities and Roma, including members of other ethnic communities living in Slovenia. Few German-speaking ethnic groups are among them. Therefore, in the resolution on the National Programme for Culture, we have also paid attention to them, and earlier in the Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy. The first confusion that comes from your question, Mr Jerovšek, refers to the term 'German minority'. You will not find this term in the national programme. We consistently use the term 'German-speaking ethnic group', which is derived from the Agreement on Cooperation in Culture, Education and Science between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Austria. Such a dictatorship cannot therefore be preluded to the recognition of this ethnic group as a national minority. So you're talking about a pretzel that's not there. It is true, however, that since 2008, the Ministry of Culture has published a specific target call for German-speaking ethnic groups to support between 8 and 15 such projects per year and to earmark funds that have not exceeded 22,000 euros in the last 2 years. So much is the state's concern for this segment of cultural operators. Mr Jerovšek, already in the debate on the National Programme for Culture, you have misunderstood the title of the second objective in the chapter of Human Rights and the protection of cultural diversity. That is why you were the only one in the entire Assembly who voted against the National Programme for Culture. To this end, we are talking about the cultural integration of minorities, the objective being the Higher Level of Regional and Regional Cultural Integration of Minorities. This objective includes 5 very different measures. The first concerns support for cultural diversity and the heritage of German-speaking ethnic groups in the territory of Slovenia, with particular attention being paid to one of these groups – Kočevar, the elderly, who, as you know, are before extinction. The following measure concerns support for the expressed cultural needs of members of the national communities as defined in the Declaration of the Republic of Slovenia on the Situation of National Communities of Members of the Peoples of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. And then there are 3 measures relating to raising the employability of vulnerable social groups in the field of culture and supporting their social inclusion as an element of quality integration. Another measure, raising intercultural human resources competence in public infrastructure and public administration in the national mixed area and training of cultural workers to help people with different disabilities. To this end, we are talking about the cultural integration of minorities, so let me explain to you once again that we are using the term minority as a generic and sociological term here. At no time are we talking about the German minority. This generic concept covers very different collective entities, not to mention their formal legal status. This is not what the National Programme for Culture can do and it has not done at any point. However, on the measures taken to achieve this objective, these entities are named in accordance with the status they have in our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u225	Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you surprise me and I am disappointed that you mark serious state-of-the-art behaviour a vague and unequivocal question. It's a bad idea and you're saying that there's no such diction and there's no prelude in the text. I am aware that our parliamentary group has put an amendment to such a dictatorship — a changeling one. Of course, I am proud now that an account has been issued in the form of a resolution in the Vienna Parliament that I did so at the time. But I'm surprised the Slovenian minister is moving. I tell you which side this forerunner and this dictatorship is talking about the integration of minorities, and the following speaks correctly of ethical groups. The title, however, highlights "minority – minority". I'm still curious, Minister. Is it true that the benefit of mentioning both ethnic groups as minorities in this text was provided by very influential individuals within Positive Slovenia, a party to which you belong? Are you aware of the consequences of the scattered presence of members of these ethnic groups? Material consequences if we get the same status as indigenous minorities. I appeal that you do not knowingly diminish the seriousness of this issue and this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u227	Thank you very much for the additional question. Here you go, Mr. Grills.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u228	Dear Member, 2 agreements on cooperation in culture, education and science are signed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Austria. The first of April 30, 2001. On the basis of commitments and agreements, a work programme on cooperation in culture, education and science has been established between the two governments, which has been the legal basis for the implementation of the programme, which has been implemented by the Ministry of Culture for many years. The third work programme on cooperation in culture, education and science between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Austria was signed 17. 12. 2013 This is the only legal basis we follow. There can be no other. No account came to me, and there's no basis for it to come. The forms you are talking about cannot be interpreted in any way in the direction of any predecessor for the recognition of a German ethical group or any other minority group for a national minority. Let me remind you, Mr Jerovšek, that the right of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to use their culture, language and writing and to express their nationality is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We have also committed ourselves to this by ratifying a number of human rights conventions. All of this, the adoption of the Constitution, the ratification of the international conventions I have mentioned, as well as the conclusion of cooperation agreements with neighbouring countries, where, among other things, we have also taken over the concerns you are reading from us, is also said by you, honourable Members. The ministry I run will also respect these commitments. That is why the Ministry of Culture also operates a service for cultural diversity and human rights. A service that has not only a public administration, but a great reputation in the professional public concerned with the realization of the cultural rights of ethical communities and other vulnerable groups. The concern for the right to cultural expression of this small and endangered ethical group, which we are talking about today, is by no means based on decisions of the Austrian Parliament. It comes from our own commitments and from the belief that cultural diversity enriches and strengthens us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Because the Minister pretends or does not really understand what cultural agreements are, what are constitutional rights, which I absolutely support and respect and must be respected that there will be no misunderstanding. I know what cultural agreements are in the ratifications that I participated in and at the time of adoption, but this is a two-bit issue. A completely different question, and this is also a question of diversification, why this has occurred in the national programme of culture. Since you obviously do not want to or do not want to be aware of what this is about, it is very serious questions of state-of-the-art, and the conduct of the state-of-the-art, not to use any other term, it is necessary to hold a serious debate on this subject, a broad debate on the basis of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u231	Thank you very much. This will be decided in the context of the votes. Mr Zvonko Lah is next. She has a question for the Secretary-General of the Government, Mrs Tanjo Sharabon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Secretary-General, distinguished ministers! Unfortunately, Mr. Jewn has left the hall. I hope he comes back because the question concerns him in part. I wanted to ask the Minister for the Economy, and in the meantime the responsibility for drawing on European funds has come to the government. The Secretary of State responsible for this has also moved from the former Ministry. I will therefore raise the question of drawing, in particular from projects in the field of environmental protection, the operational programme, the development of environmental and transport infrastructure. Prior to that time, counterpart Cernač asked Minister Židan about the drawdown of these funds and the implementation of projects in the set of overcommittees. This is about 200 million projects that are ready, have selected contractors and for which there is no money, although these projects have been promised to be implemented. As Minister Židan said earlier, there are 540 million funds for these projects and then there are additional overcommittee 180 million, for which the funds are also guaranteed, and there are 200 million remaining from the second overcommitment. A new financial perspective has already begun this year, where 250 million are earmarked for such projects. The problem is that most of these projects – which have already received decisions in 2009 and do not yet have a signed co-financing agreement, although projects are already being implemented, which is a major problem – will not be implemented by the end of November 2015 in order to draw European funding from this financial perspective. These projects may continue in 2016, but municipalities with their own resources, which they do not have. However, if these projects are not completed by the end of 2016, the municipalities must reimburse all European funds spent until then, with interest. And that's the problem. I believe that a new financial perspective should be included in the performance phase, as far as possible according to our information, but the ministry, the former and the government services must engage in Brussels to get this done. That's why I'm asking you: Are the activities in this direction to be phased into implementation to avoid the return of European funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs. Charabon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u234	Thank you so much for asking. The criteria on the basis of which the President of the National Assembly decides whether a particular question of a Member State fulfils the business condition, competence, otherwise I do not know. As Secretary-General, I reiterate that I can only answer those Members' questions relating to the scope of operation of the General Secretariat of the Government and the services under the authority of the Secretary-General of the Government. For the work areas of development and European cohesion policy, as you have rightly stated, a Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy has been set up, which is chaired by the President of the Government and not by the Secretary-General of the Government. The General Secretariat of the Government cannot explain the content of these materials from other sources, as this would interfere with the competence of the ministries and government services. However, if the Member insists that I answer the question myself, I will continue to do so as best I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u235	Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u236	I guess I'm out of luck. Once before, the minister of the Jews said, "I won't answer," because I thought that was a typical question for him. Then I put a question about the cadastral income to Minister Cuffer, and I realized that there was a lot he didn't know about this material, and he quickly answered me. I'm out of luck today. I wanted to ask the Minister of Economy a question because it is more pressing for him because it is important economic things. Now I don't know. You yourself have been assigned to answer this or that question, although I know it is difficult to get in and answer in this short time. It would probably be more appropriate if she were a secretary of state who had already done so at the previous ministry. I'd still like an answer. I hope that if you don't answer, you can at least move forward so that something in this area can be done. In fact, we have projects that are very important, which are ready, where many of the costs have already been spent on preparing these projects. Contractors shall have bank guarantees to extend. It was promised how the contracts would be made at any time and it would start to work, and none of that. And then we find out that there's no money at all and that there's no room for this money. Not even in this financial perspective until 2020. What do we do now? I think there's going to be a lot of economic damage. If this 200 million goes into realisation, how many construction workers will have a job, how much VAT will be paid back, how much will be contributed to the workers. I think the coin of this money will then return directly to the budget. It would therefore make sense to make an effort, it is possible to go into the construction phase, thus avoiding that those projects that will be questionable will not be completed, carried out in a new financial perspective and begin to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I understand you want an answer. When the questions are addressed, if they are not addressed to the right address, it would be appropriate for the President of the National Assembly who decides to do so to redistribute these questions appropriately to the one who will answer them. I hope that this agreement between the President of the National Assembly and the Government will be reached and that there will be no embarrassment in the future. But you have a word for a short answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u238	The Prime Minister of the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy informed me that the managing authority has prepared a methodology for the distribution of individual phase projects and has already coordinated it with the European Commission. The answer to the question is therefore that, in principle, it is possible to divide cohesion projects into stages, while the key is that each phase is prepared in accordance with a further set and validated methodology by the European Commission. Among other things, it is crucial that each phase represents a functionally completed whole. Whether the option is actually feasible in a specific case depends on the resources available for the 2007-2013 perspective at all. In view of the above, I therefore propose that you address this question in writing to the Government, which will also give you a more detailed answer to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u239	Good. Mr Lah, there is still a procedural proposal, I presume.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u240	I am pleased with this answer, and obviously it has also begun to work in the right direction, not just on the committees. When we discussed this subject on a few committees, we did not feel this willingness to work in the direction of the ministries, which are both the intermediate body and the responsible body, in order to try to resolve the matter, but rather in the direction of 'can't'. I am therefore pleased that this response is being made in this direction, because we have also received information from the European Commission that this is possible. It is true, however, that it is technically very difficult to divide large projects into completeities and divide them into phases. There's a lot of technical work here, and the congregations have to agree to that. Since there are quite a few questions, such as Mr Černač, I think there will be some further questions on this subject, I would suggest that the debate be held here, in order to bring these ministries together, according to the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly. Thus, the Ministry of Finance, which must provide its own share, must also provide a share of the European funds for implementation, as this is later recovered. And if there are no funds, then this time between payment to the contractor and recovery from Brussels should be reduced as quickly as possible in order to ensure that these funds are reimbursed as soon as possible. I would suggest that a debate be held in the National Assembly. I think it is very important, because some municipalities that are implementing these major projects have received approval only last year and there are more than 10 million projects. The municipalities are afraid they won't be able to finish them. And it is also a great fear that these European funds will have to be repaid with interest. I think it is also of great economic importance that these additional projects be included. We also hear calls from the media, such as hydraulic improvements in water supply in Dolenjska, where the county says how long will 60 thousand people have to boil drinking water. The project is ready, weighs more than 20 million, and I think it would be a major damage, including economic damage, because economic operators are also involved in this water supply. This effort should be made and all these projects ready to be put into effect as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Lah, I agree that the problem you're opening up and they're already in front of you is very pressing. I would like to remind you that we are voting or voting on the response of the Minister, which is being held or is not being debated. But since we didn't actually get the answer, we're in some kind of trouble. I believe that the Government and the President of the National Assembly will continue to mean this. However, if I summarise you, you want the Secretary-General's response to be discussed. We will take a decision on this at the vote. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. The General Secretariat of the Government has certain areas of work defined. Among other things, he is responsible for the organisation and functioning of government services, whose chairman is the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is newly responsible for cohesion policy and for the Owl. And in the framework of these tasks, he is also doing some professional work. I think that's how ignoring oz is. the play of the regime followed by the definition of work areas, irresponsibly, unfairly to members of the National Assembly. The Secretary-General of the Government must, in accordance with this definition and with these divisions of tasks, also carry out certain professional tasks in these areas. For example, information and documentation activities. And if certain matters are transferred within the framework of the government service for which the General Secretariat of the Government is responsible, the President shall be the Secretary-General of the Government, but the Secretary-General of the Government shall respond accordingly. And I think it's completely irresponsible and even unfair for us to talk here to those who are asking questions and expecting answers, to someone who doesn't want to answer and is pleading rude. I think it's time the government prepared these things. This is not the first time that a minister or a representative of the government has made an excuse for rudeness. We already had a case where the minister responsible for the grey economy didn't want to answer about the grey economy, if that's the area of finance, but it was. And I think these things need to be settled. And those who come on behalf of the Government to answer the parliamentary questions, these are ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government, but you must prepare the appropriate answers. It's not good for people, either, that the Secretary-General of the Government says he's not responsible for this, that he doesn't know anything about it, that I don't know what. But when it's payday, that's where he knows where the date and signature are written that he picked up the payroll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The Secretary-General shall not be able to respond to a procedural proposal. On your proposal, however, I agree that it is very embarrassing for government representatives to define themselves as not responsible for the answers to the questions put by the President of the National Assembly on the agenda. Let's keep asking questions. Mr. Joseph Horvath is next. The Minister of Finance is supposed to answer your question, but he is absent, and Mr Sam Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure and Space. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Ministers, Secretary-General of the Government, especially Minister of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Samo Omerzel. In the Real Estate Tax Act adopted by the National Assembly in the early morning of 15. 11. In 2013, firefighting organisations which have such status under the Firearms Act are not exempt from the payment of the property tax they hold. It was perfectly logical to expect firefighting organisations to receive information on the real estate tax calculations, later to receive decisions and, of course, bills. Information calculations have already been sent to firefighters' organisations and firefighters are on their feet. In the head of these informational calculations, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, which you, the Honourable Minister, specialises. We wanted the firefighting organisations to be exempt from property taxes and that the exemption in the Real Estate Tax Act would be clearly recorded. Tax legislation — we are a technique — must be clear, especially the exemptions must be very clear. Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats We tabled on 23 January this year a proposal for a law supplementing the property tax law, which was rejected by the coalition on the Committee on Finance, although it was defended by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly against a negative government position, and the competent commission of the State Council supported our law from 10 to 0. Mr. Minister, given that some government representatives, except for the President of the Government and ministers, have recently stated that firefighting organisations will not pay taxes on their properties, despite the fact that they have already received tax returns, I ask you: How will you implement the exemption if there is indeed an exemption when there is no legal basis in the Real Estate Tax Act for the exemption of property taxes owned by firefighting organisations? I ask you for really precise explanations of the procedure; you understand – the algorithm: What will be the algorithm and the clear legal basis? It would also be right, Mr Minister, to apologize to the firefighters — that is, to apologize to the Government, not personally — if there was a mistake, of course, but the information calculations were sent to the firefighters because that is what the law says. I'm asking nicely for your explanations. I expect an oral response from Minister Chufer at the next meeting, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We are now accepting this proposal of yours. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u246	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Member, Mr Horvath, thank you very much for the question. In February 2014, the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia sent informational calculations to all owners of real estate and taxpayers and, in addition to all data on real estate, there is a general market value, an informational calculation of the tax to be paid on this and a tax rate. And it is true that all those who own these properties received these informational calculations for one simple reason. When preparing this informational calculation, the basis for this is the real estate register, which lists all the owners of these properties. The basis that we are talking about, namely the exemption from the property tax for firefighters, is in the Real Estate Tax Act, which will quote the second paragraph of Article 8, which states: "For property owned by humanitarian organisations, the exemption shall be recognised by the tax authority at the expense of the tax on the basis of the examination of humanitarian organisations at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry responsible for Social Protection." So if we look at the algorithm that you were talking about: The Geodetic Authority makes informative calculations and sends a notice about all the property data. On the basis of data where this information calculation is prepared, it is not possible to identify whether or not the owner of this property is a humanitarian organisation. Later, the Ministry responsible for the finance is the one which issues the tax assessment decision, and on this basis also comes the exemption from the tax on humanitarian organisations. Once the decision has been sent, a decision will be sent to the firefighters, in which case the payment of the property tax will be exempt.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u248	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your explanations. But I want us to step forward together and both of us to say, you know, to the government, I'm already to the National Assembly that firefighters' organisations don't have the status of a humanitarian organization. That's the problem. Search the website, find an overview of humanitarian organisations, two of them, one led by the Ministry of Health, the other led by the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. You can't find any firefighters in this report, even though the Fireworks of Slovenia, as a company, have a decision of 9. 8. 2010 from the Ministry of Health, but it is not found in this view. That's the problem! And I yell it out and yell at the boards, in the National Assembly, and no one hears me! Please, you are an engineer, at least you can hear me and tell the Government that it is actually done on the principle of copy-lease-lease, copy-paste, Article 8, paragraph 4, which states that humanitarian organisations that have such status under the Humanitarian Organizations Act are exempt, and we add that our New Slovenia law also exempt firefighters organisations that have such status – that is, firefighters – under the Firearms Act. Today, at this point, no firefighter's organisation, Mr Minister Samo Omerzel, has the status of a humanitarian organisation; and that is the problem. So today, if the government, or the ministry, or Durs, or anyone who wrote the decisions, will not be excused by a firefighter's organization. Please, you guys take a deep breath. You're my only asset now. Take a deep breath on this. We will re-introduce what I predict, and when it is in government, when you adopt an opinion, I will be careful how you discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Once again, Minister Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u250	Thank you very much for this warning. As Minister responsible for this part where we were in charge of IT as the Geodetic Authority, I can explain and comment on the algorithm why there is no exemption for firefighters in this part; therefore, for a simple reason, because the real estate register does not specify who the humanitarian organisation is, or any other type of organisation as the user. However, what I can promise you is that, of course, I will pass on to the Minister responsible for this law our debate today, a reminder of the problem and, given what has been promised to the public, I am sure that the response will also be appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The next is Dr. Vinko Gorenak, a question for the Secretary-General of the Government, Mrs Tanjo Sharabon, and the Minister of Finance, who is absent, Dr. Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary-General, I used to listen to the transmission when you answered the question, I don't know any more who referred to the Owl, but a little earlier to Mr Lach, who had a similar question to mine. I must say, I couldn't believe what you said! Look, the marriage is perfectly clear. I do not think the President of the National Assembly has made a mistake, that is, the law says, "in relation to the heads of government services" – what these services are, from Sova to this new service – "has the same powers as the secretary-general as the minister". This is written in the law and this is perfectly clear. Now, I don't know whether you know it or not, I suggest you look at it if you don't know it; so you have a responsibility to answer all parliamentary questions concerning government services in any case, because then, if the interpretation were as you ask it, for some government services, you would never be able to ask an oral question. That's not true. So, you're the minister in relation to government services, that's what the law says. Therefore, in this context, I am asking you a very clear question, which is divided into two parts; one part is for you, and one part is for the Minister of Finance, who is not here today. This is all the funds Mr Lah has been talking about, and I will not repeat this work, but I will ask the question concerning the specific project, namely the supply of drinking water in the Sotle river. In fact, that was where it went — for what? Look. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is already from cohesion funds 29. 11. 2012 – I stress 2012, this almost two years ago – issued a co-financing decision of 9 million 800 000. However, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment issued Decision 9. Seven. 2013 amounting to 1 million 700. Today is March – nothing is done on this topic by the government. In short, there is no funding, but the work is running because the work has to be completed by September or by the end of this year, otherwise this funding will not be possible. I also ask you in the context of the meetings of the Committee on European Affairs and ask you in the context of today's Government Decision: What did you take today? Can we say that this project will be funded? Will the relevant conclusions be issued, in particular in the light of the conclusions of the Government that you have adopted today? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u253	Thank you. Mrs. Charabon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u254	Once again, I can point out that the criteria on which the President determines whether a particular issue falls within the competence of a certain source or service are not known. But I know my powers, and I know that the question raised does not fall within my jurisdiction. Let me say that there are two types of government services, namely government services under the authority of the President of the Government. These are the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Service, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the Office for Nationality and the Office of the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy. A second type of government service falls under the authority of the General Secretariat of the Government. This is the Communications Office, the Protocol of the Republic of Slovenia and the Office for the Protection of Secret Data. I can therefore clarify once again that it is clear from the application of the oral question of the Member State that this is a matter for the question of matters relating to the work area of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and not to the work area of the GSV. The General Secretariat of the Government is thus unable to answer questions in this area, but if you want me to give you an answer, I will ask you a question and I can give you a brief answer to your question below.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u255	Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u256	You had three minutes to say something, and now I see you won't say anything. I reiterate: The law does not separate government services – for God's sake, read it! The law is perfectly clear: the Secretary-General has the same powers as the Minister in relation to government officials. After all, who then signs the assignments for the official travel of these officers and so on? Or is it the President of the Government? You probably sign them, the law is clear, and you have to answer, and I don't see any reason why you're avoiding it. I ask you for a concrete answer: Can the local environment, where I come from, on the basis of the information I mentioned earlier – the signatures were signed by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in 2012, were signed by the Environment and Agriculture Ministry at the end of 2013, and now in 2014 – we can count in the context of today's government conclusions that these conclusions will be signed and that the money cycle will also run? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs. Charabon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u258	The question of the question of government services under the authority of the President of the Government must, of course, be raised either by the President of the Government or by the Government as such. But as for your substantive question, I would like to give you the following answer. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already provided additional spending rights totalling € 103 million 379 000 206 for the implementation of cohesion policy projects under the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, so-called OP ROPI, at today's letter meeting to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. By this decision, the Government has provided funds for 19 projects eligible for co-financing from European cohesion funds and thus for projects referred to by the Member in the question. This ensures that the European envelope for the 2014 OP ROPI will be fully used. This will also enable the implementation of projects to be carried out by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with EU directives on waste water management.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u259	Thank you very much for your answer. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In view of these complications which have arisen in relation to the questions sent to the Secretary-General of the Government, I propose that the Rules of Procedure Commission be defined by the first paragraph of Article 240 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, which speaks of the possibility for the Secretary-General or the Secretary-General to answer the questions of the Member. In view of what its work area is more or less we know, but if we look at the organigram of the General Secretariat of the Government, we see what falls within the work area of the Secretary-General or the Secretary-General. Here we have the Cabinet of Secretary-General, we have the Sector for the preparation and implementation of government meetings, the Branch for Cooperation with the National Assembly and European and International Cooperation, the Sector for Working Bodies and Councils of the Government, the Sector for Work of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Administrative Affairs and Appointments, the Branch for Cooperation and Support of the Cabinet of the President of the Government, then we have the General Affairs Sector, the Information Sector, the Joint Internal Audit Service, the Office for Defence Preparations and Security, the Technical Affairs Sector, the Translation Sector and the General Office. I therefore propose that, on these substantive issues, the Commission should define rules of procedure for the Secretary-General to be the Secretary-General, in this mandate, but to know which substantive questions will be answered, as well as Members and Members, in what sense the Secretary-General may ask questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Dr. Vinko Gorenak still has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I don't know. I really don't need to read again. [[Incomprehensible]] . I am pleased with what you have said in substance that this project will be financed or that the matter will be glassed. In view of this, the President, that the exact same proposal has already been made by Mr Montenegro and Mr Lah, I would only like to have an answer from the side, because I also addressed the finance minister, the finance minister at the next meeting, because he is not here today. But it would be good to really clear this matter up, because I think you did the right thing, but the law is perfectly clear from this point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u263	Thank you, too. This concludes the question. We turn to the question raised by Mr Branko Kurnjek, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, mags. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Mr. Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary-General, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Mr Židan, I am sorry, but before that, fellow Member Ribič has asked a similar question to that of myself, based on what Mr Ribič has said, i.e. the chimney service. Members themselves cannot know when we are asking the question of another Member or Member asking a similar question. I will talk about a matter that has been a pressing topic for ten years, both on the part of the civil public and on the part of certain parts of the professional public. Last October we adopted the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, which also made such a change that we exported the chimney services from the list of mandatory state economic services for environmental protection. With the same novelty, we have also established that those who have concessions granted for the period after 31. 12. 2015 to essentially end these concessions. For those concessionaires whose concession would have expired before that date 31. 12. In 2015, the amendment stated that they could be extended by a decision for one year or a maximum of 31 years. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I want to know: Have you already prepared, at the Ministry, answers for those concessionaires whose concession expires before and who have already submitted an application for the extension of this concession, so that these decisions can or will be extended? In fact, if this does not happen, it may take place in a short time for certain concessionaires to find themselves in an unfair position. I would also like to ask you this: How are the preparations for the system regime followed by the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act governing chimney services taking place? I would like to ask you in the first part for your answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u265	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister of the Jews. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u266	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greeting to you, once again, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! Mr Member, I thank you for the question that this is another similar today, just a sign for our ministry, that this is a cross-cutting issue and that for a long time, when it has not been regulated and perhaps over-supervised, it has left the public further sensitised how to deal with it. As the Law on Environmental Protection changed in the National Assembly, we decided on the principle that each of us has the right to choose for himself who will perform the chimney service, but of course he must be properly qualified, which he proves by license. Two cases had to be solved. The first example is what to do if concessions last longer than 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law has resolved this in such a way that even then they will cease to apply, and since this has been done in due time, we expect that there will not be any expected business outcome in fact later, since this law has been announced two years in advance. Secondly, if individual concessions end prematurely, we do not want to go into a re-election procedure because it is not understood which is quite complicated. The law allows all concessionaires who perform and work in accordance with the law to have their concession extended to the end of the transitional period at their request, that is until 31 December 2015. Right now, I'm noticing that individual requests are coming. In the Government, which decides on these matters, we also accept extensions up to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There has been no information available to me as Minister to delay this award. However, in the event that any similar information occurs to you, perhaps the honourable Member, please immediately inform me to check whether concessions are being granted in such a way that they do not somehow lead to a void. In any case, we intend to regulate this in such a way that the public economic service will operate until then as required by law, while at the same time the full register of combustion plants will be set up to be over 400 000, which will then be the basis for implementation in some way of licensing; that is, anyone who obtains a licence or otherwise proves to be able to master this activity will be able to work on our initiative with our combustion plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u267	Thank you, too. Mr Kurnjek has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u268	Thank you, sir, for your answer. We were the initiators of the amendment of this part of the law in the Civil Gazette, and we were followed by coalition parties, supported by them, and also supported by the Ministry. However, I would like to, although we all want to deal with chimney services as soon as possible – so that matters will be settled by 13. 12. 2015 – but you must bear in mind that by 31. 12. 2015 Services must continue to operate in accordance with the law which was in force or which determines this final date. It is difficult for me to provide you with information on which concessionaires may have submitted applications for extension of the concession. I think the Ministry should have this information on it. But I'm really curious: What could happen to those who played the part but would not be extended? If you do not have this information, are they lost or do not work in time to make sure that you do not find this service in an unenviable position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u269	Thank you, too. Does the minister want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u270	Thank you, honourable Member for your questioning. Of course, at the Ministry, we have information on who requested it. According to the available data, the issue of these additional — or the additional period until the end of the transitional period — is smooth. My question was only if maybe someone had any other information to verify. But also on the basis of this initiative today, if you want, we will also draw up a written reply from you, from which it will be clear how many initiatives have already come and within what time frame we are responding to individual extensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u271	Thank you, too. Mr Kurnjek has a request to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u272	Thank you. I wouldn't have given it procedurally, but I would have confirmed what Mr Minister said he would give a written explanation. That's all I want. However, I would not like to discuss this subject, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u273	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Dejan Židan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! A few days ago, in Finance, there was a comment in connection with a government plan where the commentator spoke about romantic socialism. In order to remedy the consequences of the capture, the Government is expected to provide for the establishment of an economic company which will be owned by the State in 100 %. This is supposed to buy excess wood from damaged forests. Then they continue to wonder why the sale of wood should be handled by the state. In Slovenia they have specialised forest economies that know how to better market wood. Don't they know that? Perhaps the goal is total state aid, and the government wants to cover it up with such measures? As I understand it, the purpose of this company will be to buy wood from owners at the highest possible cost, store it and then sell it to the domestic wood industry. The latest information is that even public servants of the Institute for Forests and the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests are to be employed in this state society. This company is supposed to be established on the basis of a specific law and at the same time it is intended to regulate the prices of cutting and scrapping. Now, if that's true, I'd say it's actually romantic socialism. The real catastrophe, however, will be if you place a mortgage on the state forests for a 100 million-dollar loan, as described by the EBRD as a guarantee, because in this way a state society can only create a loss, resulting in the inability to pay the loan and thus the loss of state forests. But someone might want to privatize the state's forests cheaply. They have not done anything like this before because they would destroy the private sector buying wood from forests. What happens when the country withdraws? Then who's gonna buy the wood? Certainly, the state certainly has no better commercialists than the private sector. Before such a company is set up, it will take at least 3 to 4 months, this is summer, and the deadline for the broken skulls is 15. 5. The fact is, we don't have a wood industry at home that can process this wood in real time. Most of them will go for wood for firewood and wood panels and cellulose. The only interesting thing is that there are no more than 800,000 cubic metres of wood in Austria, which poses no problems. The problem is to sell pine, which the state firm probably won't be able to do. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: Is it true that a new state company is being set up to buy timber from private forests after the acorn that is to be financed by a loan to be made under the mortgage of state forests? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u275	Thank you, too. I'm giving the word "magic." Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u276	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, too, honourable Member, for the current question, and I am also pleased to be able to provide you with some more accurate information than can be read anywhere. You probably also know that when the coalition entered into a new coalition agreement, it also decided to change the governance of the state forest in such a way that management in the future takes over not more concessionaires, because you know that on all political sides, including yours, there have been a lot of perceptions, but that management is carried out by a single company. I don't know if it's romantic socialism or not, but it's a system they have in most countries where I don't think they cultivate romantic socialism. Finally, in 1996, a neighbouring country, where they speak German, went because they found themselves in a similar predicament and founded a special law also with an economic company operating the public forest, because they found that it could be easier to follow through on this, a country expected to have an impact such as the expected profit and must go back into the forest. Some others, including our exemplary countries, have similar arrangements. For example, this is Finland; an interesting case is Baden-WÆrtenberg, Bavaria, Switzerland and so on. But they also have some other countries, such as in the neighbouring country, these are Croatian forests. In fact, as you've found, the acorn itself is causing more wood, not just in the first few months, but 31 percent of the wood of the igures will be 31 percent, of these strong 7 million cubicles and something. This wood is even more, and this surplus will be coming for quite some time because it is expected that there will be major or serious problems in the market. The first problems were immediately detected when the acorns occurred, when some large foreign buyers began to cancel the contracts with Slovenian forest owners who supplied them with wood, then the state announced that it would not let people down, and then the situation calmed down. However, I must say that the country has basically two possibilities to intervene, both in accordance with European legislation, that is what I would like to say. The first option is to prescribe a minimum price for a period of 6 plus 6 months, which is in accordance with European legislation, but this option is, in fact, extremely rarely used, because when a state prescribes a minimum price – what happens? The minimum price is, of course, higher than the expected price, but if the market breaks down, it is lower than the current lower price. If a minimum price is fixed by a regulation, the market shall be automatically released to a lower level. However, in case a State prescribes a minimum price, which is higher than at some point it can buy on the market, and legally halt all legal traffic – then what happens in black – is another thing. However, in similar cases, when it comes to natural disasters, emergency situations, and the needs of forest cleaning, state-owned companies that care about the state forest may enter in this way. This has also happened in the event of a crisis in some other countries, and this is also the idea of this law that is now emerging. Since I still have so much time, let me tell you how the law is formed. A comparable legal regime has been reviewed, for example in Austria, Finland, and in some other Western European countries, where they do not have – what did you say? – friendly socialism. As far as I know, they don't have it, and at the same time, he started to draw up a business plan that will be completed this week. At the same time, on the basis of the review of external legislation, there is a draft Slovenian law in an expert group that will be presented to the coalition next week and will then be taken, I think, political decisions within the coalition. What will be the guarantee for possible credit, how much credit we need, of course, depends on the business plan that is now ending, whether it takes 10 million, 20 or a little more, will be known at the end of the week, but it is true that this loan will require some kind of counter-guarantee. There are at least three counter guarantees. One guarantee, for example, as some countries have gone, is that an adequate share of the forest, when they needed money to rent credit, was transferred to a company owned by a hundred percent state ownership and also by a ban on sales. The alternative is to guarantee through the National Assembly, and the third option is to benefit from the guarantee potential through some other sources already approved by the State. At the moment, there is no decision, which of these three options – I do not have any preference either, I believe that the option that is most favourable for the country will be decided. What's the timer? The time frame for the establishment of this company is such that in the next week we have coalition talks, each coalition has first been held, talks within itself and after we have obtained agreement, and we are going with this draft law to an interdepartmental interview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u277	Thank you. Mr Hrovat has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u278	Thank you. Dear Minister, that means that if I understand correctly, you will be buying from state forests and not from private, private owners. That's what you said at the beginning. But the fact is, we need to react as soon as possible. However, the very important facts are that the prices of cutting and making regulation very difficult to market are very difficult. In Slovenia there is certainly not enough performers for this weight of wood. This moment is not even enough transport capacity for transport, not trucks, not wagons, and the recovery has not actually started at all. Although some are already cleaning up their forests, I think that is only 10%. Well, the main one is still waiting. But that's what you do on the easy terrain. What's very deep is quite a problem. More than 90 percent of rehabilitation has not even begun in private forests. Now, take action. One measure is what you said before, but I think that the first measure of each normal country would be to provide the means and organisation of opening forest roads, which we have not yet succeeded in, because some of the forest roads are still closed because of the fallen trees. It would also be possible to redistribute possible funds for the most urgent subsidies to the affected owners, and so far to the MKO, it seems to me that you have not even figured out what the most urgent measures would be to establish recovery, let alone to redistribute funds. I don't think this has even begun to happen. Remember in 2008, Kamnik had a windshield, and then there were subsidies, the real payments of the subsidies were made within two months. It's been two months now. There's no real action. I would also like to ask you for this additional answer. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u279	Thank you. I hope the Minister understands the context of the additional question. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u280	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, honourable Member, for these interesting sub-questions as well. The purchase of wood is for wood in damaged parts of Slovenia. That's understandable. There is generally a similar relationship, as is generally the case in the Slovenian forest. About 20 percent of the forest is state-owned, something small municipal, everything else is privately owned. However, since I said management, this is a management and management company of the state forest that will take over management under the coalition contract once the concessions have expired, this is in 2016. The wood is bought wherever the market surpluses are — as a secondary buyer. How are prices actually shaped? This model will also work by showing up as a backup buyer. That's what you need to know. First, some wood is used by those who are artists, some have processing, some also store it. I have to say, there's a lot of market connections left. This is also how they report at this point, although for individual ranges prices have fallen at this point, and for some they have not. Here you see quite correctly that this market and the country is then trying to provide through this company or will try to provide it as a secondary buyer. What the state has done in the first few weeks, perhaps you, the honourable Member, have noticed, have had a focused action in two areas. The first area was the opening of forest roads — either way, six thousand and a few miles away. An important part of this was opened with the help of a local community – which is primarily responsible – owners, civil protection, firefighters and the like, but not all of it is open, that is true. And the other thing that was like a focus of action was the watercourses. We also had 51 teams outside to avoid the flood. That's what we've been doing through the Ministry. What about the provision of funds? The funds cannot be provided by the Ministry by redistribution because the Ministry does not have the resources. The funds are redistributed through the budget reserve, which is 15 million – except for some of the money that is intended for forest rehabilitation, if you think so. Clearly, this money will go to the areas of Slovenia where the injuries were for the purposes, which will be the most urgent. How will the recovery take place itself? Based on the recovery plan. But not only does the ministry work the recovery plan, but the body, in fact our national authority, is the Forest Office, which will be made in the first week or first two weeks of April. It's just some procedure. The only information I'd like to give is this. Tomorrow's government's damage assessment will be official this time, because the data will be pooled both from AJDE, this is from the state system managed by the Republic of Slovenia's Department of Protection and Rescue, and an additional inventory of the damage assessed by the Special Commission, which is damage to energy and transport infrastructure. This is the basis for the distribution of these 15 million, as far as the Members themselves are concerned, over [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u281	Thank you, too, Minister. This concludes the question. Mr Jože Tanko will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is absent today. You have the floor, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u282	Thank you so much for saying that. In just one year, the government of Alenka Bratušek owed us €8 billion, i.e. one state budget, which is the world record. No government in the world has ever done that in such a short time. And in a mockery of everyone, this Government considers as a special success that it can still be indebted, and this government task is for the Government of Creation. The Minister is re-assessing funds through European capitals and is again looking for resources because he cannot focus on this true path of sustainable public finances. Most of the money was invested by the Government in a bank hole that was created to the greatest extent due to poor, illegal, clientelistic or corrupt conduct and because of the agreed direction of funds, including for failed political projects, whether the money went to hidden accounts. As we hear, more money will be needed for the banks, only for Bank Celje's new 160 million euros, and one of the supervisors was the current Minister of Finance. Nevertheless, more than half of the bad claims remain in banks, we can say privileged claims that have not been transferred to a bad bank. And yet nothing happened inside this bank elite. They're all left in their seats. Practically no money, however, is allocated by the Government for state investment, for the rehabilitation of the most dangerous sections, for the removal of bottlenecks, for the reconstruction of the railway network. Nor is money allocated for the general well-being of citizens or for investments in important objects of social standard, such as school facilities, utilities, blocking the use of European funds. In health care, the situation is even more tragic, as neither technological nor human nor spatial capacity can be assured by blocking the employment of doctors and other staff. When there's always enough money on one side for banks, the government can't, or can't, or won't fund a few doctors at the office. And [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Severely injured or severely ill for no reason suffer for hours or hours. [[…]] The government doesn't decide. I'm asking: What are the priorities for the allocation of budgetary resources if, on the one hand, the Government gives needlessly billions of funds or guarantees to fully private investments or private banks, and on the other hand, the Government does not carry out its tasks in the fields of health, education and elsewhere, because it cannot or does not want to provide a few million funds for the emergency and employment of new doctors? I want an oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u283	Thank you. On the basis of your statement that you want an oral answer, I will place the question at today's meeting at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Mrs Sonja Ramšak will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space for Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The consequences of the financial, economic and social crisis have particularly affected some regions, notably Koroška, Savinja-Shaleška, Zasavsko, Podnjesavsko and Belokranj region. Therefore, the third development axis project for these areas is not only a matter of building the infrastructure and connectivity of the country, but is an important condition for the comprehensive development of these areas and the creation of new jobs. As long as this road does not exist, these regions will certainly be less attractive to foreign investment, some companies are also thinking about moving their production, and the quality of life in these regions is also lower. These regions are already staggering, especially Koroška, Zasavska and Belokranska, and if they do not open outside, they will remain far behind. Young people in these regions have virtually no perspective, do not see their opportunities, because there are no jobs or housing. The third development axis would therefore be an extremely important opportunity to revive economic activity. This development axis is already defined in the 2004 spatial development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and represents an important inter-regional link and a link mainly to the Austrian and Croatian transport network. For the first time, it was designated as the main inter-regional corridor in the Slovenian Regional Spatial Plan in 1974. Dear Minister: When will the Ministry start implementing the Third Development Axis project – I mean the north and south? When will adequate population mobility be ensured? When will the bottlenecks be removed? When will the exploitation of developmental and other potentials be enabled? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u285	Thank you for asking. Mr. Omerzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u286	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Madam Member, thank you very much for the question. By the time I entered or ran for minister, one of the most important of these was the third development axis, and I must admit that today I am also looking at the third development axis issue completely in a different light than I was at that time. And perhaps something would have been wrong if I hadn't looked at this project a little differently after one year. Above all, it seems fair and fair to everyone that when we talk about the third development axis, we clearly say that the third development axis is divided into several stages; and it is also because we are dealing with different problems, with different activities. In view of the full division of the third development axis, we have also made it very clear, at various stages, where we are carrying out some of the activities in which we are – of course, all that is within our ministry's competence. I am also happy to send you the material in writing on the topic of the third development axis, because of easier understanding and greater scrutiny, we have also given the Ministry a graphic review of the third development axis with comments and with a nice color scale to see exactly what the stage of the third development axis is, so I am happy to send it to you. However, if we went to look specifically at the individual sections where we are, we would go from the north to the south according to the activities. So, if we're looking at the Otis Summit to the small border crossing Holmec was here in 2012, specifically 25. 10. the Government's conclusion on the retirement of this work, mainly because of the problem of the non-economic nature of this option. Here is a proposal for a new study and a further decision on how to dimensionalize the work at the beginning until later. At the section Slovenj Gradec south to Dravograd with bypasses was also 25. Ten. 2012 Decision of the Government on the retirement of this work. There is also a proposal for a new transport study. The main problem in this section is the opposition of the local communities in the light of the studies of variants prepared in the past prior to the decision of the Government of 25. Ten. 2012. At the section Velenje south to Slovenia Gradec south, the State Spatial Plan Regulation was adopted on 29 August 2013. The investor in DNN is Dars. Then the AC A2 connection at the base to Velenje; here we have the addition of the study variants and the production of a feasibility variant proposal. The key problem that we have in this area is particularly related to interference with nature and to dealing with alternative habitats and environmental protection. In the middle part, so between highway A1 Celje-Lopata and motorway A2 towards New Town, we also have in the phase of complementing the study variants, that is to say making new proposals. Here we are also faced with the non-economicity of the first option, where we actually need to look again at what is what is economically justified in this area. Then we go to the southern part of the third development axis, and we have the section of the A2 motorway from New Town to the Malina connection, here we have the state spatial plan of 20. 12. 2012. There were investors – one part of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the other part of the DRSC. Then we have a section of Malina to the international border crossing between Metlik and Chernobyl South. In this area, we have in the stage of preparing positions and comments on the adoption of the VAT Regulation – the State Spatial Plan. We anticipate that the State Spatial Plan will be adopted in July 2014 and then we have the final phase on the third development axis, so we are talking about the section of Montenegro south to the border transitional vineyard. In this area, however, due to the lack of financial resources and the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, this section is currently at rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u287	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramšak has a request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u288	Thank you, Minister. Not that I'm not satisfied with your answer, of course I am. I know that you have already received more questions on this subject recently, and I also understand that this is an extremely difficult area, including a configuration area, but I think we are facing a very high level of unemployment in these regions, or the collapse of companies, on the one hand, and on the other hand we have extremely successful companies, who are now having problems because of the lack of this appropriate infrastructure. If I also refer to this regional road Pirešica – Velenje, I must say that Gorenje and some other companies, where foreigners are also owners, are likely to face difficulties these days. You know that there is actually a bridge or a half-carriage being rebuilt at the Šentilj branch and that all of this also causes additional costs to the economy. I hope that the country will find the right solutions as soon as possible and that these areas, which have extraordinary potential, will also be both tourist and industrial – to make this happen as soon as possible and to provide adequate financial resources. Of course, I am aware that part of the problem lies also with local communities, and I hope that local communities will follow the interests of the economy and the population in particular, but not individual partial interests. I would really like to ask you - not to ask for a general discussion, but to deliver me this documentation that you said you had with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u289	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u290	Thank you for your word. Madam Member, I thank you for this debate and for understanding the importance of infrastructure for the economy. The fact that the economy is the user of this infrastructure is fundamental. I am sure, also in cooperation with our new Minister for the Economy, that not only will we, as resortaries for these two areas, but also at the level of the entire Government and of course the National Assembly understand the importance of investing in infrastructure. Last time we saw this in another part of the infrastructure, at this event, we saw the acorns that we had in the country this year. In fact, in some normal situations it is only conditional that we have, only at the moment when it is not available, we see what this means for the Slovenian economy. I am sure that in the event of this natural disaster that we all had in Slovenia, we were aware of the importance of infrastructure, that the Slovenian economy is functioning normally and that it can be competitive. I certainly thank you for this debate and, of course, I also hope to support our ideas and infrastructure development. Of course, aware at our ministry that this infrastructure is intended for the economy and must serve the economy and development of the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u291	Thank you, Minister, for supplementing your response. I hereby conclude this question. We turn to the question raised by Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Minister for Defence of Mr Roman Jakić, who is absent from 16.20. You have the floor, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u292	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I would say that it is quite undignified by Mr Roman Jakič, Minister for Defence, that he does not perform his work or that he is not present today in the National Assembly and does not answer the serious and important questions of Members. He prefers to take part in or visit companies in Slovenia. In short, it is an unrealistic approach to its scope of work to be carried out. This, of course, avoids unpleasant questions. I believe this is awkward for him, but this is his job, this is his job, which he has to do. When I look at the work of the current government, I can see that the government is working extremely hard; the government is working extremely hard to bring the country to ruin as quickly as possible. I can say that there is not one major measure that would reduce public spending and, on the other hand, the economy, which creates a single and full budget, firmly throws the pollen under its feet. And not only with taxes, with higher burdens, but in every way possible. I will cite one such case, and this is the case of the Ministry of Defence, which closed the Slovenian airspace twice as much as usual this year due to military aviation exercises. What does that mean? In March, the announcement of airspace for 25 days, in April for 16 days of air traffic closure, the Ministry did not submit a proposal for a closure for May. Does no one at the Ministry really wonder what the damage is to the economy? If I look at last year's statistics: there were 26,000 passengers who spent 4 million and a half in Slovenia who flew in with their own planes. This isn't just about bailing out of an airport fee, so I'm asking the minister: How much damage does the economy suffer from a marked increase in the amount of air locks due to military air exercises? I did not see the emergency situation in Slovenia. I did not see that they would be militarily threatened in order to require such a large-scale closure of space and thereby damage. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u293	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer orally at the next meeting. The next one will ask the question of the Magi. Stefan Tisel, Minister of Health of Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u294	All hailing, distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! I have a question for the Minister of Health – or if there is a new minister – because today I will not get an answer because she is absent. I will therefore also ask for an oral reply at the next meeting. In relation to the development of the health information system. A good health system is based on quality staff, says educated, trained and motivated people, adequate facilities and equipment, and a satisfactory or satisfactory flow of funds. The health information system is a great help both in the organisation of work, its quality and accessibility to services, surveys and in reducing the time from diagnosis to treatment, as well as in quality control, not least for the evaluation of work done or for the charging of services. The information system was first developed in the area of accounting and it still has the most developed Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. In health institutions, the information system has developed very fragmented and scrupulously. Even today, UKC Ljubljana – there are four information systems within a level-based system and each hospital has its own system. In recent years, the Ministry of Health has also been implementing the upgrading of information systems in the area of storage, transfer and re-transmission of imaging material. Most of the 26 hospitals in Slovenia use diagnostic equipment: X-ray, magnetic resonance, CT, ultrasound, endoscopy and all of these devices operate digitally and can be connected. The aim of the EHealth project was to establish a modern information system that will enable secure electronic integration and effective management of health and health related data and information. All health institutions and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia should be informed about the following project. The goal is that all health and other data will be collected and accessible in one place and that the doctor will be able to access these data everywhere in Slovenia. The Court of Auditors revised the effectiveness of the EHealth project and the results are devastating. The Ministry's response report is still missing, but there may be a suspicion that more money is being spent and fragmentation is increasing so that more is needed. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u295	Thank you so much for asking. Of course you will receive an answer at the next meeting. Do you want it in writing? At the next meeting, you will receive an oral response. Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mr Samo Bevk, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Just a year ago, Mr Minister, I asked you a question about the progress of the construction of the Nordic centre of Planica, which, due to the scope of the works and the level of public funds invested, has been on the table for many years now. This time, however, I was encouraged by two inseparably related events to raise a question that is very similar to that of last year. In early February, 80 years had passed since the newly built Bloudk giants in Planica organized the first international ski jump competition. Another media event is the end of the World Cup in women's ski jumps and men's competition. Last weekend we were able to look back proudly into the valley under Ponca, the test of the new Bludkov giant, this time also with the competition in male competition, was successful not only in the organizational but also in the competitive sense. Slovenian grasshoppers continued to develop a crowd of fans and took care of the complete end of an extremely successful season. Mr. Minister, pictures from Planica indicate that Slovenia is slowly but steadily building a modern Nordic centre. A good part of the jumper's work is under the roof. In view of the record history of ski flights, however, it seems that everyone, together with impatience, is expecting, in particular, the completion of the renovation of the airport. As we read yesterday, the world’s largest aircraft designer, Janez Gorišek, predicted that after the renovation in Planica, it would be possible to fly as much as 250 meters and more. At the same time, he responded enthusiastically to the renovating of the Blood Jumper and the game and said that by developing such a center as a ski jumper, you can no longer wish for it. Mr. Minister, Dr. Pikalo, in view of the above, I ask you: What is the expected dynamics of the completion of the Nordic centre in Planica? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u298	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member and, of course, everyone else is present! Let me structure my answer in three parts. The first part will touch on land issues in the Nordic Centre of Planica, and then, as you know, the project is divided into two parts: the ski section, as we say, and then the running part or the jumping part and the running part. As far as the issue of land-purchase is concerned, we can say that the matter is being realised with the Agrane Community, there is a partition in progress and, of course, a purchase of EUR 60 000 of land, the declaration process is concluded, we are on entering 184 contracts in the land book and regulating the service for running routes. That's as far as the land is concerned. And then the Ski Jumps and Summer Planica. And let me go to the individual facilities, because it'll be the most rational. Bludd's great girl. So the jumper that this past week was on is currently in the stage of what we call the stage of overcoming the flaws. The use permit for experimental operation was issued on 12 October 2012. By July 2014, that is to say, July of this year, all shortcomings must be addressed in order to provide a final usable authorisation. Then we have other facilities, you know we have children's and young jumpers, a technical review of these was carried out on 7 January 2014. There are also individual shortcomings to be addressed, including measurements on winches. The authorisation of use for these children's jumpers is provided for in April 2014. Then, within this framework, we have reconstruction and bridging of the rotor, where the works are completed, a useful permit will be issued together with children's and young jumpers. Then we have the service facility Chaplja, where the facility is completed and the usable permit was issued on 19 March 2014. Then it's what you specifically asked, namely, the Gorišek brothers' airport. With the selected contractor, as you know, she was 23. 8. 2013 signed contract for the reconstruction of the airport and the new construction of the accompanying facilities, the amount of the contract is €3.6 million without VAT – we are late, but given the planned deadline, I can say that the most late appeared in November and continued in December. On the one hand, there are concrete problems and on the other hand in the land, which because of the wetlands in November and December were not safe enough to continue construction. Then we're nine. 1. 2014 was the bankruptcy of SGP Tehnik d.d., which was selected on this call, but the bankruptcy manager Zavod Planica announced that we would be able to continue construction with the subcontractor, so that we expect work to continue in April and should also be completed by October 2014. The next building is the implementation of a comprehensive water supply system – there are ongoing works; then the construction of the lift, where the works are also in progress, is purchased equipment for the Kaplja facility and for wind protection. So, this whole part of the jumping center is supposed to be completed by October 2014. The second part is that running part where the building permit was issued on 6 February 2014, the invitation to tender was published 10. 1. 2014 and is expected in the light of offers that the selection decision will be issued somewhere in mid-April. This will be followed by calls for running routes, football and children's playground, adrenaline park, competition equipment and, of course, a central facility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u300	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. It is encouraging that, following the bankruptcy of the main contractor of the construction company, Technik will be able to continue with the subcontractor or subcontractors, so that the renovation of the airport will not be questionable. It is probably very important now that favourable weather conditions arise for the continuation of construction work as soon as possible so that the deadlines you have discussed can be caught. In my opening question, of course, I pointed out that the issue of building a running part of the Nordic Centre is also very important, namely, the exorcism of this running work is also very important from the point of view of the candidacy for the Nordic World Championship. That's why I want to know: Can this be built in time? What are the deadlines for spending European funds? In this regard, I am interested in: How does the Ministry participate in the World Cup candidacy in Nordic disciplines in 2019? As we are all aware, the organizer will be selected this year, in the first week of June in Barcelona. After a very successful performance of the European Basketball Championship, where the balance sheet was positive, these experiences of sports organisers in Slovenia could also bring the Nordic Championship down very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, please, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Thanks for that part, too. If I may, I will start there at the end where you mentioned the World Cup candidacy in 2019. On 16 April 2013, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave its consent to the Skiing Union of Slovenia to be able to run at the aforementioned FIS congress in Barcelona in June 2014 for the Nordic World Cup in 2019. We have not taken these decisions, we stand for this decision, we are in contact, at least personally, with the Ski Association of Slovenia, we are negotiating for activities, for our help if we need ski links in this project of winning the Nordic Ski Championship in 2019 in Planica. But here I would like to say one thing; the Nordic center of Planica itself is not intended only for this world championship alone. We don't build a Nordic center with all the jumpers, running programs, running centers and so on to organize the World Cup. The idea is that this center has to be in use all the days of the year. Nor will the Nordi center Planica the one who will be the organizer of the World Cup, the Nordic Center will rent these facilities in a ski link that will be the organizer. Of course, it is the task of the Nordic Centre to maintain them in proper condition so that activities can take place throughout the year. As far as the hand is concerned, the deadline is clear: 31. 12. 2015, but we have kind of an internal deadline, this is August 2015, that all constructions of all facilities, including equipment, in the Nordic centre of Planica are also completed. I think that this will be a big deal if you ask me, probably the most beautiful Nordic centre that will currently be in Europe, probably one of the best equipped; and it is because it is also one of the most beautiful valleys not only by natural beauty, but also by tradition and a very rich history of ski jumping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u303	Thank you very much. We continue with the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Janez Ribič, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will be the first to raise the question in this round. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Secretary! There's the first month of the ministry behind you. Given that you have once been an economic minister and since you yourself have been the director of a larger company, and in recent times abroad, I assume that you are well aware of both wages of the story. You have taken over the required economic sector at a time when the economic situation is getting worse from day to day; when we are witnessing new bankruptcys every day, when unemployment is rising from month to month, and when the economic burden is increasing also with new or new real estate taxes, which I know you are opposed to, but unfortunately the government has not supported you in your proposal to reduce the tax rate. And today, as I hear it, you are already being predicted by the protest of the craftsmen. I believe you agree that there is a need for rapid action, so I am interested in: What measures do you plan to take in these first months of your term? Since the time for listing is of course not much, I will ask you if you will present to us today perhaps three of the most important measures for the start of the economy that you are planning for a short period of time within your department. I will also ask you to present to us the specific numbers that you expect from these measures: How much will the number of unemployed be reduced? In particular, how much will these measures improve economic growth this year? I also want to know: Do you support subsidies for the economy? Will you continue to support subsidies to businesses or may you be more inclined to lower corporate taxes? The possible abolition of subsidies, for which I am also committed, and the reduction of taxes would help entrepreneurs in this way. The difference, as far as we are now giving these subsidies, could be compensated by these resources for the reduction of taxes in the state budget. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have a chance to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Let me say that we have completed the preparation of the programme of measures for economic growth and new jobs within the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and have submitted it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be discussed next week and then forwarded to the working bodies of the National Assembly, in particular the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, to present this programme, and that the relevant parliamentary committees can also complement or propose further measures if they assess that they are needed. Here are nine measures, some of which have been implemented in practice and have been adopted in the context of reforms, notably the rehabilitation of the banking system and then the recovery of the emerging activities related to this rehabilitation. As far as my emphasis is concerned, or my specific priorities. First of all, I put measures to promote exports, secondly to contribute to the extension and restructuring of enterprises and to the provision of access to funding sources, and thirdly, I would put measures to improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economic environment and the conditions for the functioning of the economy. If I make these three priority measures more specific. Why is exports first? As exports in this situation in the light of domestic consumption restrictions resulting from fiscal consolidation can, in fact, be the fastest and most contributing to economic growth. Here we anticipate additional programmes or increasing the potential offered by the Bank's SID to promote exports. This is mainly an increase in the potential for export risk insurance and an increase in the potential for export finance. In this part, it is envisaged that we primarily increase the security reserves and then, through these security reserves, we will also allow for a greater volume of SID programmes to be implemented by the bank, linked to the support of exporters. This measure also includes measures to support the internationalisation of the economy, concerted performances abroad and measures to promote tourism, to promote more effectively tourism and the independence of the WTO as a specialised agency that will focus more on the promotion of the tourism performance of Slovenia abroad. Secondly, measures for the extension and restructuring of companies are taken. These measures are already being implemented within the framework of the resolution of banks and the transfer of bad claims to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. We discussed this more extensively yesterday afternoon and evening at a meeting of the Committee on the Economy, where we explained what the dynamics, how many projects have already been started and what effects can be expected and in what timeframes. Well, in addition to this, the segment of companies which are in line with the poor bank's methods also includes an additional set of measures aimed at facilitating access to funding sources and the appreciation of funding sources. First of all, this increases the potential of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and the Fund for Regional Development and Rural Development, as well as the new instrument we are preparing, this is the subordinate capital fund. As a third priority, the competitive environment and the improvement of conditions for the competitiveness of the economy. But I'll be next. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Ribič, you still have a chance to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u308	Thank you for the answers to the first questions. I'd like to know more: Can you suggest a purely concrete measure? What concrete results do you expect from these measures and at what time? I'm glad you said there were nine of them, of which three were highlighted: Does this mean that the end of this year will be less unemployed, and how much will their number be reduced? Maybe your prognosis. Do these measures mean that we will have economic growth already in 2014? When do you expect her? How much? I'd also like to point out the real estate tax once again. Given that this moment is a burning topic, the real estate tax puts tradesmen and entrepreneurs in difficulty and, as we know, already threatens many jobs. As we have heard, today, craftsmen and entrepreneurs have also announced a street trip if the tax is not reduced. That's why I want to know: What are your proposals for these lower rates of real estate tax in the economy? I'm especially interested in: Do you have government and coalition support in these proposals? But I'm also interested in, say, reprogramming loans to businesses. In fact, a company that pays monthly, I don't know, 10,000 euros, if we could turn it into 5,000 euros for a long time, we would keep a lot of jobs, keep a lot of businesses alive somehow, but if we don't, a lot of companies will go bankrupt again and people on the market and so on. I want to know: Are you thinking about something this way?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u310	In particular, the effects will be expressed in anticipation of further growth in exports through the acquisition of new businesses or through risk management in new transactions. This is how we expect export growth to increase by two additional percentage points this year. As far as economic growth is concerned, the forecast of Umar's work, Umar is not yet forecast at the end of spring forecast at the annual level of significant conversion this year, but in the following year, if measures are well implemented and effectively managed, we can hope for a slight positive growth, or at least to look also at the annual level above water. In the last quarter of last year, we achieved this, and at the annual level, growth was even more negative if we reached a zero growth rate in 2014, I think it will be a success, and in 2015, 0.4%, 0.5% growth. As far as job growth is concerned, the document will give a more precise picture of the segments in which we assess them. Here, the estimates or forecasts are most unappreciative, but I am counting on at least 20,000 jobs to be created by these measures in combination with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. However, as far as the ministry's policy is concerned directly in the incentive and assistance segment, the position of both myself and now the governments tends in this direction to make irreparable forms of aid, that is to say, subsidies, largely stop and move on to return forms of aid, and the irreversibles are only in cases where in other countries these are irreversible incentives, such as the promotion of tourism or partly the promotion of internationalisation. As far as taxation and unloading are concerned, that is, I would say, a very sensitive topic. Under the terms of the tax consolidation of major burdens, we cannot be expected. Therefore, it is also very clear from the Coalition Treaty that we will not impose additional burdens on the economy in full with tax or other forms of burden. The problems related to the implementation of the real estate tax law are more negative in the small economy segment, so in this segment, as Minister of Economy, I still propose that the small economy be heard here in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u311	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u312	Thank you. Mr Minister, I wish you would succeed in continuing to have a great deal of wisdom in solving this most pressing problem in the country, as this is how we will all have some of it. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a broader debate on the Minister's response and on the measures to start the economy in general, because the Minister will also be able to present us with more detail of his planned actions. It will also make it easier for us to join committees than we have heard where we can discuss these things. And here, in the National Assembly, let us discuss openly what measures are needed most to put the economy back on its feet. At least we all agree on this subject, the coalition and the opposition, that the new jobs are crucial for the future fate of Slovenia. I expect Members and Members here in the National Assembly to agree with my proposal when we vote on it tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u313	Thank you very much. As you have found, we will vote on your proposal tomorrow, Thursday, 27 March. The next question will be raised by Mrs Iva Dimic, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u314	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr. Secretary! The health of children and adolescents depends to a large extent also on healthy and proper nutrition and particular importance in this context has school diet control. From the point of view of standardisation, school legislation is exemplary in our country, I can say. The Special School Diet Act regulates and provides school meals for pupils and students in primary and secondary schools. The aim of the regulation of the School Diet Act was to provide healthy meals for all pupils and students, regardless of the wealth status of pupils or students and their families. The law also regulates the field of subsidisation of school meals for pupils and pupils from lower income families. The crisis also brought the phenomenon of non-payment of school meals. The parents of the pupils and students of the subsidized lunch or lunch cannot pay. The reason most often lies in the loss of one or both parents’ jobs, their illness, and the failure to pay wages or other causes that parents do not influence. I'm sure all parents want to pay their bills, but they don't always have an objective chance of doing that. In recent times, we have read in the media that the percentage of non-payments to school meals is increasing. In some schools, up to 30 percent of the payers are registered. Clearly, the problem of non-payment of school meals has already reached a level which requires the Ministry to consider measures to address the issue of the settlement of school meals due and unpaid. So, Mr. Minister, I ask you: How will you solve this pressing problem of not paying school meals for students whose parents are unable to pay bills already due? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u315	Thank you. I give my word to Dr. Pickal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u316	Mr. President, thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you are right and I will give you absolutely right here. Indeed, there is no difference between us as to healthy nutrition and the role of healthy nutrition in young adults and children. We want to – of course, I think it is our shared responsibility that the social situation does not lead to the loss of someone. When I talk to the principals – and believe me, over the past few weeks, I have talked to the principals a lot – it has always been a guarantee that whatever social status, lunch is enough. Thus, a child or a youth may not, in principle, remain without lunch at school. Most even tell me that as far as quantity is concerned, too much or enough so everyone can have lunch. But something else is a matter of payment, which you yourself have raised. You know the genetics of this story. The Public Finance Balance Act has limited something, then by the Law of 2012, the School Diet Act since the end of 2012, this right has been extended again, so that more students and students are now beneficiaries of the subsidy. As you probably know, we have different classes of lunch subsidies, including various censorships, and the same applies to lunch in primary school and something like that, although again with different entry criteria, for lunch in high school. Now to what you have asked, or to what appears to be a great problem; that is, the question of not paying. Our view is that by sanctioning children or by labeling, beeping, whatever it is, we will not solve this problem. I have told myself many times that children are not guilty of anything in this regard, because they cannot not pay the bill – my first - grade child does not even know what the bill is, let alone how the bill is paid. So this is the responsibility of the parents. But, of course, with parents, unfortunately, we have an increasingly deteriorating social situation, and as you yourself described the situation, it happens that parents not only don't want to, forget, etc., but simply can't. Here we come forward with our actions, and I can say that we are now in the information-gathering phase, how large the scale, the actual extent of this non-payment is indeed. That unfortunate cell case just made us think that we're starting to collect this data. Previously, we didn't really collect this data. We are now collecting these data and will also coordinate them as further actions with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We ourselves believe that the School Diet Act itself will not solve this issue of non-payment. The school nutrition law solves other things. We believe that we have on the one hand some other instruments, from enforcement and so on, which, of course, should be used as successfully as possible. But on the other hand, we must be aware that this is not a failure to pay bills, whatever they may be, not just a phenomenon in school, but a general social phenomenon, unfortunately, and that these matters and payments do not run as they should be, and that it is on all of us, that we also, in terms of systemic measures, ensure that money is flowing or that these accounts are, at least for those who can settle them, that they are settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u317	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u318	Thanks again. Here I would stress the importance of humanitarian and other non-governmental organisations, which, with their contributions, and in particular with the Botry project, contribute greatly to the mitigation of social pressures in this area. However, as it now appears, they are probably out of control and unable to do so. That is why, Minister, it is true, you said that you are in the assembly phase, but I still think that there will be a systemic approach and a solution to ensure that school meals are provided to all students and students in the future, regardless of the property status of the family from which students and students come. Last but not least, you are probably aware that children, students and students, due to difficult material and social conditions in families themselves, are canceling meals at school because they are trying to avoid being exposed or stigmatized, that they are actually a social problem and that they are not paying. I think it comes to another now that the child doesn't even talk anymore about needing help or eating food because he's afraid because he knows what the social situation is at home. I think we need to sort this out in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u319	Thank you, too. Would you like to complete the answer? Dr. Pikalo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Look, two things seem important to me here. Last year's, we call it, a school-food reality from the state budget is between €24 million and €25 million. We have 30 million euros planned this year. So, at least to that extent or to a greater extent, we can finance or subsidize these meals. This year, we only have 98.9 percent of the students enrolled in school lunch. Well, so to speak, they're all registered for a school lunch. The problem, which is systemic and which you are exposing, is partially solved by the law, which is not our law, but is the law of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and is from December 2013. This is a law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which aims to ensure a fairer way of awarding public funds, and consequently is about eligibility for school nutrition. I know that humanitarian organisations are doing a lot, but I think it's better that we do our best at systemic level, and you yourself have found, I think, very much the same way that we at systemic level try to: for the first time, it doesn't happen that someone "falls" through the system. Secondly, that we have sufficient resources to enable all those who are eligible to fulfil our commitments, which I think are common to all of us in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u321	Thank you, too. We conclude with this question. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Horvat, Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is absent today. You have the floor, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u322	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Madam Ministers! I refer my question to today's absent Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer. The government has announced, so far we are only in the forecast, a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector. This objective is also supported by us, the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia. However, we have received information that the Government, by amending the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and by adopting the Regulation, in particular the Regulation on the method of drawing up indirect budget users' staff plans and the methodology for monitoring their implementation for 2014 and 2015, has determined that not only those whose salaries are financed directly from the State budget but also all employees whose salaries are financed from European funds or even from market activities are considered. From now on, the number of employees whose salaries do not burden the state budget will be subject to a reduction plan for public sector employees. What am I worried about? I am concerned about the implementation of European projects. We know that European projects without good staff cannot be implemented, and we also know that a significant share of the inflows in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia are planned directly from European Union resources. I ask the Minister of Finance: How does the Government represent the drawdown of European funds if jobs are linked to these resources, subject to the reduction of public sector employees? Is it not in the interest of the State to provide the necessary employment for the implementation of programmes financed by European funds through resources that do not burden the European Union’s state budget? I am asking the question because we have already received information on specific cases of programmes that will no longer be implemented because employment on these programmes will not be allowed. It is millions of euros that will not be used, and it is also for employees who will become the country's total cost of losing their jobs, i.e. unemployment benefits, social assistance and so on. So I'm asking Dr. Chufer's Minister of Finance: Is he aware of the problems? How and when is he going to save them? I look forward to his oral response at the next meeting of the National Assembly, and I thank him in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u323	Thank you. And on the basis of your statement that you insist on an oral response, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the next question, which will be posed by Jože Tanko, Secretary-General of the Government of Tanji Sharabon. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u324	Thank you so much for saying that. In my announcement, I wrote that I would ask the Secretary-General of the Government about the storage of magnetograms, audio and other materials related to public tendering or public calls. I think that with the reply of the Secretary-General of the Government there should be no problem, since the Secretary-General of the Government is responsible, inter alia, for information and documentation activities within the Government and government services. I am asking this question because the Secretary-General of the Government, by a decision of the Government, has been appointed to the selection committee for the selection of the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption. We know how the events took place there, both with interviews, both with the candidates' hearings and with decisions, with the selection and later decisions of the candidates, because some have resigned after the appointment. I am asking this question because the selection committee has decided to destroy magnetograms and audio recordings. I ask the Secretary-General of the Government who was on this committee and who participated in this decision: What was the reason for such a decision that these documents belonging to the archival material were important to anyone? What were the reasons for such a decision? Why did this decision also support the fact that in all other cases such sound recordings, both magnetograms and then summaries or records of such public matters are kept? Surely the public concerned, including those who have been in the proceedings, has the right to look into these materials, at the conclusion of this Commission – the Government State Secretary has, as the minutes show, supported such a solution – and these documents have been destroyed. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u325	Thank you. Before I give the floor, I would just like to point out, Mr Tanko, that you have extended the issue to the specific topic of the Commission's appointment process to prevent corruption, which we know is under the authority of the Office of the President of the State. Of course, I will give the Secretary of State my word because the basic question concerns magnetograms, audio and other records and materials related to the tendering procedures and the government can probably answer. But if it can be the one you put on it, I give the floor to the secretary-general. However, I would like to point out that this is in the Office of the President of the Republic. Here you go, Mrs. Charabon.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u326	Thank you so much for asking. Perhaps in the introduction, I would like to say a few things about magnetograms, how in essence is recording and storing sound procedures of those we know in graves. The rules of the tendering procedures lay down the Law on Public Servants, the rules on the storage of audio and other material magnetograms relating to the tendering procedures or public calls, inter alia, are governed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of specific competition commissions. This provides, inter alia, that the interview with the candidate shall be recorded as a rule, for which the applicant must give prior consent. Before the recording begins, the President of the Special Competition Commission shall alert the candidate for the purpose of recording the interview. After the issue of the decision on the suitability or inappropriateness of the candidate, the recording of the interview with the candidate shall be destroyed. The Rules of Procedure on the work of specific competition committees also provide that the evaluation sheet shall be destroyed after the decision on the suitability or inappropriateness of the candidate has been issued. On this issue, the Administrative Court has already ruled, in its judgment of 4 July 2016. 3. 2014 in relation to the application of a candidate for a positioning position. In this case, the Court stated in its explanation that the audio recording of the interview with the applicant cannot be compared to the minutes referred to in the electronic sound carrier. Accordingly, the recording of the interview in the Rules of Procedure is regulated as optional and subject to prior agreement by the applicant. It is therefore not incompatible with the law and does not in itself constitute an infringement of constitutional rights. If we touch upon your question regarding the destruction of documentary material. If a specific law or some other general act provided that a magnetogram was required to be prepared and stored as part of a written document, it would be documentary material that could eventually become archival material. However, if a magnetogram is foreseen only as a working tool for the preparation of other general documentation, such as the minutes, such a magnetogram does not represent documentary material. In this regard, there is also one decision by the information officer, and it was also a selection procedure for one of the positions in the state administration where the applicant requested a recording of the interview before the Commission. In this case, too, the information officer found that the audio recording of the interview with the applicant had only one purpose, namely to serve as a tool for the preparation of the decision on the suitability or inappropriateness of the candidate. Another reason for allowing sound recordings to be kept and further processed is entirely independent of the will of individuals whose personal data are on the tape and without having been in advance aware of the purpose of the storage and other processing of personal data on the tapes was not found by the Ombudsman. I can also refer to the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, in particular Article 3, which deals with the principle of proportionality, namely that personal data processed must be adequate and appropriate in relation to the purposes for which they are collected and further processed. Conclusion on the contrary — this means that personal data must not be processed when the purpose of the processing has ceased. On the basis of all that I have given you, it is said that the decisions of the Administrative Court, the practice of the Official Council and, in particular, of the Competition Commissions, the Information Officer, have been adopted in such a way as to make such conduct most appropriate, most appropriate, most comparable to other procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u327	Thank you. Complementing the answer is required by Mr Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u328	Thank you so much for saying that. As far as documentary and archival material are concerned, some other acts, including the Law on Archive and Documentary Material and Archives, are also regulated. It is also governed by this Regulation on the protection of documentary and archival material and, of course, by the Regulation on the operation of public administration bodies with documentary material. These are the acts that regulate this area. In view of the fact that these legal standards apply and that sound recordings are also an important component of such documentary material and are also mentioned in these documents, it is in some ways unusual for such important functions in the state administration, where these selection procedures are conducted, to destroy sound recordings of conversations and magnetograms of discussions at the conclusion of a commission. I think that this is quite unusual, no matter what you quoted there, one should check it out anyway, but documentation or legal basis, which is stronger than the rules of procedure of the selection commission, does not allow this. I am of the opinion that documentary material, such as sound recordings and magnetograms, should be accessible and stored. Finally, the information officer disclosed the audio record of the hearing of certain parliamentary party presidents. So it's nothing out of the ordinary. That piece of material is much more burdensome than that. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] . After all, it might also be a violation of anyone's rights in these selection procedures if he complained and wanted to prove certain matters. In short, I'm asking why this [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u329	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer, Mrs. Tanya Sharabon? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u330	Maybe I could just repeat what was the basis for the decision of the selection commission. As far as the nature of magnetograms is concerned, we know that there are very different ways to deal with a sound record. The audio record may or may be the basis for the preparation of a literal record, it is said that each word is written separately, another way is to sum up the essential findings, the third way is to only write down conclusions, and the fourth way is to simply not record anything and delete the audio recording – depending on the purpose of the magnetogram itself, what it is prepared for, for what purpose, and in what way the client receiving it is also said to be informed of this recording. In this case, on the basis of all the cases I have cited and would not repeat them again, the decision of the selection committee to consider this decision appropriate to inform the candidates that the footage will be destroyed after the end of the recording, and this was also then justified by the expectation of the candidates who have run for office. It might repeat the distinction between the magnetogram in terms of documentary material or non-documentary material. Thus, if a general act provides that a magnetogram must be prepared and stored as part of a written document in some selection procedure, then this is documentary material and potential archive material. However, if a magnetogram is foreseen only as a working tool for the preparation of other general documentation, such as the minutes, such a programme shall not constitute documentary material.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u331	Thank you. Mr Tanko has a request for a discussion on the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u332	Thank you very much. I must say, the Secretary General's response does not satisfy the government. Now we are in a situation where archives are actually being destroyed or closed, we have problems, or the coalition is not deciding to open, for example, old bank files, bankers, and all are signed, we have problems with an archival law that is being abused and restricts access to certain archival data, it is being re-closed and it is being re-named. And here we have now witnessed in this selection process again an act which certainly does not arouse any optimism in transparency if important documents have been destroyed. In this situation in which we are, we actually have serious problems; some who are involved in some procedures have some paranoia, some persecutors, and they want to destroy all traces of their work. I therefore propose, Mr President, that, because of the response I am not satisfied with, and also because of the general situation that has emerged in recent months, we also hold a debate in the National Assembly on this reply from the Secretary-General of the Government. For all that happens with various files, with various documentation, leads only to a certain direction of closure, concealment, concealment and not opening and transparency. I regret that this has happened in such an important process as the appointment of the Commission to prevent corruption. That there has also been a erasure in this process of what has happened and, in fact, other than the minutes or the report, there is nothing. All those things that were distinguishing candidates between themselves were actually destroyed by this magnetogram and the sound record. This certainly cannot raise the credibility, transparency of the work of the public administration and all those involved in such selection procedures. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on the Secretary-General's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 27 March 2014 in the framework of the envisaged votes. We're moving on to the next question. Mag. Majda Potter will ask the Minister of Culture Dr. Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u334	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary-General and Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In the beginning, I'm going to ask the question as I wrote it: What activities are planned by the Ministry of Culture in relation to the definition of the composition, the role and the manner in which the expert commissions operate in public calls? My question is growing from a number of media records on how the applicants responded to individual calls when they found that they had not been scored so high by the callers that they would have received funds on the call. I am aware that last year, at the end of the year, we adopted the Law on the Realisation of the Public Interest in Culture, indeed with minor corrections and that the Ministry is also planning more extensive amendments to this Act, which is, in fact, my question, and in the new issue – December 2013, as we have said – there were also some provisions linking the functioning of the Commissions with the role of the Minister in their work. Thus, the Minister's mandate after the intervention financing of projects has been amended, which should be the role of the Minister when an invitation to tender has already taken place, and intervention measures can be used; what the Minister's competence is to harmonise the call procedure or call for a decision; what the Minister's competence is to reject the Commission's proposal, which reports on the applications and returns the proposal to the re-examination. It is interesting, however, that the Minister cannot make a different decision, but he may, for example, require reconsideration. The Minister may also authorise another person employed by the Ministry to take decisions in public tenders. I specifically mentioned these things because in one case, which I will refer to hereafter, one of these provisions has been challenged. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: Do you intend to make any changes to the composition, role and manner of the expert commissions in the calls for proposals in the broader amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u335	Thank you, too. I give my word to Dr. Grilled.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u336	Thank you. Madam Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the President! Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, this issue, which we have discussed extensively over the past period, has received many opinions from both the profession and the public. But to begin with, let me point out that the statutory law in culture, which has been very closely governing public procedures or redistribution procedures since 2002, has been quite precise and, I hope to say, has very successfully defined the role of the State, the role of the competent minister, the role of the policy and the role of the professional commissions. Our cultural policy system is a hybrid under this roof law, where redistribution of public money through public calls and in a relatively high transparent manner is indeed taking place within the Ministry as a public authority, but in a way that is extremely important to the professional commissions as external consultative bodies. The novel ZUJIK, which you accepted a few months ago, took a major step forward; in fact, it pulled the cut. The Minister does not decide on the contents, the policy does not decide, but he makes his proposal to the expert commissions, the Minister may challenge any of these decisions, ask the expert commission to re-substantiate it, but cannot decide otherwise. I am very much in favour of this solution because I think it is consistent, and because it also brings clear responsibility to the profession in the decision-making system. On the one hand, we have expert commissions, which are external consultative bodies, their decisions are autonomous, we have a transparent way of distributing public funds, we expect transparency from the expert commissions, and of course we now have some pretty clear responsibility, which, of course, may have been confused earlier in that the Minister has been attributed such or other discretion, and this story is now gone. Let me say that in the Ministry in very different fields from art – for every artistic area, from music, theatre, to film, books, performing arts, intermedia arts – and then librarianism, cultural heritage, architecture, design and so on, special professional commissions operate. These are 18, and 77 experts are involved. Similar arrangements are followed by the parastatal authorities, according to both the public agency, the Slovenian Film Centre and the Public Book Agency, which also have regional commissions. So far, the logic has been very similar – I am starting to raise a little bit here the question of how in the future, that we have gone to a very detailed division into a narrow sectoral limitation of the work of the expert commissions. What would be the point here? I think that the public debate so far has focused in particular on some very large calls, in particular the call for public cultural programmes, where multi-annual programmes and the tasks of expert commissions are always ungrateful. In this case, the expert commissions have been tasked with bringing together of 77 applicants 32 of those applicants who will receive the status of public cultural programme operators as well as multi-annual funding. Of course, competition is severe here, we need to understand that what the Ministry has done with regard to certain public perceptions, professions, media and the like is to ensure absolute transparency of procedures. Unlike before, only the results of the tenders have been published, all the explanations of the expert commissions have been published, the explanations of the examination of applications, the explanations of the complainants' complaints, the explanations of the expert commissions, once they have verified the correctness of their decisions, then the final decision. There are only 90 pages of explanations available on the Ministry's website in this single call. At this point, a certain public debate has calmed down and this transparency is important. But we've taken two more steps. Firstly, we have already imposed an obligation on the expert commissions before the procedure to indicate in advance which projects may be involved by the members of the expert commissions. And thirdly, for the most sensitive tenders, even for this, we have also introduced the fact that they are professional [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Decisions shall be made at the press conference.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u337	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Of course, I am aware that the applicants are large and few and that the applicants sincerely believe that their programmes are the best. There is no good creativity and art without such conviction. But still. I understand that the Minister takes into account the decisions of the election commissions, but the problem arises the moment the Minister uses this role to point out something to the selection process, I mean the purely concrete thing, and the Administrative Court has attracted the applicant here, I mean the Maribor Regional Museum. I am interested in such cases: What's gonna happen? For I believe that full responsibility, even though he is a political official, cannot be avoided by the Minister, especially when there is a very objective process in the selection process, due to a conflict of interest, I would say, despite the exclusion of appearance. However, as with these expulsions, I will again quote the Moroccan case at local level and raise doubts as to whether such exclusions prove to be the best option for professional commissions to decide. I'd like to draw your attention to one more detail. The Law on the Slovenian Audiovisual Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and there, I think, is also in preparation or in discussion, the National Council for Culture has pointed out, in my opinion very rightly, what the director's function is envisaged. The director also has advisory bodies, committees that decide, but ultimately he is responsible. And here I see some kind of parallel between the director and the minister when I explain my view of this matter. Thank you very much for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u339	In order to complete my answer, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Now we're going to talk about the future. Unfortunately, all I had to do was paint the initial state. Over the past period, we have identified some very weak points in the ministry's functioning in various areas of call. In particular, I point out two things: calls for European funds, where, as a rule, I do not know, from time to time, members of the Commission were only officials, there were no external members. I think that this is a major drawback, in particular an unfortunate Maribor case, is also an example which has made very much to think and has also taken very clear measures on our part, both with regard to the sanctioning of staff on the irregularities that have been identified, as well as with regard to the sequences for all subsequent calls. Immediately for the next call for career prospects, we have set up an expert committee, which mostly includes external independent experts and not ministry staff. We have taken a similar step in the area of human resources tendering. Here, too, election commissions have always been composed solely by the staff. We have interrupted this practice at this level. The Act on the Slovenian Audiovisual Centre, which is in public debate, provides one part of the response, which will also be the response to the amendments to the umbrella law on culture, is called ZUJIK. In fact, one very important distinction: competence in evaluating programmes and projects for competent staff, which will relate to only measurable criteria or criteria for tendering, and that part of the criteria that requires aesthetic, including subjective, assessment – of course, we are also talking about subjective assessment in art – and which will in fact be entrusted to expert commissions. This will set a clear distinction between what is the role of the staff in a process and what is the role of the expert commission. The public debate on Slavec – not the most famous Slovenian wolf, but, of course, the Law on the Slovenian Audiovisual Centre – highlighted another solution, which is also very serious debate in ZUJIK and which is also very serious by the committee preparing the changes. In fact, we replace the system of many professional commissions with an art world as some major collective body covering the entire area of art, the heritage world and, in this case, the Slavec, including the audiovisual culture world. This would give us more collective decision-making, thus falling some boundaries at the level of artificial delimitation, such as contemporary art, which is intermediate, where it belongs, more visually, more to performing and similar. This, of course, also gives us a perhaps more visionary decision. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] programmes and projects, and I think this is the future we will bet not only on with Slavec, but also with ZUJIK. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u341	Thank you. We can put an end to this question. The next question will be asked by the mag. Mr Andrej Šircelj, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Karl Erjavac. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u342	Thank you very much, distinguished president, distinguished ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! After today's news from Ukraine, I can say that events in Ukraine are happening at light speed if we take the political part, if we take the military part, then we can't say that this is going so fast, because probably military matters are happening faster. When it came to the fact that a part of the Russians or that the Russians living in Crimea had asked Moscow or Putin for protection and that a referendum had been held later, and that President Putin had actually signed the decision to declare Crimea Russian, there had been some precedent that had not actually taken place in the last 20, 25 years. Today we can say that there has been information that in all 193 military facilities on Crimea hangs Russian flags and also by the Ukrainian President to fear or believe that Russia wants to continue its occupation of the southern and eastern parts of Ukraine. This means, of course, that it is also a new period in Europe, that it is essentially a matter of reopening the issue of the cold war between Americans and Russians, and that of course means that in fact one of the countries relatively close to Slovenia has lost territorial integrity. In this regard, economic issues are also raised, namely the protection of Slovenia's interests both on the Russian market and on the Ukrainian market. In view of the fact that we already know the foreign ministry's statements on this subject, I am particularly interested in: How will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia protect the interests of the economy in these two countries? I want to know: What is the position — perhaps to be repeated or extended at these new events — given that Ukraine's territorial integrity has been violated? What will be the sanctions they are preparing? After all, today Obama declared that the Russians were to be alone. And of course: From a strategic point of view, what does this mean for Slovenia and also for the European Union, which is part of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u343	Thank you. I give my word to Minister Karl Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u344	Thank you very much to the Member for this question. Also a nice greeting to all Members who are still here and insist after seven and a half hours of meetings of the National Assembly and questions sent! I have to agree with your analysis. Your analysis is correct, quite accurate. I must say, I am very concerned about what will happen in the future. In doing so, I should stress once again that Slovenia represents Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and that Slovenia's position is not only the Government, but also the Foreign Policy Committee, where we had a rather thorough debate, particularly in the closed part of the debate on the Foreign Policy Committee. We do not recognise the referendum that took place on 16 March because it is contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution and also to international agreements, treaties. Let me mention the Budapest Memorandum and some other contracts that were concluded later. Let me also mention that the Commission of Venice, which operates within the Council of Europe and which includes the most visible legal experts, is also of the opinion that this referendum was illegal. Also correct is your finding that the troops in this part of Ukraine, it is said in Crimea, are all under the flag of the Russian Federation and also the Ukrainian interim President of Turkey has called on the Ukrainian soldiers to withdraw from this area in particular in order to prevent further escalation of the unrest, violence. As far as Slovenian economic interests are concerned, it should be borne in mind that the Russian Federation, including Ukraine, are very important economic partners. With the Russian Federation, last year's trade was around €7 billion, according to Russian data, even €2 billion, this year, if there were no such events, and if business were to take place normally, we expected at least €2 billion in trade with the Russian Federation. As far as Ukraine is concerned, last year there was a 250 million euro trade in goods, with the expectation of a significant increase in this trade also because we had very intense contacts. Last year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also held a special meeting of some Slovenian economists who export to these markets, including a meeting with the Vice-President of the Ukrainian Government. We must not forget that Ukraine is also expected to make a European basketball championship in 2015, which is now of course cancelled and here in particular they wanted to gain our knowledge in this area, given that the last basketball championship was in Slovenia and it was quite successful so after the organizational salary and we also financially see that it did not bring any loss, which is rare for such sports events. I must say that the European Union on the European Council last week has not decided on any economic sanctions, and has increased the list that has already been adopted by foreign ministers. I hope that I will also have the possibility of a complementary question, that I will be able to continue and that I will try to fully answer you what we intend and how we see the situation of economic cooperation both with Ukraine and with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u345	Mr. Shircelj, he has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u346	Thank you very much, Minister, for that answer. In any case, it is also likely that the strategic issue, in addition to the economic question, for Slovenia, for the Slovenian economy, is also: But has a new era of cold war begun? Does this mean, in fact, that there is also some way of creating, if you want new countries, new borders, especially in those countries where many Russians live after all? We know that there is still a Russian minority in some other European countries; in short, it is strong. Does this mean that if Putin works in this way – it seems to me that he works much faster than some European or world organisations, where there is still a need to find some consensus; of course he can do it quite on his own, that I will not say it on my own, and these reactions are sometimes a little late or a little late, including those organisations, from Nate to others, the European Commission and so on. How is Europe prepared, and within Europe also Slovenia, at some new geostrategic moment, at some new political moment? As I mentioned, in recent decades — perhaps 30, 40 years to correct myself — we have not known such cases. At least not in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u347	I give the floor to the Minister to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u348	Thank you very much for this supplementary question. As far as the political situation is concerned and if this means a change in the border in this space, time will tell what will happen. We have strongly condemned any change in borders within the European Union. We do not believe that this is to be taken into account because some of the order that was established in the previous century in particular, when the Berlin Wall fell and when some of the countries that were once members of the Warsaw Pact became members of NATO, including the members of the European Union. I think, as far as this is concerned, it is very important for the dialogue between the Russian Federation and Ukraine to begin. You have read today that the first such meeting has taken place between Foreign Minister Sergei Lovrov and the Ukrainian Foreign Minister. I think this is the right step that will lead to a solution that will be appropriate both for the Ukrainian side and for the Russian side. But I don't want to speculate on what's going to happen here. We are in favour of the dialogue between the two parties in this situation. However, I would like to continue that economic work, which is also extremely important, especially for our economy and also for the people of Slovenia. Last but not least, this afternoon we were able to listen to how important it is for the economy to be strengthened to have new jobs, because this is the only way to solve a large part of the problems related to the financial situation and social situation of our population. I must say that so far there is no economic sanctions, so this crisis has not yet caused any economic damage. As it is said, no decision has been taken in the European Council on this, except that they have extended the circle of persons with whom there is no such contact. I therefore hope that economic cooperation will not be disrupted by this crisis; I am the chair of this mixed economic commission between Russia and Slovenia. I must say that it is planned to visit the month of May or June to prepare the programme again and review all those projects that we are working with the Slovenian economy. I also hope that [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Ukraine will receive this financial assistance that is urgently needed; €3 billion will now go from the European budget and €11 billion from the additional aid. If that happens, then I think it will be safe to do business with the Ukrainian side. Because you need to know [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u349	Minister, I need to warn you that the microphone is off, so thank you, too. [[…]] Can we just get this out of the way? Thank you. We are moving on to the next question that will be raised by Josef Jerovšek, Minister for Foreign Affairs Karl Erjavac and the Minister without a portfolio responsible for Slovenians in the place and around the world of Gorazd Žmavc. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Minister, both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! On 7 March, a serious incident took place at the opening of the Slovenian Consulate in Melbourne, a scandal that affected and damaged the countries of Slovenia and the Slovenian Communities in Australia. Slovenian Ambassador Milan Balažič, Ambassador to Australia, invited a convicted pedophile wanted in several countries to the event, but he did not invite quite some very distinguished Slovenians living in Australia. On this scandal, the Slovenian government and the foreign ministry react very vaguely, with the aim of sweeping under the carpet. I want to know: Why does the government or the ministry act in this way? Does the Minister for Slovenians around the world and the locality not detect the indignation and reactions of other living Slovenians? Does the Government not intend to protect the reputation of Slovenia and the Slovenian communities in Australia? I just want to know: Why isn't the government acting? Such a course is simply unacceptable. We also want to know: In what area is Nicholas Oman involved, or is he trading with the ambassador or Slovenian government? In view of its past, political connections and machinations in the past, the question is raised: What can we be afraid of when the government appears to be shrinking?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u351	Thank you. I give the floor first to Minister Karl Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u352	Thank you very much for the question. I must say that this event has hurt me very much, especially because of the scandal you yourself have identified from a beautiful event. It's just that in Canberra, or Melbourne, we opened up a podium, and we have an embassy in Canberra. But I have to say so. As soon as I found out about this event, I ordered extraordinary surveillance because I wanted to obtain accurate information. It is a matter of whether or not Mr Nicholas Oman has received an invitation from the Slovenian Embassy in Australia. According to my information, he did not receive such an invitation and was not invited. However, because the matter is unclear and because it still insists on receiving an invitation, I have ordered extraordinary control, so that all the documentation will be reviewed, and I am confident that we will find out what the truth is about this. 121 invitations were given, and an invitation was also given to the daughter of Mr Nicholas Oman. According to my information, the daughter did not come to this opening, while apparently the father, probably through this invited, attended it. But you need to know that this is not a closed event, it's not an internal event, it's an open event. Of course, it is very difficult now to prevent someone from attending such an event or not. However, I agree that it would be very inappropriate if an invitation was indeed issued in the name of Mr Nicholas Oman. Besides, it's very difficult to stop. We also know here in Parliament that we have a public work and it is probably very difficult to prevent someone who has been convicted of a crime that is unworthy, probably impossible to prevent him from participating in a public meeting of the National Assembly. But it is true that it will be a problem for me if an invitation has been issued by the embassy in Canberra regarding Mr Nicholas Oman. That's why I immediately ordered emergency surveillance, and there, at least, I hope, we'll get a detailed report on what actually happened. However, I must say that I am very sad about this event, because it was a beautiful event that would help preserve the Slovenian community and also the new consulate will certainly offer appropriate consular services. I would also leave the Minister for Slovenians around the world and instead to complement me, especially in the part concerning the Slovenian community and the reaction to this event.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u353	Thank you. I give my word to Minister Gorazd Zmavc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u354	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome to you as well. However, I sincerely thank Ambassador Jožef Jerovšk for this question, because this question and this event really affected the situation in Australia, and especially the Slovenians, who are honorable people in this part of the world. I must say that the first reactions to this event came mainly from our Australian-Slovenian community, where they responded very quickly to this event, they were aware of these responsibilities that are happening to this event. At the same time, I must say that we have informed them that we understand the involvement of the Slovenians in Australia and that we regret that this event has taken place, but we all hope that this same event will not affect the further work of this community, which I think is hard and will actually work with its reputation even further. However, as has already been reported by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we expect that the transmission will be an explanation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because this explanation and an apology would probably be a good basis for these matters to be settled. Otherwise, I must say that individuals, Consul General Brežnik and Pater Christmas priest, have also distanced themselves publicly. I also think that the reaction of the community itself was quite positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u355	Thank you. Can you turn it off, Minister? Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Indeed, the distinguished Slovenians distanced themselves from the event, but the Slovenian government, the interior ministry, did not distance itself. The information at your disposal shows that the invitation to Nicolas Oman has been issued. Of course, Mr. Secretary didn't answer my question either: In what area is Nicolas Oman involved, or is he trading with the ambassador – he is said to be seen several times – or with the Slovenian government? What bad hope can Slovenia have because we know the history of its trade? I also ask: Why has Slovenia not reacted as other countries react to such scandals to call off the ambassador? This is how Slovenia reacted last year, when, in Beijing, the President of the Association for the Values of the National Liberation Fight, she also withdrew from the Ambassador's post for damage and shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u357	Does anyone want to complete the answer? I give my word to Minister Erjavac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u358	Thank you. The truth is very important to me. I need to find out if the invitation was actually issued by the embassy. If this has indeed happened that Mr Nicolas Oman has received such an invitation from the embassy, it is quite clear that this is the responsibility of the Ambassador, and believe that I will also take appropriate action. However, if this was not the invitation that Mr Nicolas Oman appeared there, I can only regret that he has done great harm to the Slovenian community and also to the Embassy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our diplomacy. This way, you can expect me to obtain all the data on the basis of emergency controls, and I also assure you that in this matter, no matter what the result of emergency surveillance will be, I will also report on this to the Committee on Foreign Policy. So there is no doubt about it, I will take the appropriate action. With regard to the suggestion that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Ambassador Balažič should deal with Nicholas Oman and in view of his experience in the 1990s, they say that he was a arms dealer, I must say that we do not know anything about this; but we will also look at this in the framework of emergency control. But I can assure you, as far as the Slovenian government is concerned, there is no trade in my conduct, at least not with weapons, but at least with Mr Nicholas Oman. As I know the situation as far as the budget is concerned, I do not think the Ministry of Defence has the means to deal with any arms dealer at this time. I doubt, however, if we had the means to do so beyond the laws in force in Slovenia; this is said to be past calls and past procedures. If you think this is really happening, I would ask you to provide me with relevant documents, evidence that we will be able to deal with the matter, and we will also ask the Minister of Defence if they hold your allegations.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u359	Thank you. Are we done with this question? Thank you. Ms Sonja Ramšak will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Members of Parliament, Member of Parliament, Honourable Minister! On the occasion of our visit to the Parliamentary Group in the Podravska region, we also visited the Office of St. Lenart in Lenart, the House of St. Lenart, and on this occasion we were informed of some of the problems faced by concessionaries in this area. There have been many more of these questions and initiatives, and I have already prepared a written question for you today, which will be sent to you tomorrow. Allow me to address only one area of this oral question, which is the employment of persons with disabilities. We know that the employees of the disabled are employers, both physically and legally, who have more than 20 employees. That some companies or agencies and consular offices and embassies are exempt, I do not think they are covered by these quotas. I would ask you, however, if you could answer a specific question about this: When can public service providers of institutional and other protection of the elderly expect the equalization of the conditions for employment of disabled persons or the elimination of the differences in the provision of employment quotas for disabled persons between health and social protection activities – so is Q Group, which has to provide 6 per cent of the quotas – and financial and insurance activities or other activities that have to provide 2 per cent of the quotas? In fact, the representatives of the institution pointed out this particular activity of insurance in order to make it more reasonable to expect higher quotas in this activity, while lower ones. So I'm going to ask you for that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u361	Thank you. I give my word to the secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u362	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Members, most of the time I will not make exceptions! Thank you for the question, perhaps in answer I could explain a little more what the law itself stipulates. The Act on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted in 2004 and this Act has enacted a quota scheme for the employment of persons with disabilities. Article 62 provides that the quota amount depends on the employer’s activities and amounts to at least 2 to a maximum of 6 %. When the first regulation was made, employers made it possible to indicate in the specific forms how many disabled persons were employed at that time, and on this basis the first regulation was adopted, which determined this quota amount from 2 to 6 per cent according to individual groups within the standard qualification of activities. It is also important that the law provides that a proposal for fixing the height is the responsibility of the Economic and Social Council for this proposal and that the Government then adopts a regulation. On the basis of data from the Slovenian Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities' Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Equal Opportunities reiterated its proposal to the Economic and Social Council to align the amount of quotas by activity with the actual percentage of disabled employees after activities, but this proposal, which was transmitted, was opposed by employers' associations. So it is always in a way that the Economic and Social Council needs the consent of the social partners in particular on these issues. This was not due to opposition, so the government is likely to adopt this regulation tomorrow, but it is a minor correction, mainly at the level of the prize paid, but we are not interfering with the quota system. In this proposal, there were differences; for some activities, this quota system remained unchanged; for some, it has changed. However, for this group of Q activities that you are referring to, the actual proposal for a regulation has not made any changes. If we go down now, why is it in insurance, like in this area of Q, which covers social and health activities, mainly because the situation at the time was so in 2004. However, it must also be said publicly that by hiring persons with disabilities you can satisfy the quota, but you can pay into the public fund system and with these payments to those who do not meet the quotas, then the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund, now united, pays the rewards to those who exceed. Therefore, this harmonisation is also necessary [[…]] Estimates of the operation of our quota system are good, but I believe that when we look at the individual classification and the group that sets out at letter level, that within Q certain activities or areas where they reach this quota more difficult, but we also overreacted, how else would we set this quota, but never everyone is satisfied, so it is very difficult to crush things more precisely within individual letters of the standard classification. However, I think that the possibility is also sufficient with this implementation of the replacement quota, so that you have reserved public contracts to give to a disabled company, to provide you with certain services and thus to meet the quota. Such a system is not so rigid that you actually just have to hire, it's flexible enough to have other options. We will continue these discussions, but one of the things that has also occurred on the Economic and Social Council is the issue of disability insurance as a system. This is also one of the things that will be urgently needed in the proposal for legislative changes in this area, and also then the differentiated level of insurance associated with it. In short, we won't be running out of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u363	Thank you, too. Mrs Sonja Ramšak has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I must say that I am pleased with your answer, perhaps because I did not explain long and wide why this problem was also exposed. I know that we have quite a number of people with disabilities in Slovenia and it is also right to make sure that they have the opportunity to work. With this, I absolutely support your efforts. On the other hand, there is a problem with concessionaires, but I will say what you will see from the written question. In fact, you know that the Real Estate Tax Act has just been passed, that homes or establishments are charged with 0.5 percent of the current law in force; that, for example, these institutions do not have the possibility of participating in certain tenders. So it's a broader issue. All these costs, which concessionaires have on the one hand in front of public institutions, are also somehow a problem of establishing the prices of services and, on the other hand, normally, concessionaires see how, then, these costs are somehow calculated, and they are always, in fact, always practically, at the burden of these suppliers. I really thank you, I will not ask for a public debate, but I will also be happy with your answer to the written question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u365	In order to complete my reply, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u366	We will certainly answer the written question as always. However, the problem of concessionaires and public institutions, which all perform public service, is somehow exposed, especially in the last period when these are pressure on the price. Of course, we have quite a few concessionaires in the system who are significantly complementary to the public service, but in particular the price, which is generally 10 to 20 per cent higher for concessionaires than in public institutions. There are several reasons, but above all it is important that they have the possibility of depreciating the cartridge they have invested. Because this price is basically higher than in public institutions, in the crisis in which we are today, every euro is very important, and then other smaller things that were perhaps not so important before the crisis come to the fore. I think that, above all, long-term care needs to be fully regulated, without it we will find it difficult to provide some level of good care in institutional protection for all those who need it. The analysis also shows that this proportion of resources provided by individuals for long-term care is increasing and is already around 0,30 per cent of GDP, and the public still has about 1 per cent there. But it is certainly necessary to make a system where we will allow everyone to become involved in insurance and to afford adequate care at an old age. Not only in homes, it is especially important to have help at home; so to develop a modern service system and also give individuals the opportunity to receive money so that they can pay for it. My vision is to encourage these services to be carried out by social enterprises to briefly expand these fields of social economy, and this also represents a significant proportion of the possibilities for new employment in us – if we arrange with Europe, which already has at least a more developed part of the Western part, Germany is such, including Luxembourg – very much. These are all the things that await us, and I want us to choose to be Minister of Health or Minister as soon as possible, and that we will be able to arrange these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-03-26-SDZ6-Redna-23.ana.u367	Thank you. I also conclude this question. Then we have exhausted all the questions raised by the Members, and I thank the Presidents of the Government, ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. I hereby end this item of the agenda to be drawn up on Thursday, 27 March 2014, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you for today and good-bye tomorrow.
