ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u1	We continue our 70th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – this is the 2013 Report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services. We are moving on to a debate on the Commission's findings and views and on the proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Dr. Jožef Kunič could have had a word — he is not currently in the hall. Then Mr. Michael Prevc – he is not currently in the hall, then Mr. Jožef Horvat – he is not in the hall, Mr. Jožef Jerovšek – nor is he, Mr. Dragutin Mate – nor is he, Mr. Franz Bogovič – is not in the hall, Dr. Ljubica Jelusič cancels, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Porotat – is not in the hall, Mr. Aljoša Jerič – is currently not in the hall, mag. Ivan Vogrin – not in the hall, Mrs Jasmina Opec – is not in the hall, Mrs Alenka Pavlič – is not in the hall, Mr Dragan Bosić – is not in the hall. Mr. Lucky Meh. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u2	Dear Mr. President. Members of Parliament and Members, Mr Secretary of State! Today at this meeting, in fact, at the conclusion of this call of the National Assembly, we are also discussing one of the extremely important topics, this is the work of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, and at the outset, let me say that we support the conclusions of the Social Democrats and that, of course, we also declare that the material is well prepared and that the Commission has done its role and the tasks it has had, and that all the services we have supervised and cooperated with them are doing well. In particular, I think it is necessary to stress the fact that we have dealt with various cases that have taken place in one way or another and have intervened in the work of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, and in particular to say that we have tried to monitor and monitor the implementation of services and respect for laws and constitutions. In fact, this is an extremely important issue, and here we have found that the services carried out, within their competences, at least in those areas that we controlled, all those tasks, in accordance with the legislation – as the first communication. As a second message, we have also said several times that there are threats with extremism in Slovenia, with various extremisms, that this threat is low. This is said to be the work of looking at what is happening, that danger is not high, and of course we are subject to everything that is going on around us. This, of course, seems an important message to me. And the third message is that, in the field of legislation, it is necessary to make careful changes — whether or not — to legislation that would eventually affect the rights of human freedom, that is, every individual, and of course, the absolute right for every human being to know if anything is happening to him. As a result of all this, the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission is the Commission that works without the presence of the public, but when faced with a particular problem, then we are very careful to address this problem and we are trying to ensure what is necessary for the work of the services and the Commission. Once again, we accept the proposed conclusions of the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u3	Thank you. The next one can have the word "magic." Jana Jenko, who's not in the hall right now. Then Mr Aloysius Potočnik – he is not in the hall. Mrs Maša Kociper – is not in the hall, Mr Ivan Hršak – is not in the hall, Mr Richard Braniselj is checked out, Mr Jani Möderndorfer – is not in the hall, Mr Franz Jurša – is not in the hall. Mr Jerko Čehovin – he is not in the hall. I'm asking the government representative, does he want a word? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the proposer? [[He's not in the hall.]] I note that all the panellists reported received the floor — those who were present at the hall. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Just as a reminder if you wish to discuss Mr Dragutin Mate and the representative of the Government at this stage, I suggest that you apply for the floor at this stage, because it will not be possible to apply for the debate later. I understand that only Mr Joseph Jerovšek has been declared. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u4	Thank you very much. With regard to these conclusions and conclusions, I have only a brief intervention in relation to what the Secretary of State has previously said is that they are examining extremely thoroughly every leak of classified information or information. With regard to this issue, I just want to say that this is not entirely true and must be favored with the truth. In fact, after one of our visits, after one of our board sessions, which was closed to the public, an article appeared in the newspaper for 14 days or so, talking about our meeting, under the peres of journalist Karbe. It was the complete insinuation and disinformation that should be discussed, how it should be reported, that the supervision of Professor Andrej Kurnik, one of the insurrectional leaders, was not mentioned, absolutely not, this doctor! Of course, then I asked the Government why this abuse had occurred and if the Government had investigated this political abuse because it was a political abuse, and I would not be restoring the entire content. Madam Secretary-General, who, through the Prime Minister, was one of the chairmans of the Sove, Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, refused to respond; there was little response from Mr Virant, and otherwise no information. And then on our next visit to Owl, we convinced ourselves that the government had not even asked Owl what they had done, whether they had investigated this information. She didn't even try to answer the Member of Parliament and she wasn't interested! This is an outrageous scandal, of course, which has happened. And on this basis, it is clear to the Member of Parliament, with some political filling, that these misinformations were sent to the newspaper knowingly and that it was painful for the Government to report on how this happened and what it had found. Of course, my performance is to ensure that such unheard-of behaviour by the services would not be repeated so that the Commission's visits are used for political disqualification and political accounting. That's what happened back then. I hope that my question, and also this performance today, has made it clear that this should not be happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u5	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. I note that the amendments to the proposal have not been tabled, so the National Assembly will vote on the proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services in half an hour in the framework of the vote today. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 70th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 12.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u6	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Is everything okay with the voicemails? We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Fiscal Rule Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a fiscal rule law is suitable for further consideration. In doing so, I inform you that, pursuant to Article 148(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be taken if at least two thirds of all Members vote for it. That's 60 or more. Can we make a decision? The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a fiscal rule law to regulate public finances in a way that the future generations will not pay the interest paid by this generation. It is therefore essential to harmonise the revenue and expenditure of the state budgets, the budgets of the whole country and to start reducing the country's indebtedness. This is the basic purpose of this law. In addition, the aim is to break it off by the unconstitutional state in which the State is located. The fact is that in May 2013 the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was amended, and this provision also provides that the non-constitutional situation should actually be regulated within the next six months. The government didn't do it. This led to the establishment of a special working group which drafted the law. Even on the basis of this draft law, the government did not harmonise the law between political parties. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to propose a fiscal rule law in the general debate. The general debate has shown that there are certain differences between political parties, but these differences are not insurmountable. This marriage is not for any government, it's for the next government, whatever it is. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the law be supported, that 3 or 4 issues be settled in a further procedure, that political parties agree on solutions that are not only decisive for the Slovenian Democratic Party, but for the whole country; not only for the present generation, but also for the future generation and future generations. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Fiscal Rule Act and we also call on all other political parties to support and do something good for future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u8	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to be very brief, because we actually said everything in the debate. The New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats estimates that this proposal for a fiscal rule law should be supported in the first reading. It is a good basis for a good final product to be developed at second reading. Look, it's been two years and three months since the international treaty, the so-called fiscal pact, was signed, and months have passed, which have been laid down in the law, in which the government should draw up a fiscal rule law. We regret that this has not happened, despite the fact that we have shown a lot of good will, a lot of expertise and a lot of momentum here, that the actual fiscal rule law would also be passed. Unfortunately, this coordination between the parliamentary groups was not conducted as a project, and there was no timetable for coordination. If that were the case, if this coordination on the government's fiscal rule law were to be conducted as a project, today this law, I can certainly say, would be under our roof. However, we still have enough time, colleagues and colleagues, and I am sure that we are also willing enough to make a good fiscal law and adopt it. Of course, that takes 60 votes today. New Slovenia will contribute to this in its capacity.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u10	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u11	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Civil Code will also absolutely support this law. For us, this means that there is actually one consensus in our country, that we really can no longer afford to spend more than we can create. Therefore, I think it is imperative that we not wait until we begin the procedure. In fact, there is still something to be rectified in the law, but this means for me one great moral obligation for all of us who sit here and who are obliged to take a step to stop this crazy debt once and for all and to commit ourselves to creating more and, of course, to ensure prosperity, the social state and everything. We know that in the long run, without increasing the new value, without creating any more, that's not going to work. The responsibility for the programmes we have is absurd and therefore it is necessary and we will support this bill in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u12	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u13	Even in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the finances are the basis for good work, that work is everywhere, both in the family budget, in the small company, in the large company, and certainly in the country. What unregulated finance means in companies, we have seen in the last five years when a whole range of companies have come so far because of wrong decisions in this area that it has even ended up in bankruptcy. The financial policy that has been pursued in Slovenia since the end of 2008 is from 2009 onwards, perhaps with an exception in between, is a policy that has brought the country so far that we have come from 8 billion debts to 28. It is high time that Slovenian policy in this area found consensus to adopt a fiscal rule. The implementing law on the fiscal rule is the one that will determine with what dynamics this deficit will be reversed first, it is said that the year will end positively first, it is said without new credits for the current business, and in what time period we will also start the credits we have, in truth, very much, even pay back. We are all aware that we cannot do this in one year, so the implementing law also makes this possible. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been involved in the drafting of this law since the beginning, we have also supported the adoption and recording of this rule into the Slovenian Constitution and, at the same time, we have committed ourselves to being constructive in the drafting of the implementing law that will make these rules. Unfortunately, this year and a half, almost in the good year available for this, did not do what we wrote down in the constitution to do in six months. I would not look for reasons why this has not been done, but it is crucial that Slovenian policy is realistic and in this area also starts to act responsibly. Part of this step is to adopt a law in the first reading, on the basis of which the heads must be put together and to finalise the work that has been started. That is why I confirm what we have also said in the position of the Group of Members that in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party we will unitedly support this draft law in the first reading, says the implementing law on the fiscal rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u14	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u15	We will not support the social democrats of the proposed law because it in fact sets stricter criteria than those undertaken by Slovenia at the time of the signing of the fiscal pact. By adopting such a law, Slovenia would further restrict its possibilities, commit itself to solving its public financial problems in a smart way. And what is a smart way to address the public finances challenges ahead of us – economic growth and employment growth. It is only this week that we have some serious new warnings from the European environment. Representatives of the International Monetary Fund argue that further exacerbating the issue of debt by the countries and strict rules of the European Union in resolving the deficit would further exacerbate the recession and weaken economic growth. European Socialists have made it clear this week, conditional on the support of Jean-Claude Juncker as the possible head of the European Commission, that they expect the European Commission to release somewhat high expectations for countries affected by high deficits. Moreover, Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Economy Sigmar Gabriel in the German Government announced this week that debt, debt creation and debt growth must be prevented, but not at the expense of reduced economic growth, which can only lead to new jobs. At a time when we are used to telling the worst about Slovenia, when we see in the media space that the only smart alternative is to get out of the country, we should also note the good news. And the good news of this time is that Slovenia is recording economic growth. Slovenia is reducing unemployment. In the last six months, with record numbers of 130 thousand unemployed, we've come to 117 thousand and 800 unemployed. So between us, 12,000 unemployed are less. This gave 7 000 young people a chance in the labour market in a few months because of targeted measures to recruit young people. This, respected and respected, is good news. And what Slovenia needs today is to continue and promote economic growth, not to limit its ability to stimulate economic growth in a smart way by rules that overly exacerbate its potential – we do not need it. Yes, a consensus is needed on the implementing law for fiscal rule, but in a smart way that will increase these possibilities and not make them worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u16	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? There are many of you, so I suggest we make a statement to explain to the voice that there will be no mistakes. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We were obliged to adopt a fiscal rule law by the end of November 2013. This commitment was adopted in May 2013. Today, eight months after the deadline, we wonder whether we would adopt this fiscal rule or not. Do you have a feeling we're a serious choir? 117 thousand people – we should ask ourselves otherwise. 117 thousand people in this country are unemployed, and 200,000 pensioners, according to Ambassador DeSUS, live below the poverty line. This is due to spending too much and creating too little. And the fiscal rule is nothing but a protector, but a clear commitment to the law, that it is no longer possible to continue the wild dance, to waste the public sector if the economy does not create. And that from direction to division must be turned into direction to creation. That's all the fiscal rule says. Not by words, people, by acts of men, we prove how serious we are. Here is now the opportunity to vote and to show by action that for Slovenia, it is for us to be retired, for students, for students and so on, because balancing public finances is a condition for us to meet all these obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u18	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. He's quitting. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. So, as we have already said, and in the opinion of the Group of Members on this point and how we will vote on this point, I am interested to mention that, since several mentions are made of the names of European statesmen and so on, it is certainly necessary to mention in the first place the socialist, a member of the SDP or then German Chancellor Schröder. By means of a programme to revive the German economy, and in particular by measures to consolidate public finances, it led or prepared Germany not to feel the crisis in any practical way, if not a bit of a caricature, to say little in a wrap. But certainly the German economy of the crisis did not feel the same way as some other countries do. This is, of course, a good example of how to behave even in times when public finances are not in good condition. In the SLS yesterday, we offered to all parties fighting to become parliamentary parties, and to those we already have, a commitment on state ownership and we named it Declaration 5, which includes one of the issues of public finance regulation and the enforcement of the fiscal rule in five points. It means a commitment to all those who will or will co-create Slovenian policy further to commit ourselves, at which points, of course, we will allow this country to move forward in development. That's why I'm going to support this at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u20	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. We should not trust the Left in the management of public finances and the right not in personal freedom, so it is right that we have both entered into the Constitution and have also committed ourselves to enacting an implementing law within six months. The government has been working on this; unfortunately, it has not finished its work, but we now have before us an emissary law based both on Schuštersičev and on Chufer's proposal and does not deviate significantly from both. Neither the left nor the right policy of managing public finances is real. The right policy is the reason for public finances policy, based on the written rule in the Constitution, which we have adopted with a two-thirds majority, and it is also right for this implementing law to be adopted by a two-thirds majority. This implementing law is so much more needed at the moment, because we have a lot of money in the state's accounts and in the state banks' accounts that generates great appetites. Appetizers disguised as socialist beautiful words. That is why I will support this implementing law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u22	Thank you. We're voting on the law. There are 73 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 24. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u23	Your Honor! First of all, thank you very much to all those who have announced support for this law, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members we will support the law. The law was placed on the parliamentary benches because there was no delay in the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, the last hydroelectric power plant in the lower-Sava hydroelectric power plant. All those who know this project and the situation in this project are aware that the project would have stopped if it had not been for this law, since the existing law that this proposal builds assumes that infrastructure arrangements or accumulation pool are financed by the Climate Fund. The money of the Climate Fund, about €10 million, has been dedicated by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment for other purposes, although it is the only source for financing infrastructure on the bottom of the Sava. This €10 million was decided by the Government, or by the Ministry in particular, to be allocated to the Eco Fund for the financing of energy buildings, as well as for the purchase of buses in Ljubljana and Maribor, as well as for some other purposes. In short, there was no money for the Savoy below. And since the energy works are being built and construction on the infrastructure works would be stopped if the water fund was not provided during the transitional period of two years, economic damage would be caused. So, I am sorry that we have to resolve the matter so that the Government has not come with this law. So, this law was the law of departure, and I believe that we will do a good job with this solution. I am also disappointed that there were no government representatives here yesterday when we had a substantive debate on this law. The government has no position on this marriage. We have heard from the home labour body that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment opposes the law, the ministry responsible for energy, this law supports and the government does not really know. I think that's relatively bad given that this project is happening, that the power plant is already being built, not only is it being planned, this power plant is already being built. A few million euros has already been invested by the company in the construction pit and in preparation for construction. So if the accumulation pool is not built simultaneously, there may be major economic damage. It is important that the accumulation pool should also be built at the same time as the renovation of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. If that's not done, there's another 18-month delay. Your Honor, I ask for your support. Otherwise, I believe you will press a button like the one you announced yesterday in the views of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u24	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u25	The project for the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the lower Sava has been under way since the end of the 1990s, operationally in this century, and three hydroelectric power plants have already been successfully built behind us, the fourth is in construction and one part of the investment is also this infrastructure part, which is dedicated mainly to the anti-floating protection of Posavi. So far, we can thank Sevnica for being anti-floatingly protected, to a large extent as well as Krška, and with the project of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, the most flood-proof safety is ensured when the river Krka and the Sava River meet, where you could see the terrible scenes from the Krka village area and the like in the past years of the year. The source, the water fund, is a source in which approximately €40 million is collected annually, and a good €30.32 million is provided by energy. Also, the concessions paid from these buildings, which are now being built, of course, energy companies produce green electricity first, each hydropower plant represents 1% of Slovenian renewable energy supply. On the other hand, the concession fees and the water fund also reimburse these duties, which are now being invested in flood protection for 40 to 50 years. This investment is also very important because it is fully implemented with Slovenian knowledge. It is performed by Slovenian projects, Slovenian machinery building, Slovenian construction operation. The only part to be imported is the generator in this power plant, representing about 15% of the total investment. This is one of the best possible public facilities, with which we are also creating a start-up economy. Behind us are three projects, which have been carried out well in time, even in the financial framework, so I think that this lack of resources, which is now due to the lower inflows to the climate fund and also other uses of this climate fund – simply needs to be ensured for these two years, and at this time also a suitable long-term resource is found for this investment to be carried out to the end, according to Mokrice hydropower plant. It is not insignificant to say that, at the time that I was myself Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, we started activities to obtain EUR 70 million of credit from the European Investment Bank. Last year's loan was granted, and the fact that we now make this investment is releasing this loan, which we have less than 2% interest rate and 20 years with a five- or six-year moratorium. This is an important project; the project that we continue this project in the lower Sava, and I hope that we will come to the Central Sava and also to Mura as soon as possible, and that this cycle [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in Slovenia we end this way. [[…]] That is why I myself, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, announce my support for this law and also ask for the support of all other colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u26	Thank you. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? On behalf of the Group Alliance Alenka Bratušek, Ms Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Yes, we will also support this law in the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek. There's been a lot of talk about why. I would only add that the law was created years ago, by three LDS Members, Mr Ašič, Mr Janc and Mr Anderlič, and some of the most visible members of our party participated in the writing of this law, and we still believe that this project needs to be completed. The law originally provided for completion in twelve years. In the meantime, both of them had little leverage in putting into space, in providing funding for the infrastructure work, and so it all went back four years, but it would be even more so if we did not allow this extension of funding for the next two years. Not for those who know this, but for those who may be watching us, I would remind you that the water fund was created simultaneously with this law and that it is not filled from the budget, as it may be wrong for any of the listeners or viewers of thought, but is filled from already built and functioning hydropower plants on all Slovenian rivers. So, not only in Posavje, but also. However, it is true that most of the funds from this fund are received by Posavje, but for the reasons already stated, this is not bad. In this way Posavius successfully faced the flood problem. There is the construction of the necessary infrastructure, the groundwater level is under control and, last but not least, this project, once completed, will be the second largest source of water fund replenishment in the future. Thus, in view of all that has been said and given that our Prime Minister, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, opened the infrastructure at the Brežice hydroelectric power plant two months ago, we will support this law in the Alliance's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u28	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary groups, we have concluded our explanations of vote. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor in his personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u29	The construction of a chain of hydroelectric power plants on Sava is extremely important and I absolutely respect the ambition of the applicants to speed up and finance the project in Brežica by adopting this law. However, the Moroccan Members have for a number of years – and it is correct to point out that, of all of us, Mr Janez Ribič has been the most active on this issue – we point out that the allocation of funds from the water fund has been unjust. The largest water fund financier is Drava Power Plants. The Drava basin is, in fact, highly deprived of the privileges of the Sava basin in the use of water funds. You'll say yes, perhaps, but you don't need it on Drava. That's not true! A year and a half ago, the places near Drava were hit by catastrophic floods, the last red alarm, caused economic and human damage, which showed that there was a need to react and flood safety on the Drava River. And when we talk about these funds, I would like to vote in favour, but because this law continues unbalanced funding from the water fund, with Drava again neglecting, as in the matter of the other situation of Drava power plants in Slovenian energy, but in this case I cannot support it. I stress that Minister Bogovic and current Minister of the Jews have also concluded the story of the use of cohesion for flood safety along the Drava River. Tens of millions are now successful in strengthening flood security, but that is not enough. Flood security along the Drava River needs to be remedied as a matter of urgency for the needs of the people and for the protection of their property. That's why I think the solution you're proposing is criminal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u31	Thank you very much. It is evident that it is a pre-election chill that everyone is performing, how to do for his district and so on, from Andrej, France, now Matthew and so on, now someone else will come forward. One thing I'm going to say is, I'm going to support, absolutely, this marriage, not because Andrej Vizjak himself put it into the signature of France, and so on, if we've written one law together three years ago, but because it's a pre-election cold, I understand that, and I want all my colleagues to be elected. In Slovenia, however, we need to agree on something when we make major investments such as TES, such as hydroelectric plants, as will be, hopefully the second track, as I hope it will be, I do not know what the third development axis will be. For God's sake, let us, before we sign the first contract, find funding sources that will monitor the investment from the first to the last day, and monitor the investments so that some will not be fed in between, one way or another, that there will be no obvious that they are too much in Sevnica and Krske Grad. I invite everyone to come and see what and how it's built out of this money. This is how I will support this law, because I know that this will continue because they have already convened an extraordinary meeting in Posavia, because there will be a promotion in this, thank God, if any Member is elected more, but it is important that we complete the investment, which in particular gives energy self-sustainment to this country and another, counter-flooding security for one part of Slovenia. And I hope we can save Drava someday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u33	I will tell the leader of the Matjaž Han Group that I am not running and that I am not speaking because I would be doing the EPP, like many of those who have spoken here today. Remember, though, when the flood on Drava again — who will be responsible? Why, when the waters and catch them on other watercourses, then remember how you voted and how we divided the water fund. Ladies and gentlemen, for the local infrastructure of the Brežice hydroelectric power plant we will give from the water fund, excuse me, 131 million from the climate fund, and we will give 25 million from the climate fund. When we talk about investments, then we can say that investment has increased enormously when we talk about it. For example, Bosniak was built for 91 million, as planned. Blanca – planned 80 million, built 132, Krško 86 million – 173 million, Brežice 84 million, built for 276 million. Infrastructure facilities are twice, three times, four times higher than the energy facilities themselves. All energy facilities at the bottom of the Sava are actually manageable. However, local infrastructure is very expensive. There, ladies and gentlemen, we work 2,000 500 meters of roads, we work pools, we work stands, we do everything else, of course. That is why I say, it is wrong – I support the construction of power plants on the lower Sava, I support that investment programmes are also made, but not in this way, ladies and gentlemen, that we take all the money available to manage watercourses across Slovenia. When you vote for it, remember who's responsible for the floods on Drava, if you want, and on other watercourses, not to mention them. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u34	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u35	Thank you very much. As a member of the National Assembly myself, I have been working for the entire period to support projects that work for the good of the development of the Republic of Slovenia. Despite the fact that the area of the lower Sava is not in the White landscape, but is in Posav, I certainly support a project that needs to be completed. I think the people of Posavia are expecting such a decision by the National Assembly to be for the benefit of the people. Today in Posavje, tomorrow in Savinja-Shaleska valley, the morning in White Krajina, when in Koroška, Primorska and so on all the way to Pomurje. So, I will support this change of law, and I wish for the future, whatever government will, that certain issues that have also been raised from our discussions, that is also related to the transparency of resources, may sometimes be even more appropriate in the future, that it will not then be a dilemma, why any government or any call by the national assembly has taken such a decision and such a decision. People at the bottom of the Savi deserve this project to be completed and the entire infrastructure is completed. I'll support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u36	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u37	Dearly beloved, unlike some other energy projects, this energy project had a completely closed financial structure. The water fund, as Mrs Kociper said, was established only to finance the infrastructure on the lower Sava. The 2002 decision of the Government of Anton Ropa says that the Water Fund will be prioritized to finance infrastructure on the lower Sava. Those who do not know, but do not know and do not know, are respected that at the start of this project no financial source has been provided for the financing of infrastructure. More. The funded infrastructure through power plants provides a re-source for the construction of infrastructure, as concessional benefits from hydropower plants, because also hydroelectric water reimbursements are a dedicated source for financing water infrastructure, contrary to block 6, respected, which has never had a closed financial structure, and not yet today. So that's one thing. It's the other thing. The investment is carried out within the planned framework and it is true that the part is increased due in particular to the requirements of the Ministry of the Environment due to substitute habitats and unfortunate many other arrangements resulting from the Ministry's requirements, but not to any local or other and most resources are allocated to water infrastructure, to water infrastructure, to regulate watercourses. [[…]] And another thing, the project doesn't mean, of course, in an energy sense, a lot. This is a state project, it is not Vision's local project, it is a national project that all governments put into their programmes. This is an important flood project that will protect Posavje from floods. This is an important project for the conservation of groundwater in the Krko-Brežiške field, an important project for the development of agriculture as it allows irrigation in this part. In short, and not least, it is the start-up of the Slovenian economy, which can work at it, especially the local one. So, Your Honor, I will support this law for all these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u38	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't have a pre-election fever either, because I'm not running for office, so my debate is not pre-electional, but I think that those who have concerns about supporting this law can quickly draft a law on the conditions for exploiting Drava's energy potential, and in a week or 14 days at an extraordinary session, we adopt such a law. In fact, why? We're talking about 100, 200 million, we're in debt in one year for 10 billion. If we allocate 200 million for the next 10 billion to exploit Drava's energy potential, of course we will do the most. Therefore, I call on Mr Frangež to prepare the law quickly, to put it into procedure, to move from words to actions, from words to words cannot be lived. I will uphold the law, and even if I came about Drava, of course I would support him. And I hope he comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u40	Havela. So we are on the ground of vote and Mr Tomaž Lisec is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u41	Thank you. Why are we even discussing this marriage? Because apparently the government or the competent ministry did not do its job. Moreover, the competent ministry has a negative view of the law and the government has no opinion at all. First, about the financials. This year, €20 million will remain in the water fund. I therefore call on all ministers or Members from a particular environment to prepare projects, not to wish for them, to prepare projects, and I believe that we will, or will, support those projects. But the fact is, the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of Savi will be completed before more money will be available for other matters. We may not mention enough that it is an infrastructure project at a time when infrastructure projects stop when construction is out of work. This is a renewable energy source, a small proportion, but those who accompany little European reports on environmental issues know that little progress has also been made. So antipot projects a la TES 6. Thirdly, it is a flood protection that is also very necessary in Posavje. I come from Sevnica and I know what my colleague Franci Bogovic experienced in Krske, and I know what my colleague Andrej Vizjak experienced in Brežice when we were saved by the Sevničians because of two hydro power plants. Fourthly, it is watercourses, and Sava has watercourses, not just Drava and other rivers, but also watercourses. Fifth, the possibility of irrigation in agriculture, the development of tourism; also in Posavje we are very dependent on agriculture and we want the development of tourism. In short, more than a few reasons to support the marriage. Once again, I call on all those who talk about water projects in their areas: make projects, we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u42	Havela to you, too. Mr. Franz Bogovich will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u43	Flood protection is certainly one of the first priorities to be implemented in Slovenia. One year I was a minister and at that time we identified 61 flood areas, evaluated, over 600 to 800 million is an indicative assessment, because it is very difficult to continue to accurately assess the value of these projects. The European Investment Bank supports this. This year – now continues, as Mr Frangež said – we have begun and continued anti-floating protection in Savinja from Light to Celje, Vojnik, Laško, as well as what Mr Ribič warned – we see that successfully, two mandates – including the area of Duplek and that end where the floods were severe. Let us be aware that in one harmful case when Drava flooded, there was 180 million euros in damage. But here we are talking about these tens of millions that we are investing in flood protection so that this will no longer happen. When there were so many words about three hydro power plants. Some 130 million were protected from Vrhove to Krske. Now the bigger project is because it is an accumulation, where you also need to raise water 10 meters high, because it is also about irrigation of the Krske field and similar things, so this last accumulation dam, which must have a volume for full-time operation, is so much bigger. When we talk about these tens or hundreds of millions, 130 million is less than 10% of the company's thermal power plant. From this city, I say once again that giant coal needs to be mined as well. In such subjects, you would expect a slightly wider view than anyone in your valley. We can do that to others. After all, TES may also close if the money comes from the Posav energy pool and the assistance is available. Let us be colleagues and think about Slovenia and not all about our pond.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u44	Thank you. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 6. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? Mr Richard Braniselj has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u45	Thank you very much. What do we decide today? If we ask all the bankers of this world whether they support this matter or not, no. All the bankers of this world would be unconscious because it is a matter of interfering with the foundations of banking, which is bank secrecy. The Bank of Slovenia, the European Central Bank, the Banking Union and so on are also comprehensible from this title. However, banking secrecy in the world is no longer absolute and must no longer be absolute. All countries finance failed banks and have the right of taxpayers to know what and to whom they repay loans. I therefore propose that we support this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u46	Thank you. Can we make a decision about the law? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In your own name? Darko Jazbec has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I have listened very carefully to the debate here. Then my findings are as follows. If Banka Slovenije is against, the ECB is not inclined, the Association of Banks of Slovenia is not inclined: if it is a derogation from the system regime under the Banking Act and if the principle of trust is violated and thus reduced competitiveness, then in fact, if I voted in favour, I would vote against the profession. Working against the profession means doing non-professional work, and it's probably not right for the country. I was wondering what it would be like to work non-professionally. So, if it were an element of likeness or if, on the basis of some bad news from the past, an attack is the best defense. Nor was I convinced by the most often heard argument in the debate that taxpayers have the right to know what they have paid. The health contribution is also a compulsory tax, and this does not mean that we all have the right now to know all the diagnosis of all patients. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u48	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Preseknik has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I can, on behalf of the Group of Members or on my own behalf. I will explain it on my behalf, but this will certainly be the vote of the entire parliamentary group. I think we respect banking secrecy. This is as important as what my colleague said before me – the confidentiality of personal data in the field of health. However, we must be aware that these are so-called bad loans that have not been transferred to a bad bank, and that is the problem. It is not about credits that are normal, that are normally repaid, that are free from any problems, but about those things that are bad — the word itself tells us where they belong. We talked a lot about this when we adopted the previous amendment of the Law a few months ago. The proposal with the amendment, which was also with our signature, spoke of a similar solution or the same solution, but apparently, then as opposition Members, we did not get this opportunity to see that this too should be introduced into this change of law. Therefore, regardless of who is proposing now, who is not, we will gladly support this proposal, and so will I personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u50	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this case, the concept of banking secrecy should be replaced by the concept of banking. In fact, credits that have been leased with insurance and have been leased for fair purposes for production and other activities are non-problemsome and can be seen by everyone. I hired a loan myself for the company or my company hired it, this loan is a bad loan and everyone can watch it, there is no need to hide anything under any bank secrecy because the loan was used for the purpose for which it was hired. But if someone rented a 100-million-dollar loan and he didn't invest money in manufacturing, in machines, in the lobby, but in a tax-friendly environment, in a secret account abroad, and now this loan didn't go to a bad bank, but he stayed at the bank, and then this man and these people have to be scared. You see, today we are not talking about anything but that all people and all businesses must be in the same position. And this law, this amendment of the law makes it possible, or by adopting this amendment of the law, all businesses and all people will be in the same position. That is why I will vote for this and sincerely hope that the new law will also be adopted, in the spirit of what we say we are for a just and fair Slovenia. This law allows for a just and fair Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this amendment of the Public Information Access Act; I will support both my fellow Members. In fact, we have already done the first exercise, but unsuccessfully, in the third reading, when we discussed the amendment of the law. At that time, New Slovenia, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party tabled an amendment in the third reading and was not accepted. We are now repeating this exercise and it looks like we are going to do this exercise successfully. Of course, bank secrecy is the basic postulate of banking, but bank hole drills are not bankers. I will confirm this amendment of the law, I will vote in favour, also and especially because I am required by taxpayers, citizens and citizens of this country. Tax secrecy is also the basic postulate of a country's tax system. But in the National Assembly we passed a law to publish taxpayers under specific criteria on the website. Did the world collapse? No, it's not. What happened? There's more tax on the state. These are the effects, and I expect that there will also be good effects for the country if this amendment of the law is fully enforced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u54	Thank you, too. Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. And I will absolutely support this law. Unfortunately, this is one of the only ways to do it in some way with control that neither Banka Slovenije nor the authorities that supervise and revise the business in banks to enable people, the media and so on to monitor and see for ourselves what is going on in these banks. The only instrument, the only way is transparency and the publicity of some of the data, and that's the data we're going to pay for; the citizens will be billed. I'm not talking about everyone. I'm talking about those who haven't been returned. This has cost us about €10 billion so far, when it has simply speculated and increased this bank hole without any supervision, and some still want to hide in this public data and work and frown on this money as it has so far. One more time: I'll back you up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u56	Thank you. We're voting on the law. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 41 votes against 30. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the 2013 Report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a decision, so we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Firstly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the 2013 Report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services. Secondly, the National Assembly supports the Commission's efforts to control the intelligence and security services referred to in its findings and views and calls on the Government to implement them as soon as possible with the competent services. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 17. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 19 June 2014. We move on to Article 1 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek to Article 1. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, we have already said in the debate that we are proposing, namely the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian People's Party Group, that the amendment written by the Ministry of Finance and tabled by the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek does not actually bring any new added value. Somehow, then, in the debate that I followed, we all agreed, and therefore, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, I declare that we will reject this amendment and also ask the other colleagues and colleagues not to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u58	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u59	As my colleague Jože said, if this amendment is accepted, we have complications in the very process of accepting them and we need to decide again at the new meeting. We are running out of time, so we are afraid that this law could remain on the sidelines, but we all agreed that the law that simplifies small businesses is a real espam, micro-entrepreneurs, with a flat-rate decision something that is, after all, a great expectation of entrepreneurship, and also, as far as I understand it so far, a common commitment of us who are here in the National Assembly to carry out such a procedure. Furthermore, the Income Act will need to be corrected, the two numbers from 50 to 100 000 will also be aligned in that law, and if such a correction as is now required with the amendment, I propose that we decide and that this correction be carried out in parallel if necessary in the new composition. However, as has been found, it is likely that this lack of clarity as to what it means to be employed in espionage is quite clearly reflected already in the basic version of the law, so this amendment does not have to be adopted. Not because they would be against the amendment proposed by the Government, but because in the process this could prevent the adoption of the necessary law in this mandate. Nor will we support this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party solely for the reason that, in this Parliament's mandate, it is said that the law is still fully adopted in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u60	Thank you. We're voting on the amendment. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 38. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendment, and I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the proposal for a law.In the second reading of the amendment to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision about the law? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u61	Thank you again, Mr. President. I will be brief, the New Slovenia Group as co-proposer of this law will support the amendment of the Income Act. It is a matter of law, colleagues and colleagues, and I think that at the time when our mandate calls out that it is right to do something good for a small economy, which represents almost 99% of the economy in Slovenia. I suggest we support this law and we will not regret it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u62	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u63	Let us also, as co-proposers, repeat this appeal that for a small economy, it is called micro and small businesses and espouses, take this step in the right direction and allow for a flat-rate decision; it is said that less red tape, less paper dealing, but more work for Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. I'm asking for your support in this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u64	Thank you. We're voting on the law. 72 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 11. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of the Income of Legal Persons under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We move on to Article 1 and decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek to Article 1. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, in fact, the story is similar to that of the previous Income Act. Of course, all respect for concern, to improve the text of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, the amendments were written by the Ministry of Finance, as they themselves said, but the proponents, namely the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party, find that there is no significant added value, so we have a negative view of this amendment. I propose, Mr President, if I may, on behalf of rationality, also invite colleagues and colleagues to reject the amendment to Article 1 as well as the amendment to Article 3, then I will no longer speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u66	Thank you. Calling is not a permit. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. We vote on the amendment to Article 1. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 36. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 3 and decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek to Article 3. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment to Article 3. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 36. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments, and thus I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. So it's a twin, a legislative twin, a pauper, a small economy. We will, of course, support this law as co-proposers with the Slovenian People's Party. We cannot support the bill, we cannot support it ourselves, so we expect the support of the wider auditorium, and let's say that we Members have done something good for the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u68	Thank you. We're voting on the law. Excuse me? Explanation of voice, in your own name. Mr. Darko Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. It's a twin bill, and I have a really big dilemma here in person, because if we press for it, we're creating some inequality before the law. In practice, I'm going to explain the case. If a gardener is employed in a public office and he earns 50 000 euros gross and another in a second public office as outsourcing, the same 50 000 euros gross, the difference in their pocket is almost 10,000 euros. So the inequality before the law is also unconstitutional. The other thing is, the country gets less. It is true that at the time of Alenka Bratusek this country is in a much better condition, all the indicators point to recovery, but it is not so good that it is possible to lower taxes just now. Third, what I'm trying to say is not a real lump. They have a real lump sum in Austria, for example, where it's not linked to the amount of income. This is actually about lowering taxes. So, I'm in the dilemma of, if I vote in favour, then I have more in my pocket and I get maybe some voice from a potential voter, but if I vote against it, it's good for the country and equality before the law. Now we just have to ask ourselves, what are we politicians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u70	Thank you. Can we vote? We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 11. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting on the law. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on Constitutional Aspects of the Enforcement of Decision U-I-114/11 of 9. 6. 2011, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 47/2011, concerning the municipality of Ankaran. No amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal for a declaration, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was repeatedly violated by a decision of the Constitutional Court establishing the municipality of Ankaran. And this action will certainly go back to constitutional history as an example that should never have happened and should never have happened. With the adoption of the declaration, Members and Members can prove that we are talking about the principle of the sharing of power, the rule of law and democratic human power. Above all, it is a constitution which gives the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia the only right and duty in the country to adopt and adopt laws and establish municipalities. That is why I expect us to support the declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u72	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of National Communities, Mr Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The Italian National Community has been opposed to the fragmentation of Kopra since the beginning of 1994, i.e. for 20 years. In doing so, not only did we have in mind our legitimate interests, but the interests of the wider community, and especially the backs, whose developmental options are, of course, much better if it develops in a strong and comprehensive municipal municipality. As everywhere in the Mediterranean area, the hinterland is closely connected to coastal towns since the time came. For centuries and centuries it has been this way, and this marks the culture of the place. Of course, this element and this aspect is an integral part of the construction of a harmonious and successful local self-government, which is provided for in all conventions and which is also present in our legislation and in our approach to this problem. Yesterday we were able to hear something about how all of this came about and developed in contravention of the then applicable legislation and, contrary to the legislation currently in force. There are no criteria that would be none of the criteria that existed and that exist are met for the congregation of Ankaran. No one! The Constitutional Court says that the promises made by the initiators regarding the situation of the Italians in the Ankaran area are sufficient. That's not even what this is about. It's not possible there. In the area of Ankara, rights cannot be exercised and the situation of the national community cannot be cared for. That's the problem. So, what's this all about? It's about creating an ethnically clean enclave in the middle of a national mixed area. For nothing else! [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] In short, it is an extremely dangerous precedent, an extremely dangerous precedent, which can mean crushing the Coast to the practitioners of speculative interests: land speculation, money from Luke There are no other reasons. [[…]] It seems to us like some terrible warning against Stalinism. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u74	Thank you. We're voting. No! No! I'm sorry. In his own name, mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A while ago, I introduced a law to regulate this area. However, since the assessment of those affected by the declaration was, of course, easier and more effective to resolve the matter, I withdrew the law. I fully support the Declaration, and the contention that the National Assembly is interfering with the competence of the Constitutional Court is not respected. In fact, why not in my opinion? The Constitutional Court has already called on the National Assembly to regulate this area in 2007 and the Constitutional Court has called on the National Assembly to regulate this area by law. However, since two references to the National Assembly have expired and nothing has happened, the Constitutional Court has only intervened because the National Assembly has done nothing in this regard. That was the reason for the Constitutional Court's intervention. Therefore, by today's adoption of the declaration, the National Assembly will make its constitutional duty and right to adopt appropriate decisions with regard to the establishment of municipalities and the abolition of municipalities. The National Assembly alone is responsible for this, and the Constitutional Court has also imposed this on the National Assembly a long time ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u76	Thank you. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Jakob Presječnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This point or this matter is indeed a farce in many years, and the fact is that the Constitutional Court cut off some sort of Gordy knot — what I said yesterday. The fact is also that this declaration or any declaration under our Rules of Procedure is not a binding document, I do not think for any one, and therefore I do not see why we accept this declaration at all, which it will serve. I think that what I said yesterday that you, as President of the National Assembly, have a duty in accordance with your responsibilities and duties – I think that even though the elections will be held, I don't know when to call, I don't have those deadlines now, but you or your successor – I think that you – will call local elections. I think that this is a requirement of legislation whether this declaration would have been adopted or not. Because, as it is said, strange things have been happening in this regard, strange votes. The Constitutional Court, as it was said, cut it the way it cut it. I don't know what the declaration brings, I don't think it just brings anything. That is why I will vote against this declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u78	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u79	Thank you very much. So if we include an eccentric and persistent disregard for bilingualism, as well as persistent neglect, destruction and acquisition of the cultural heritage of the place, then we get the image of European Slovenia where the demands of the rule of law do not apply – not only in this case, but today the head of the opposition will go to prison without material evidence, for example, without one material proof, for example [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] But it's just one of the cases from the bank robbery and so on and so on. [[…]] Laugh, yeah! So we get this image. Certainly, the rule of law does not apply to us, given how things work. Except that there is a Member in the National Assembly or a Member of the State or any other Member elected by members of the national community, which ultimately just means an excuse for the unhappiness we are experiencing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u80	Thank you. Can we decide on a supplementary proposal for a declaration? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 17. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the updated proposal for a declaration has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 1st item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats is given by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Friends and colleagues, hello! I ask you to support this law, which was created as a law of the Members. It represents a second step in the next set of many steps that will have to be taken in order to create a supportive environment for the development of social entrepreneurship. Indeed, it is a particular form of entrepreneurship, a business in the public interest, which is demonstrated by the fact that the activity that the company urgently needs is carried out, not with a view to creating a profit, and thus makes it possible to employ. Therefore, I ask you to do just as you did with the support of the Social Entrepreneurship Act, do so unanimously now and give a good passenger to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-06-20-SDZ6-Izredna-70.ana.u82	Thank you, too. We're voting on the law. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned A-point 1 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Sector Wage System Act by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled of 20. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We move on to Article 6 and decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek to Article 6. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. I note that, in the second reading, the National Assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 6 of the amended Law and I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. I find that there are no notations to the debate or to the word. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to the conclusion of the legislative procedure for a proposal for a law that was not the basis for the drafting of an amended proposal for a law. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, second reading, EPA 1997-VI submitted to the National Assembly by a member of mag. Ivan Vogrin, not suitable for further consideration. Can we decide this decision? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. It's on man-loving matters. Under the heading, we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the fifth indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 103rd session. 6. 2014 adopted a decision amending the decision setting out the number of seats of members of the working groups of the National Assembly and determining the groups of Members belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In accordance with the decision taken, the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek informed the candidates for president or vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly in which amendments had taken place. You have received the proposal for a decision. I ask if a representative of which delegation would like to speak on this decision? I guess not. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I ask if any of the Members and Members would like a word? I guess not. I conclude the debate and take a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission, the President of the Committee on the Economy, the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Vice-President of the Committee on Justice and the President of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Under point b, we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. In accordance with the decision adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 103rd meeting, on 17 June 2014, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek presented a proposal for a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. You have received the proposal for a decision. I'm asking if anyone would like a word on behalf of the MPs? He doesn't want to. I conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I'm asking if anyone wants a word in their own name? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be taken if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Under point c, we are moving on to the report to confirm the election of Members and Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. Under this item, the assembly will consider two proposals for conclusions submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission and published on the e-club. I'm asking if the representative of the Mandate-Electorial Commission would like a word. He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the Mandate-Electorial Commission? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? You don't want to. I hereby conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Do any of the Members and Members want a word? He doesn't want to. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First of all, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, pursuant to Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament and Article 112 of the Law on Elections of Members to the European Parliament and Article 112 of the People's Parliament: The election of the following Members and Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament shall be confirmed: Franc Bogovič, born on 2 February 1963, resident Koprivnica 39a Krško – candidate list: New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party; Tanja Fajon, born on 9 May 1971, resident Novo Polje C VII/31 Ljubljana Field – candidate list: Social Democrats and European Socialist Party; Aloz Peterle, born 5. Seven. 1948, residing in Voivodna 3a, Ljubljana – candidate list: Nova Slovenija and Slovenian People's Party; Dr. Igor Soltes, born 22. 8. 1964, living in Viška cesta 23, Ljubljana – list of candidates Verjam! List of Dr. Igor Soltes; Patricia Schulin, born 25. 11. 1965, residential Cankareva street 48, Nova Gorica – candidate list: Slovenian Democratic Party – SDS; Romana Tomc, born 2. 11. 1965, resident on the Dolenjska railway 144, Ljubljana – candidate list: Slovenian Democratic Party – SDS; Ivo Wygl, born 3. 3. 1943, residing on the Dolomite Regiment 43, Log-Dragomer – List of DeSUS candidates – Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons; Dr. Milan Zver, born 25. 5. 1962, residing in Janežovski Vrh 37, Janežovski Vrh, candidate list: Slovenian Democratic Party – SDS. We're voting. 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I will take the decision to inform the President of the European Parliament. Since, in accordance with the second Article of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, a Member of the European Parliament cannot be a Member of the National Assembly, the Mandate-Making Commission shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 9 of the Law on Members relating to Article 2 of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision shall be taken: The function of a Member in the European Parliament shall be deemed to be incompatible with the function of a Member of the National Assembly and therefore to Ambassador of France Bogovic and Ambassadors Romani Tomc, on the date of the confirmation of the mandate of a Member or Member of the European Parliament, the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly shall be terminated. On the basis of Article 17 of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, I will ask the National Elections Commission to inform the National Assembly, which candidate from the list of candidates becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of Members who leave their term of office. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 70th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and goodbye.
