ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 60th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 and the first paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Janja Klasinc, mag. Barbara Žgajner, Mr Andrej Cuz, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Robert Hrovat, Mr Bojan Starman, Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Jože Veliki from 15:00 onward, Mr Dragutin Mate, mag. Matthew Tonin from 16:00 on and Mr. Joseph Horvat from 15:00 on. I invited representatives of the government to the meeting, and I welcome all those present. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 60th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 4 April 2014, with a reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 60th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. First it's under a1. Point Note by the President of the Government that the role of Minister of Health instead of Dr Alenka Trop Skaza will be temporarily performed by mag. Alenka Bratusek. The President of the Magnificent Government. On 13 April 2014, Alenka Bratušek informed the National Assembly that she would be acting as Minister of Health instead of Dr Alenka Trop Skaza, who resigned from her post. You have received a notice from the President of the Government. In this regard, I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has noted that the role of Minister of Health, instead of Dr Alenka Trop Skaza, who has been suspended as Minister of State as a result of her resignation, will be temporarily performed by mag. Alenka Bratusek. That concludes this point. We move on to item a, to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the selection committee to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of Vice-Presidents of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome. The Anti-Corruption Commission has been one of the institutions that, in recent months as well as in recent years, has fuelled the wider and narrower political public. With the departure of the KPK Senate, a very unfortunate process of electing a new Senate began. We've got the president, we've lost two deputies on the move. Unfortunately, the President of the KPK has decided to insist on this position, despite in some way losing all credibility, and that this institution, as such, will lose credibility in the future, and what it will do will always be in the shadow of doubt. However, when we talk about the selection committee, I am sure that the coalition has also had a unique opportunity, due to all the complications that have arisen in this regard, to take action at least in the selection of the selection committee, which will choose the suitable candidates for the two deputies. Not to use its majority power in Parliament, but in some way to make this process as transparent and transparent as possible. Since the appointment of the KPK Senate is an extremely sensitive matter, since the appointment of the KPK Senate is an even more sensitive matter, it would be necessary to include the opposition in the appointment of such a commission. Finally, I will say very directly, we are the clients of this KPK all politicians, all those sitting in this Chamber, coalition and opposition. And if there is only a sense that this Senate has chosen only one side, then we can never get rid of this feeling that the members of the Senate are also politically oriented and then this process or this method of choice can always be abused on the one hand and stress that this PKK does not decide fairly, that it does not decide as it should and that certain members of the political option are persecuted only because they are on the other. Specifically, at least two representatives from the opposition were proposed to this selection committee. Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Slavko Vesenjak from SLS. If the coalition really tried to ensure the transparency of this process, then it would have a unique opportunity to appoint one representative of the opposition in this election commission, but it appears that you still could propose to your people, through your government line, who would still look at this selection process, but you have refused this opportunity and this option. There is a bitter feeling, I think this decision was not good, it was not smart, especially if you want to build on the credibility of this institution. I think you made a mistake here, so the New Slovenia Group will not support this proposal to appoint Mojce Prelešnik to this selection committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u3	Thank you. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u4	Mr President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 44th emergency meeting, where we addressed the nominations of members for the election commission to elect candidates for Vice-Presidents of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Commission rejected the only candidate submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which we proposed as a member of the Election Commission, the leader of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jožet Tank. As the candidate of the Slovenian Democratic Party on this committee has not been confirmed, the Mandate-Election Commission has had to re-examine its call to the parliamentary groups to propose their candidates. Unfortunately, there was still a precedent before the meeting, some leaders of the parliamentary groups, namely the National Lists, the Positive Slovenia, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners and the Social Democrats, pointed out in their response to the President's invitation to the Mandate-voluntary Commission to propose their candidates, even in their letter that the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which proposed Mr Jožet Tank as a candidate for election commission, was an unrealistic candidacy and political provocation. In doing so, it must be said that the Slovenian Democratic Party has always proposed to Mr Jožet Tank, at all calls of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, when we elected a member of the Electoral Commission, both for the election of the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and for both members of the Senate. Regrettably, however, the urgent meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission took place at a time when the members of the groups were carrying out their regular activities, namely meetings of the groups of Members, at 10 a.m. Tuesdays, although it was possible to convene a meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission at some other time. Therefore, the members of the Committee on Elections of the Slovenian Democratic Party could not attend this meeting at the time, this is a meeting of 1. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the re-call, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group re-proposed candidate Jožet Tank, with candidates also being proposed by coalition parliamentary groups and the Slovenian People's Party. Given that the Mandate-Election Commission, already in the first election, although we have proposed the only candidate, has not supported this candidacy and has confirmed, once again, that candidates are being sought until a suitable candidate is found, so we cannot support the Secretary-General of the General Assembly for a Member of the Election Commission in the Slovenian Democratic Party for the Prevention of Corruption in the Commission for the selection of suitable candidates for the Vice-President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u5	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The first one gets the word mag. Matthew Tonin. He's quitting. The next debater is mag. Ivan Vogrin, prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak Here you go, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself will support Mrs Mojce's candidacy as a member of the selection committee and I will also justify why. Because it doesn't matter who's there. It doesn't matter. We have degenerated the system so that we actually have to go completely bankrupt so that we can start doing something different. See, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has been working in approximately different forms of the decade. One decade! We've made excellent progress in this time of year. In order for the country to work, we need to borrow several billion euros each year. This year, we're even looking at 7,7. And we have to raise taxes all the time. This is the first great success that this country can survive. The other thing is, we've come to the top from the bottom of the least corrupt countries in ten years. That's another big success. That means it doesn't matter who's there. And if I spoke a little sarcastically, I would say that this government must be supported, for by natural laws there is no other way. This history teaches that some state system has to go completely to the bottom to completely bankrupt – because we have produced everything – so that something new begins to be built. Why? We make a new predatory group with every law we pass. This was the case with the energy law, so we tried the real estate tax law, and fortunately the Constitutional Court stopped us and so on. We've been doing this for almost 20 years. We may not be entirely at the beginning, but already with the Property Change Act, we started this because it was a legal place. And we won't, but it doesn't matter who's there, we won't come until we're completely bankrupt. There's something else I'd like to say. See how we can perform crediblely today if we have employees in the National Assembly who have told me that they have EUR 580 to pay. Today I was in my office in Lenart Municipality and a worker who is now retired has 40 years of full-time employment, 40 years of which she worked 35 years or maybe 34 years in the economic sector, 540 Euros of pension. How can he live with that? Look, no matter who he is, let's finish this story and start over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u7	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. But get ready, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u8	Thank you very much. As far as I am concerned, this proposal for Mrs Prelešnikova to become a member of the selection committee for the Vice-Presidents of the KPK will not, of course, be supported. But let me put it this way when I explain it. After 1990, this country has established a series of institutions which have a legal position of independence. An independent position which means a state which is equal to the status of the National Assembly, equal to the status of the Government or the status of the judiciary, which means that there is no one over these institutions. Above these institutions is God and the blue sky. These institutions, in particular the KPC, which we are talking about at this point, are also particularly important because, as we know, their products, which are evident in the past period of a very questionable nature, are not essentially legal protection. In fact, there is virtually no legal remedy, and from the Court these products are judged in one way or another. A very typical case is a significant report on the wealth situation of the political parties' champions, where there was no possibility of any complaint or that complaint was rejected. On the contrary, where the KPC has found that corruption is at stake, and this is the case in the case of the appointment of the Director-General of the Prosecutor's Organisation, the court has not done anything on this subject for more than a year. He doesn't make that decision. I would like to point out in this part that, in particular, the institutions which have the so-called independent position are personally my opinion that, in order, more or less in order, they should be shut down and put into the system of governments or ministries. As long as they are in such an independent position, however, the National Assembly and all those who are involved in the appointment of their leadership should take special care. Especially are these organizations headed or led by truly trustworthy people with the widest possible political support. This did not happen in the case of the KPK. Not just that, actually. The law was amended, it was made entirely politically in 2010 and it allowed for a total of extreme political biased recruitment, which was also carried out in practice. In practice, too, because in 2010 all recruitment was transferred to the institution of the President of the Republic, which, at least the then President of the Republic, acted with extreme bias. This was demonstrated by the appointment of the previous leadership when at least two persons came to the head of this commission, clearly left politically profiled. The same story continues now that a man came to the head of the commission who had a client card on the day before his appointment to this place and apparently all procedures are ongoing so that the two Vice-Presidents of the Anti-Corruption Commission will correspond to the coalition, and in particular the Positive Slovenia within this coalition. As we have seen, procedures have been carried out in such a way that it was first appointed Mrs Župevčeva. When a client man of Positive Slovenia came to the head of the Commission with her assistance, and two of them who were not members of any parties, I am talking about alternates, these procedures are now under way, which are the subject of this agenda item. Here we have proposed a permanent leader of Mr Tank's parliamentary group and see what the coalition has written. The coalition noted that such candidacy is an unrealistic candidacy and also a political provocation. Now tell me what is the difference between the Tank, which leads the 26 Members, and Mrs Župevc or Möderndorfer, where there are two more Members in the Group of Members. They can, and our candidate is politically inconclusive and represents provocation. I don't know if you even know what you wrote down. But you wrote down something that makes you take important steps against dictatorship in this National Assembly. And that's why this candidacy doesn't have my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor to prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u10	Thank you very much. We are dealing with a not-too-important issue, but it has important political implications in the given situations and in the given situation. Partly because of this appointment in the first round and the selection of this selection committee, the President of the Supervisory Committee of the New Ljubljana Bank has already resigned with wider implications. And the political implications are also that the coalition chooses its own man reliably, although, on the basis of the fact that the law was sent to the 2011 procedure, it is envisaged in the first version that this candidate would be proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which is mostly opposition. Therefore, the proposal to elect an opposition Member would be perfectly logical. To those experts who wrote the first version of the law, it seemed perfectly logical. And the only logical thing would be to avoid shame for the country and all of these consequences, which show that the current coalition does not want to have a neutral anti-corruption commission that actually prevents corruption, but wants to have dependent people, party-defined people. As a result, we may already be afraid of what will happen in this country. See, second, which is more than obvious from these procedures, which have already been carried out, is that the current coalition is largely not trusted by the President of the Republic. It may be unusual for me to defend the President of the Republic when I am an opposition Member, but the fact is that he is trying, for once, to be the president of all citizens. In the first round, he was subjected to mines in the form of a selection of this commission. It was very much the case for the discreditation of the President of the Republic, because this coalition disturbs the fact that it is the only institution currently in a country where the coalition and these do not have a 100 % influence and control over this institution and this institution needs to be weakened. In this election, there is the exact same thought in the background. If possible, they will choose to prevent an anti-corruption fight in the future and to discredit the President of the Republic. I ask colleagues and coalition colleagues what has made the President of the Republic so terrible in the current year of his presidency that he is such a disruptive factor in this country. I know and I know what's bothering you. In your opinion, the President of the Republic should be extremely party, on the side of the current coalition and highly ideologically biased. And I admit to him that he's here trying to be neutral and president of all citizens. Now it is also an interesting situation, given what you have in Positive Slovenia. Today I expected you to sit back a little bit, that the factions within the positive coalition would be separated from the party congress, so that you could communicate more easily through the bench. It's not, but these contours are kind of visible. And now it's gonna be interesting. The deadline expired yesterday. Whether he will be appointed by the President of the Government to this committee, whether he will be a temporary ally of the President of the Republic, or whether he will be an opponent of the President of the Republic in this round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. And get ready, Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We are once again deciding who will be a member or a member of the selection committee to choose the suitable candidates for the appointment of Vice-Presidents of the Commission to prevent corruption. In the SDS, we have always proposed that this member be Mr Jože Tanko. The coalition insisted on the proposal for Mrs Melito Župevc, who was then elected and also participated in the procedures for the election of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. In this process, the Commission has been deeply embarrassed by what it has done. For a few weeks we have heard and read about how and how Mr Štefanec has been chosen. More. Immediately thereafter, the two appointed deputies resigned. Similarly, at the time of the appointment of the previous Commission, when Mr Klemenčič was elected President and Mr Rok Praprotnik, the second deputy resigned precisely because he assessed that the Commission in such a composition or Senate would not act objectively and politically impartially. And instead of learning something from this story first, which means that since the beginning of its work the Commission has been monitoring it, we will say political bias and they have behaved that way, even though they want to appear impartial, it is happening to us in a similar way. They resigned both deputies because they assessed that it would not be objective and would not work or act politically impartially with the President, who was so principled that the day before his appointment would leave his Party of Positive Slovenia. In addition to the fact that the selection commission, to which Mrs Melita Župevc was also appointed, made this choice, destroyed the magnetograms from which you could see whether Mr Štefanec was actually the most suitable candidate or whether it was sufficient that he was a member of Positive Slovenia, because Mrs Melita Župevc was aware of it and knew it. How conveniently, we will not destroy the archives after or after a few years, but destroy just against the magnetograms so that it is not possible to verify what was going on in the selection. That is why we also understand why Mr Tanko should not have been on this selection committee, because it is likely that such things would not have happened, and because we should have some information from others, not just a coalition. Since this coalition obviously does not want another such blemish, it has now read the law in more detail and has found that the legislator in 2011, by the way, at the time the legislator was also Mrs Župevičeva, thinking that the representative of the National Assembly in the election committee would not necessarily be a Member, but someone else. That's why you're proposing to Mrs. Leicester. We have again proposed to Mr Jožet Tank. On the proposal of Mrs Prelesnikov, you have allowed yourself to write that this is an unrealistic candidacy and political provocation, although we were the only party to this Parliament, which has always proposed the same person and has also responded to every call made by Mrs Zupevchevcheva, Madam President of the Commission on Elections. I will not support Mrs Prelešnik's because it is not that long since we had an incident in the National Assembly, counting the signatures for the referendum. Where they got lost and how they got lost, we also identified the procedures that followed, showing that quite a number of mistakes were made in the National Assembly, first in the National Assembly, which took over these signatures and did not count them at the time of their takeover. The services are managed by Mrs Prelesnikov, although I consider her behaviour to be biased, we know who brought her, which policy option she proposed, so I will not support her in the selection committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Maša Kociper has the floor, Mr Jani Möderndorfer is preparing. Here you go, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u14	I would like to take the floor so that perhaps some of the viewers who are watching us today will not once again get a completely one-sided picture of what is happening with regard to this appointment for the election of KPK members. In the National Assembly, we have already held a large and very long-standing debate at the request of the SDS, where we have carefully processed all the details and errors that the SDS believes would have occurred in this appointment, examined all the conspiracy theories from the back to the back, and today, so at least I understood the agenda, we should be discussing only the appointment of this commission or a concrete proposal that has already been adopted by the mother's working body. That's why I'm gonna start at this end, and I'm gonna stay here more or less. Of course, I will vote for Mrs Mojca Prelešnik, who is proposed, and I think she is the right candidate for that, but the National Assembly, as required by law, appoints someone from its own kind. I am not against ourselves being excluded from the procedures in the National Assembly and not proposing when we are legally empowered, but I will say why I would not vote in favour of the proposal proposed by the SDS, even if it were any other Member. I am only a member of this National Assembly. When we first elected the Commission, I was told that the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission participated in the previous term as a member of the National Assembly. In this case, Mrs Melita Župevc was President of the Commission of Mandate. In view of the fact that it was a well-established practice, I have supported this appointment without doubt and without bad intentions. Let me once again say that this commission we are talking about has been appointed, composed, pardoned, of five people, one of whom is a representative of the National Assembly and one representative appointed by the Government and three are non-political representatives. So there is no way that politics can win, as some want to say. However, if it is true, as the SDS all the time points out, that the policy affects appointments, then they cannot be a representative of the coalition or a representative of the opposition on this election committee. It is not, therefore, Mr Tanko, who is the representative of the party's biggest opposition, if you would like to contribute to the fact that this electoral commission will act as politically as possible. That is why I do not understand that together we do not support Mrs Moice the Prelešnik, but you insist on your appointment, with this same party, the gentleman who is proposed to this committee, repeatedly stressing how unnecessary this commission is, does not make sense, even harmful, must be abolished and so on. So forgive us if we who believe in the KPK do not appoint someone who thinks that the KPK should be abolished and who is not politically impartial. I also absolutely reject these suggestions from some that Positive Slovenia has been quietly involved in the coalition against the KPK. Never. We are not in favour of abolishing the KPK, we are in favour of the fact that the KPK works further with some new legal powers and in this sense we are proposing not a Member, not a politically defined expert, to act on a selection committee. I'll support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer could have received the word, which is why Mr Franz Pukšič has the word and Mr Jože Tanko is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u16	Thank you very much and very much. Actually, I had a little laugh, so I took a moment. So we suggest, as the predecessor said before me, a non-politically defined candidate. Yes, he loves God, and then he's a chef-defined Moja Prelesnik, if he's not politically defined. I mean, I think that's really beneath the level. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fact is that these are political appointments, these are political proposals, but this is simply to be recognised. Yeah, of course they're political. And even five years ago, or when the commission was appointed, it was also a political appointment, but not hiding behind something that is not true, and not to explain to people some theory that, of course, is not true. In Slovenia, he holds a conspiracy theory, but he does. The coalition has everything in its hands. In Slovenia, there are political networks and that is how we operate, so from 2008 to today we have committed ourselves or you have indebted those who led this country to citizens for at least four times. I'm not going to support my colleague, the Leprechaun. As far as the KPK is concerned, the KPK has done its work to some extent. But for a sample there, he convicted someone else from the political network, told him that he had all the elements of systemic corruption and so on, but nothing happened from here on out. And that's where it stopped. However, people who were in another political field were convicted of sticking a little out, and the manure poured on them. In the Slovenian People's Party, we did not put forward a proposal from a political candidate, but rather a highly legal expert. And a high-level legal expert might indeed be one of those who would also think professionally about it, not just politically. After all, he was also a member of the National Election Commission, studied abroad and so on and so on. Of course, none of this was accepted. The proposal for Mr Tank is 18 years of politics, of course, like the others you have proposed. That the other three are politically intact – yes, please, who believes you? So that's not true. Why won't I support Lady Moose the Gorge? Until today she has not cleared up, but I remember the moment when Roman Jakič almost jumped a metre into the air and said we were worse than I don't know which country when they hid, I don't know what happened to the signatures on that referendum. It's not been revealed until today. And he was president of the National Assembly, and today he is Minister of the Interior. You're all very good at covering this politically. So, aren't there any political networks? Sorry, they are. Because of these rotten political networks, you're taking the country where you're taking it. After all, those who do so will come to the dumping site of political history, but that does not mean anything, because today we have 130 000 unemployed, because last night we were able to listen on TV Slovenia to how the number of those on the social edge is growing from year to year, and you are talking about the development of the economy, jobs and so on. Write a pamphlet for the development program – this is literally a pamphlet that children would not accept in the first grade, but here you are talking about a profession. He does not deserve this confidence, and even a KPK like him will have to make a substantial change in his work. However, I think that you should also get certain teeth by amending legislation, and this legislation should be amended.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please, procedurally, Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u18	Your Honor, Mr President, I thought you'd react on your own, but since I see you won't, I'll react on my own. I will not comment on Mr Pukšič's debate level and everyone else, because I think they speak for themselves. However, I strongly protest over the words he used in connection with the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Mrs Mojco Prelesnik, when he said – at least in the context of this – that it is "kitchen-defined". I think that such a chauvinistic and insulting debate is under the level of the National Assembly, even under the level of Mr Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u19	Thank you. I must admit that when this was said, I did not hear it, but I later checked it, but it seems to me that this was more than a rhetorical question, not that I would claim that Mrs Prelešnik was what she was called, and I understood that. And I think that's true. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that these discussions between the coalition and the coalition Members are mainly from Positive Slovenia as a big bluff. Firstly, the selection commission is composed of 5 members, of which 3 members are appointed directly or indirectly by the coalition or the government of Alenka Bratušek. She appointed the Secretary-General of the Government, Mrs Tanjo Sharabon, as the representative of the Election Commission, who is a member of the Official Council, appointed by the Government in full composition, is said to be the second government representative, or the third government representative or coalition representative has been appointed to the National Assembly, according to the President of the Mandate- volitional Commission, Mrs Melita Župevc. And if I may also say that the representative of civil society representing anti-corruption organisations, Mrs Simona Habič, who was even the proponent of Mr Roc Praporteur for a member of the KPK Senate, was in the previous reference, despite not meeting the conditions. It is said that this selection of at least four members is practically on the line of the coalition. I was particularly struck by the debates, including Mrs Kociprova, at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission on the fact that I am not a suitable candidate for the election commission. I think that I have highlighted one of those Members who, in the current procedures for addressing the KPC's reports and controlling the KPC's assets. Contrary to President Melito Župevc, the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, who has not convened a meeting for months to address the annual reports of the PKK, the Senate or the Anti-Corruption Commission, and who is working in every way possible, including his coalition partners, to prevent the supervision of the assets of members of the KPC Senate from finding out, he says that the law does not allow, or that something else should be done. The member or President of the Mandate-Electority Commission was a member of the SD, who proposed this law on integrity. And now it is not implemented in the provisions of control over the property situation of the KPK and the National Assembly is the only one responsible for this. I think that talking about who is suitable for a member of the selection committee is particularly about how we try to implement laws. However, my personal position towards the Anti-Corruption Commission is a personal position and I am also in favour of it. I think that these institutions, where human resources are complemented in a way that is in the first set up, as in the previous reference, in the previous mandate and when it is now being done, do not need such a commission to prevent corruption in this country. I don't know, I can say politicalally left-profiled personnel. The only identifying feature is extreme opposition to SDS President Janez Janša. This is their current characterization of all these members of the Senate. And if you take the commission as well as a neutral commission as a commission to investigate corruption in this part or in this area, you are seriously mistaken. This is typical of the fact that you have an inquisitorial body, which, after long and over shoots those who do not follow your political directions. I'm sorry. If it were different, then the Commission would disclose the names of its supervision in the banking system in order to prevent corruption. They haven't published a single name. Nothing happened in the health system, but they're looking for these little victims after a politically different sex. And unfortunately, even with this appointment to this selection committee, things are not going to change completely. However, the problem is even greater, and virtually all documentary material from this reference and this selection process, which led to the end of Mr Stefanec and also to the withdrawal of those two members, has been destroyed. And both the Secretary-General of the Government and the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission participated. Contrary to the law, this documentary material has been destroyed and nothing can be completely verified. And in fact, there is no way in this work to understand these procedures as if it were some privilege of the left coalition to choose the people who would oversee the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u21	Thank you. The word has magic. Melite Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'm gonna do it pretty good. First of all, with regard to the consideration of the Commission's annual reports on anti-corruption in the National Assembly. True, we have been delaying the MVK reports for months and months. I'll tell you why. Consideration of the 2010 annual report. The SDS requested an update of the report. The coalition agreed, and the KPK completed this report. And when it was completed, the SDS demanded a re-up. The KPC replied that it was impossible for Parliament to submit certain things to Parliament, and the SDS disagreed and then we moved on. The SDS has proposed, and it has remained that this report should not be considered until the KPK has forwarded to the National Assembly what the Slovenian Democratic Party wants. 2011 report. At the MVK we discussed it, we also concluded the hearing and, interestingly, there was no debate on this report. Report 2012 The SDS requested the update of the report, which was also agreed upon by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Commission then corrected this report in order to prevent corruption and then adopted another decision, namely that the 2012 MVK report should be considered until the KPK meets all the requirements of the 2010 report. I hope that I have made myself clear enough, and it is everyone's fault that it was not the fault of the President of the MVK to take such a long time to deal with these reports. However, as it has been said, when reports have been discussed that there have been no substantive complications, there has been virtually no debate on this report, except for the one that the President of the Commission had to prevent corruption. As far as the selection committee procedure is concerned. Given that the SDS will be responsible for the short-term referendum, we do not know again, this is about archives, it would be good if Mr Tanko could tell us exactly what this archive and documentary material is, but what are records and megnetograms. The archiving and documentary material is regulated by law. You will go to see which rules of procedure apply to the record and to the magnetogram and you will find that there is a very large separation between these two and I would ask you not to talk about the destruction of the documentary or the previous use of the entire expression of the archives, because that was not the case. There was no documentary and archival material there. As far as the selection committee is concerned. It has already been explained that in this selection committee, which has five members, the National Assembly has one member. So one vote out of five. The Election Commission shall make a proposal to the President of the Republic and shall decide on the President of the Republic and not on the election committee. The President of the Republic shall have the discretion to elect a candidate for President or a deputy to the anti-corruption commission. As for the procedures to be determined or some of the criteria laid down by the selection committee, I hope that someone does not imagine that a representative of the National Assembly will come to this selection committee and say, "You know, boys, we will do what we say here in the National Assembly or in the Government." I have to tell you that I was on this election committee. And that's not how it works. There may be other procedures, but this has certainly not been the case. And just for the end. Mr President, I have heard Mr Puksic. Even if his question was rhetorical, it was an insulting rhetorical question, and I would expect you, as President of the National Assembly, to listen and that when a representative or a Member speaks abusively about another Member or Member or Secretary-General of the General Assembly, to respond to that, because I think this debate is going too far. I will support the Secretary-General's proposal to appoint her to the selection committee. There's one more thing I'd like to say. I, too, had no problem personally having a Member participate in the selection committee, as the SDS does. I don't see the need to give up this right in some way. It seems to me that the Secretary-General is also an appropriate proposal, appropriate and will do her work faithfully and honestly. I will therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has a replica to perform the mags. Melite Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I think some things just need to be clarified. Nothing was adopted at the request of the SDS. On the Commission's mandate, the majority of the Commission's mandate-holders voted. Therefore, the coalition Members voted in favour of this proposal. It must be agreed that it is not possible to deal with the report in advance until it has been completed by the PSC in accordance with the decision. However, in the National Assembly, I did not receive one letter from the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, who would in any way call on the President of the Commission to prevent corruption to complete the report. However, when we addressed the wealth situation of the KPK President, the largest parliamentary group threatened to obstruct the treatment of this item on the agenda. They threatened not to enforce the law in the field of control. The President of the Commission, Member of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, was then appointed to this selection committee. So someone who does not implement the law is a suitable member of the selection committee for the selection of the KPK Senate. That's interesting. It does not carry out the tasks, does not carry out the function entrusted to it, does not exercise the control conferred on it by the law adopted by it itself in the previous mandate of the Pahor Government, and then has this desire to have the choice of successor at the head of this Commission to prevent corruption. You cannot understand this in any other way than that it is an express desire for continuity, that in some privileged way it is called the Senate of the Commission and in some special way this Senate then continues to operate. One-sided treatment of other persons and does not treat all equally and equally. And that's actually the problem. This is actually the same methodology or the same approach that Mr Virant took when he sees the problems all around him, the mistakes of everyone else, but not of himself. And what he's doing [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u25	Mr. Tanko, you have the opportunity to explain in the replica if [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u26	I explain, I justify, Mr President [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u27	Mr. Virant is not an integral part of this, at least.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u28	I'm justifying the approach. And Mrs. Zupevčeva is doing exactly the same. She sees and the Group of Positive Slovenia sees problems in all others. However, they are appropriate, although they do not implement the provisions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u29	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mojca Prelešnik as a member of the selection committee for the selection of suitable candidates for the appointment of Vice-Presidents of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 23. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At day’s end, this is on the eve of a proposal for a decision in relation to employment policies in legal persons who are in the majority of the state and in relation to the growing system’s corruption. The proposal for a decision was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Let me intervene a little bit for the introduction and say again that the SDS Group is not responsible for the referendum and costs. The Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia stress this while at the same time trying to teach the President of the National Assembly what Mr Pukšič can say. So much for the principle of the Group of Positive Slovenia. Of course, our theme is something else. Our theme is employment in state-owned enterprises and the problems involved. In the introduction, let me immediately say that it would be a mistake to misinterpret a single job today, this is about the employment of Mr Roc Pratnik in the New Ljubljana Bank. This is, of course, a significantly broader problem that we perceive at least in the parliamentary group, and I think it is also more widely understood and applies to the whole area where the country can in one way or another recruit in such or similar entities. Today we have been able to hear some statements by both the President of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank and some highly left-wing politically motivated and defined journalists, how totally unacceptable it is that the National Assembly interferes with the work of the KPK, so to speak, that it interferes with the work of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank and so on. Let such hints and such phrases be strongly rejected. As long as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia pay billions and billions of dollars from 1991 to now and send them to the Novo Ljubljanska Bank with trucks, they are themselves increasingly poorer, until then the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the right to respond to such recruitments as they have done in the case of Mr Praprotnik. However, because citizens cannot come to Parliament and say their things here just because we have rules of procedure, because we have rules, we have laws, but we are Members who are obliged to draw attention to all the controversy of such things on their behalf. Let me therefore say once again that the problem is not only the recruitment of Mr Prafortnik, but that the problem is significantly broader and covers a much broader area of recruitment, if we say so. It is true, however, that Mr Pratort is a typical example, an eloquent case in which clienteleism was evident, because corruption was evident in accordance with what the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption says, so we have specifically highlighted Mr Praprotnik. Let me remind you of one thing. Mr Praprotnik wrote in dozens, hundreds, if you want, of articles that were strongly left politically motivated and that were entirely at the expense of the opposition leader Janša, or at the expense of the SDS, from the time he started writing as a student in 1995 until 2010, when he was appointed to this committee. In 2010, he ran for Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. And what happened? The law on integrity and the prevention of corruption is perfectly clear, which says that you must have 10 years of work experience in university education for this job. Mr. Rock the Prefect didn't have any. I reiterate – he did not have them because he was in the military since his graduation in 2000. And if you count down that period, he didn't have 10 years of work. Then it must be made very clear that there are various inspections and various other authorities, including the then Prime Minister Dela Giacomelli, who also found work at the New Ljubljana Bank, I will say so, try to cover it up and cover it up. They issued a series of certificates indicating that he worked as a student in the workplace with a college education. I don't know the case, but I led the biggest organization in this country myself, so that someone's work experience as a student, with a student principal or a contract, could be recognized at a time when he was in high school, for his work experience with college. But that's how he came to be. If we look at the situation ahead, what was going on. The first thing that comes into your eyes is something that you could say in the old People's River Hand washes your hand, completely ecclatanally clear in this case. You are well aware that the Anti-Corruption Commission has studied for more than a year, the international company Korn Ferry International, which deals with bank recruitment. She studied the procedures of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank and led by the Supervisory Board of Nova Ljubljanska in connection with this commission. The Supervisory Board, which was then chaired by Mr Medja, the current President of the Management Board, has chosen illegally because this is the responsibility of the administration and not of the Supervisory Board, according to the KPK, this international organisation Korn Ferry International to assist in the recruitment of the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank. Mr Medja visited the President of the Supervisory Board before the contract was concluded. This agency issued some invoices before the contract was concluded. And Nova Ljubljanska Banka paid these bills. At the time that this agency proposed, you will not believe anyone – Mr Medjo – who visited before the contract was signed recommended him as the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. Interesting. First he visits this agency in the role of the President of the Supervisory Board, probably not talking about the good weather in Slovenia or who he invited on a ski trip, probably had another conversation, human resources, and then he comes back to Slovenia and starts paying bills to this agency without the contract being concluded, then they conclude a contract, and you will not believe, Mr. Medja, the President of the Supervisory Board, will be expelled. I wrote an article a while ago where you can get out, back off, or "I didn't know" and you're forgiven for everything. And what happens next? This agency for the New Ljubljana Bank works until the middle of last year and let me also say as a new information for the public that this agency, after signing a contract with the New Ljubljana Bank, scaffolded not only Mr Medja to the job of the President of the Management Board, but brought in and advised, of course decided on the Supervisory Board, two persons, sorry who were unemployed. Their CVs do not suggest that she would be employed at the time of her recruitment to board positions in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. This means that they were unemployed and were given a job in the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank. More, ladies and gentlemen! More. One of them has high school records of me. If that information is true and I completely believe the person she told me about it, I leave it to the research journalists to investigate these recruitment procedures that the KPK has not investigated to verify. So if someone with a secondary school can, if someone who is unemployed, especially with a secondary school, can come to the top of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka administration, then we must also talk about this in the National Assembly. And no one will convince me that we have to be quiet. No, we won't be quiet! So much for the recruitment into the New Ljubljana Bank and its leadership. I addressed to Mr. Medja a letter that he even answered today. He answered me in such a way that I didn't find out anything new. The letter tells me that everything was legal, transparent and public. But let's now see what's going on with this Center for Business Compliance. The Centre for Business Coherence of the New Ljubljana Bank was established not in 2012, as some media say today, but in 2005. The request was made by the then foreign co-owner, this is the NCB that demanded it. At the very beginning, this centre had 6 employees and operated within the legal service or legal sector of the New Ljubljana Bank. In 2012 it was indeed eliminated and a self-service was created – a self-service that is subordinated directly and directly to the head of the administration, that is to Mr. Media. Its task is to ensure the implementation of laws, internal regulations and internal rules, and in particular to take care of ethical issues, which I stress in particular. Its workaround is the prevention of money laundering, the diversion of internal information, the protection of classified information, the prevention of trafficking in information. Prevention of conflicts of interest is further involved in its field of work, including the prevention of the restriction of corruption. And the only job is within the New Ljubljana Bank, which has access to every data from the Ljubljana Bank. You will probably understand that the President of the Administration does not have access to any credit agreement or map or whatever you want, which is understandable, as well as the Chief of Police does not have access to any police data, but the Chief of Crime Police does. It's similar inside the Ljubljana Bank. The Head of this service is the only one in the New Ljubljana Bank system, also applicable to all daughters and foreign branches that have access to all data. I'm stressing all the data. At that time, Mr Medja, President of the Management Board, argued that he had found none among the 870 candidates to occupy this job. He said he put in an internal invitation to tender where no one came forward. But he forgot to tell us that he said very clearly, directly and everything at his college, that he would hire a person from the outside and that he would not hire anyone from the inside. But since he was clear and said I would not hire anyone from within, neither did anyone turn up, that is also understandable, why should I. For the new year, President Medja has already approved three new jobs so that this service will count 18 people and not more than 15 people, as it has today, but at the same time ordered that all three jobs will be external. All three jobs outside, even though 700 puts them on the road. Why, he knows himself. I have to say, I don't know. At the same time, the following matter needs to be highlighted. The hand washes, I said at the beginning. See what the Commission has found to prevent corruption. And Mr Rok Praprotnik actively participated in this committee up to one week before the Commission published its final report. But they found out the following. For the first time, this Korn Ferry agency was chosen in a completely untransparent way. That they were not looking for any domestic or foreign offers, that they had done nothing to reduce the price. In fact, Nova Ljubljanska Banka paid EUR 680 000 for this consulting operation, who should be in the lead of the New Ljubljana Bank, where they brought Mr Medja, two unemployed, among them one high school student. I have managed to obtain such information at this time, and I believe that they will continue to be verified. And what did the KPK find? That they paid bills past the contract, that they paid bills without specifications, without the agency stating what she had done, sent an account for 100,000 euros and it was paid. All of this is determined by the KPK. But you will not believe it, the KPK concludes that all of this is the fault of the members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank – those former compositions before Mr. Arhar. That, however, Mr Medja as President of this Supervisory Council is not guilty of anything. He didn't do anything because he got out. But look, this Mr. Medja called from the outside at the same time. One of the first ones to call him was Mr Klemenčič and asked him to take over the management of this service. Mr Klemenčič said no, according to my information, and that is why Mr Rok Praprotnik received this job, but one week before they decided on this controversial report, you will not believe it. And because he got expelled, he didn't do anything. At that time, however, for more than five weeks he knew exactly that he would be the leader of this center. So it's not all corruption. At least that's what the gentlemen say. However, corruption is everything else, the employment of any daughter of Mr Janša or of Mr Tank's son, who also did not send smoke signals to that company. That's corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not true. They're lying to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u31	Thank you very much. At its 31st urgent meeting, on 11 April 2014, the draft decision was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the home labour force. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a decision after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a decision was concluded at the working body meeting. I give the floor to Ms Kristina Valenčič, Vice-President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, Secretary of State with colleagues! At its 31st urgent meeting on 11 April, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft decision on the employment policy of legal persons owned by the majority of the state and in relation to the growing system of corruption submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. Complementary explanation was given on behalf of the applicant by Member Sonja Ramšak and said that one of Slovenia's key problems is systemic corruption, which has been dealt with on several occasions by the National Assembly, and was also pointed out by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. In the light of the latest developments, this is the employment of Roc Prafortnik in the post of Director of the Centre for Business Compliance in Nova Ljubljanska Bank, a number of questions arise, in particular as regards the appropriateness of the selected candidate in terms of education and work experience. The applicant considers that there is a serious suspicion that this employment could involve elements of systemic corruption, or corruption, of the NLB administration, which is majority owned by the Republic of Slovenia and in the process of recovery by means of tax means. In the presentation of the written legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service made specific comments on individual points. In point 2 of the ZPS points out the autonomy of Banka Slovenije, provided in Article 152 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by which Banka Slovenije, as a central bank, is independent and responsible directly to the National Assembly. Thus, the proposal contained in point 2 could constitute an intervention in its autonomy. With regard to paragraphs 3 and 4, relating to the proposals made by the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service points out that the appropriate formal form of the Act of the National Assembly is not chosen, while point 3 does not take into account the applicable arrangements under the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is administered by the Court under the previous regulations, and the Government only carries out the functions and powers of the Court of Justice. The 4th point of the ZPS points out the constitutional dimension of the proposed legal solutions, since the restriction on the employment of KPK officials in employers who had previously been the investigators of the Commission for the prevention of corruption would constitute an intervention in the right to free choice of employment. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefic, said that the Government had already included in the 2014 work programme the drafting of a law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption, taking into account the experience and shortcomings of the past. Vice-Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr. Mejra Festić said that Banka Slovenije cannot be defined before the proposal for a decision under the Banka Slovenije Act. Article 2 provides that the Bank of Slovenia and the members of its decision-making bodies shall be independent and shall not be bound in the performance of their duties to the decisions, positions and instructions of national or other authorities, nor shall they be addressed in accordance with instructions or guidance. The President of the Association of Banks of Slovenia, Dr France Arhar, said that the President of the NLB Supervisory Board has been in charge since June 2013. He mentioned Slovenia's unhealed wound regarding corporate governance. He stressed that Slovenia has also committed itself to the European Union to withdraw policy from corporate governance and decision-making, but banks remain in the hands of the state. He also explained the powers of the Bank’s Supervisory Board, which are taxed by the Banking Act and which do not include participation in employment, which is the responsibility of the Bank’s management. The procedure under consideration was carried out in accordance with the rules. The four-year term of office of the Director has expired so far, and there have been no applications to the internal invitation to tender. However, 13 candidates applied for the external invitation to tender and none of the unelected candidates complained. He further expressed concern that everything was being thrown into the same basket and made a resignation statement as the President and as a member of the NLB Supervisory Board. After the short suspension, the Minister of Finance also attended the meeting, which answered the questions raised by the Members. After a lengthy discussion, the Committee voted on the individual points of the proposal for a decision and adopted none. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it was found that the consideration of the proposal for a decision concerning employment policy in the home labour body had been completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u33	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Mitji Mavku, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u34	Madam Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the Government, I would like to begin by stressing that the Government is taking the emergence of systemic corruption and the risks of corruption very seriously and very systematically. Last month, the government adopted a comprehensive programme of anti-corruption measures to underpin its determination to implement anti-corruption activities, as well as to limit the risks of systemic corruption. This programme covers a range of areas, not only specific to what has been initially more exposed today, but also to real state-owned enterprises, but also significantly broader, and partly responds to the 15 proposals of the Commission's anti-corruption Chamber, which have been upgraded by specific concrete measures to be implemented this year and are also partially implemented by individual sectors. Thus, this comprehensive programme of anti-corruption measures includes changes to the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, amendments to other sectoral laws, the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, public procurement legislation, which is often the subject of criticism, the introduction of legislative traces. A very important part of this package is also the amendment of the Act on Access to Public Information, which has already been adopted. If you allow it to initially touch on the specific two areas that are likely to be the subject of the biggest debates today, namely, the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. As mentioned above, the Government has committed itself to preparing amendments to the Act. The amendments to the Act are included in the work programme, the Government's work programme for this year and will certainly be submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration in the coming weeks. The Government supports the systemic changes to the Act and intends to address some of the shortcomings of the current system by means of a new proposal, upgrade individual procedures, ensure equal and legal treatment of the debtors and enhance transparency in the control of the assets of the debtors. The Government also supports the adoption of a law in the work where further and more detailed arrangements would be made for the selection procedure of members of the KPK Senate, as well as their rights and duties during the performance of their duties and after the termination of their duties. A very important part of the systematic fight against corruption, in our view, is also the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act. As you know, a new law has been passed in the past month, which has a completely new chapter on strengthening integrity and accountability and limiting the risk of corruption in managing investments owned by SDH or by the Republic of Slovenia managed by SDH. The new law thus includes very strict and decisive measures for transparency, requires advance and written disclosure of potential or existing conflicts of interest and prescribes appropriate sanctions for infringements of conflict of interest and personal or business clientism. The government believes that, with measures already taken to prevent systemic corruption, and in particular with all that is consistently addressed in the comprehensive anti-corruption programme [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Systemic corruption in Slovenia and we are preventing the risk of corruption. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mrs Sonja Ramšak have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u36	Honourable Vice-President, Secretary of State with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that, according to all the indicators, the level of corruption in Slovenia is increasing, as also follows from the European anti-corruption report published by the European Commission on 3. 2. 2014 which includes an overview of the situation of corruption and its limitations in the EU Member States. In the part of the report relating to the analysis of public opinion, Slovenia sees it as a group of countries where corruption is one of the most serious problems. In the analytical work relating to the Republic of Slovenia, the European Commission highlighted the problems of lack of integrity, accountability and low political and legal culture of public function holders, the slow functioning of the judicial system, the area of public procurement, the conflict of interests and clientism in the business of the country and state-owned enterprises, the disproportionately strong political influence and lack of transparency and supervision in the functioning of state-owned enterprises, the lack of a legal framework for control over the assets of officials and business persons and supervisors in state-owned enterprises, and the insufficient staffing and financial capacity of certain supervisory authorities, including the Commission to prevent corruption, which the Commission also pointed out in the 2013 report on the Commission's work to prevent corruption. The fact is, therefore, that the level of corruption in Slovenia is increasing, even though we have an independent body set up, this is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which is supposed to be under the former leadership, so under the guidance of mags. Goran Klemenčič, Roca Praprotnika and Dr. Liljana Selinšek successfully fought corruption. The employment of one of the former members of the Commission's anti-corruption Senate – Roca Praprotnik, Director of the Centre for Business Coherence in Novi Ljubljanska Banka, shares company, unfortunately, is further throwing a bad light on the state authority, whose main task should be to combat corruption and ensure integrity in the work of state authorities. Such moves as the employment of KPK member Roc Pratnik in the Commission's anti-corruption investigator are further discredited by the Commission and take credibility for all cases dealt with by the Commission, including those where the KPK has indisputably decided on a neutral basis and has helped to detect corruption. The case of employment of a former member of the KPK Senate in Novi Ljubljanska Bank, who is in state ownership and is recovering with the money of us taxpayers, is undoubtedly a work similar to the case of Prosecutor Boštjan Penk, who, as a prosecutor at meetings, met with the accused Ivan Zidar, who was being prosecuted and then stepped down as a lawyer for the same John Zidar in a law firm, you will not believe, Nina Zidar Klemenčič, the wife of the former President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that there is a serious suspicion of the corruption of the management of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which, on the one hand, announced that by the end of the year, it would have fired more than 700 employees, closed 22 offices, shut down several ATMs, and, on the other hand, hired Roc Praprotnik, a journalist and a politician to work, which requires certain knowledge and skills in banking according to the applicable standards. In this regard, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that it is not an interference of policy with the corporate governance of the bank, which some would like to show, but a warning of unacceptable practices that contain elements of systemic corruption. It is therefore a serious suspicion that the management of the New Ljubljana Bank has published and selected the Year of Praprotnik exclusively and only to provide the said one with a well-paid position as a remuneration for the procedures of non-action against the New Ljubljana Bank by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption at the time when Rok Praprotnik performed the duties of Vice-President of this Commission, or as a reimbursement for some other past work on the Commission. The fact remains, therefore, that the Praprotnik Rok does not have adequate experience in banking, nor has he had them when, as Vice-President of the KPK, he participated in the preparation of a lack of assessment of the situation in the Slovenian banking system in terms of systemic corruption. Let me remind you that, after reporting on the employment media of the Director of the Centre for Business Compliance of the New Ljubljana Bank, education of economic or other social interest and only five years of work experience, of which at least two years has been required in management positions. Given that more stringent criteria are required for comparable situations in foreign banks and other domestic banks, and in particular the experience in banking, it can be concluded that the employment of the Procurator for a purpose-oriented invitation to tender has taken place in so far as the conditions for employment in this call have been eased. The discovery of the real reasons for the employment of the Protractor's Year in the New Ljubljana Bank, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, is not only important in terms of the appropriateness and legality of employment in the State Bank, but the identification of the real reasons and the debate on these reasons are also important in clarifying the circumstances of the Commission's intention to prevent corruption from being established and the appointment of members of this Commission on political criteria with predetermined political objectives. Since the supervision of the KPK over the banking system in terms of systemic corruption in the introduction has already been discussed in detail by Mr Vinko Gorenak, it is only clear from the assessment of the situation in the Slovenian banking system in the light of the systemic corruption accepted by the Commission in 2013 that this is only a flat-rate irregularity and that the KPK did not disclose or identify the specific persons involved, neither on the part of the banks nor on the part of the recipients of the loans. The assessment or report was obviously too general and too specific to reveal on its basis the responsibility for systemic corruption or to take any appropriate measures to prevent further systemic corruption in the banking system. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that the coalition Members and Members of the Home Committee have not supported the proposed decision or recommendations on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. The adoption of the proposed reports would allow for a broader debate on systemic corruption and would also allow the adoption of appropriate legislative proposals and thus confirm that we all have a serious intention together to fight against systemic corruption not only by words but also by actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Social Democrats and the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the State! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the requirement for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the subject of employment in legal persons who are majority state-owned and with regard to increasing systemic corruption is just another attack on the Commission to prevent corruption, which has been taking place with varying frequency and intensity for years. Finally, this was carried out at the 58th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, so it is understandable that the requests made by the applicants did not wish to be linked to the Anti-Corruption Commission so clearly. This time, therefore, dissatisfaction with the work of the Commission lies under the heading which is in fact linked to corporate governance in companies owned by a majority of state-owned companies, and thus, at the outset, is falling into the question of the competence of the National Assembly. That the role of policy and the permissibility of its involvement in human resources policy in individual economic operators is a fundamental issue, which is more than obvious as a result of the debate and developments at and after the meetings of the parent labour body. The content of the request, the proposal for a decision and the accompanying material show this. The human resources policy is linked by the proponents to systemic corruption. Addressing systemic corruption is one of the key issues that is a priority in the new coalition treaty, and we are also committed to the Social Democrats. The perception of corruption in the Slovenian public, when individuals have assessed its occurrence in various international surveys, is generally estimated to be omnipresent in all segments of our society. It is true, however, that individuals avoid stating their own concrete experience with it, and it is justified to raise the issue of the effectiveness of legal solutions and planned measures if the company does not clearly defend ethical and moral standards which are considered unacceptable by corruption. The government has adopted a programme of measures to prevent corruption and we have already discussed this in the National Assembly. The Government's normative programme also sets a deadline by which the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption will be adopted. However, the debate has shown that the views on the regulation of the main issues, in particular the Commission's powers to prevent corruption, are very different. In doing so, it is symptomatic that, in view of the overall assessment that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is a toothless tiger, the proposals do not move in the same direction, since in the largest opposition party and also in the previous coalition, they tended to limit the Commission's action to prevent corruption to a preventive function. It will be necessary to find a consensus in the professional and political public on how to prepare the announced novelty to guarantee legal certainty and be so clear in its provisions that there will be no spoils of different interpretations. In this respect, it is certainly the basis of a proposal prepared by the Commission to prevent corruption itself or its former leading officials, and an important basis is also the constitutional analysis of the Constitutional Law Institute, prepared by Cyril Ribičič, Rajko Pirnat and Janez Čebulj, at the request of the President of the State. The main issues concern the definition of corruption, since the definition in the applicable law is broader than that in the criminal code, in particular jurisdiction and remedies. This has also proved to be an important issue of the appointment of leading officials, namely the President and his deputies and the selection process. The performance of the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, who explained at the meeting of the parent working body what the powers of the Supervisory Board are, ended with the announcement of the resignation, although the Supervisory Board is not responsible for the staff decisions of the NLB management. However, before that, he explained that he had received from the administration, at his express request, clarifications concerning the alleged irregularities in the appointment of Roc Praprotnik to the post of Director of the Centre for Business Compliance in NLB, with the aim of further enforcing cleanliness and compliance with all regulations and good business practice. It follows from his appearance that the procedure was carried out according to the rules, namely no one has applied to the internal invitation to tender, 13 have been notified to the external invitation to tender, no complaints have been made by choice. Dr. France Arhar further pointed out the gap between the rules that are not available in this case, so nothing prevents the candidature. On the other hand, the question is whether this is appropriate or ethical. Therefore, the decision is left to the individual in such a situation. However, there are good practices and we should consider whether, when amending the regulation, we should limit freedom of employment due to the information advantage of an individual. The President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has criticised the fact that the assessment of the situation in Slovenian banking is flat-rate, pointing to Article 20 of the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption, that the Commission must avoid mentioning data that would allow legal persons and individuals to be identified. However, the National Assembly is responsible for overseeing the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission. This is what the proposed point 5 of the decision is talking about. With regard to the 6th point of the proposed decision, however, the Commission explained that the Commission had initiated a procedure concerning applications for the appointment of the Administrative Officer for the Director of the Centre and because the procedure was ongoing, it could not provide concrete information on this. The original working body of the proposed decision was not adopted, so we have only a few hours to discuss. Let me explain why the decision did not receive the support of the Social Democrats. It is necessary to return to the beginning, that is to say, to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which stated that the proposed content of the decision does not comply with the title of the decision. It is also highlighted in particular the shortcomings of the individual points of the decision, which range from the inappropriate placement of a summary of the content of the debate as a specific point of the decision to the reference to a derogation from the commercial definition of the content of the decision of inappropriate interference with the autonomy of the Bank of Slovenia and to the fundamental principles of contractual freedom to the requirement for supervision of the work of the Praprotnik Year, for which the National Assembly is competent under Article 13 of the Act. Let me get this. Although the requirement for today's session is at a general level, it cannot be ignored that there is a single case in the core, which in the proposed decision points to internal disharmony, because after a discussion on the appointment of the Praprotenik to the post of Director of the Centre for Business Compliance in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, d.d., it passes to the 5th and 6th points of the decision, which calls for more detailed supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette and, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. One good day to the representatives of the Government and to all Members and Members present. It is not possible to overlook the ease of the applicants when it is necessary to defile or condemn a person without substantial evidence or arguments when requesting this extraordinary meeting. As no proposaler has, the rest of us today do not have information on the conditions of employment in the NLB, we do not have the tasks of the Compliance Centre, we do not have the systemisation of jobs, nor do we have internal staff regulations. In the absence of relevant data, however, we cannot take good solutions. We also wonder if it would not be wiser for the applicants to be up to 17. 4. 2014 when the new Act on Access to Public Information enters into force and then requires the information they need. If they establish the grounds for suspecting criminal services, they shall inform the competent prosecutor, or if the data raises doubts about the possibility of corruption, they shall inform the Commission thereof to prevent corruption. It is sad that at the initiative of some in the National Assembly, we are constantly dealing with individual cases, including personal objections to dealing with former supporters, with the impression that someone is making in public, with what someone is thinking out loud. In the Civil Gazette, we decide on the basis of the facts provided by the competent institutions and not on the basis of a collection of rumors of cheerleading contributions or newspaper articles. We advocate transparency and that every action be followed by verifiable facts. If there has been a malfunction in the employment of a former official, this should be investigated by the competent authorities. The NLB shall have the supervisory board with the relevant information and shall be competent, in accordance with Article 281 of the Company Act, to supervise the management of the business of the company, to review and verify the books and documents of the company. It shall require the Administration to carry out any information necessary for the exercise of control. In the country, we have the police and the prosecutor's office, which have all the necessary powers and powers to take appropriate action in the event of the existence of grounds for suspicion of official prosecution services. We believe that the relevant authorities and institutions will do their job. The fact that they are more and more successful in doing so also proves numbers. The report on police work in the first nine months of 2013 shows that the scope of the investigation and the prosecution of economic crime was increased by 59% in the first nine months of 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. If I focus on corruption, the police in 2013 dealt with and concluded 62 crimes of typical corruption crime, 7% more than in 2012. However, it is only a fact that there is a debate in the National Assembly on whether it is right that our largest bank has hired a certain employee or not, in some way, there has been a reason for the resignation of this first bank supervisor, Mr Arhar. In the Civil Gazette, we also understand his resignation as a reminder to the politicians of the future that we hold our powers in safe exercise and that we do not interfere where politics is not the city. It would be good if there was no place for politics in state-owned companies. Unfortunately, however, the informal national interest has been legalised 20 years ago and some of us have been perverted by the pleasures of fishing across the economy, which we cannot dispel. Regardless of which political party or option has in the past sung national interest and whoever has already signed petitions that domestic ownership is the most egregious. The time for sobriety has come, the innkeeper has set up an account of national interest. He has discouraged the previous KPC Senate from saying "Stop corruption", Mr Arhar has despaired of interfering with politics in state ownership and over the cemeteries of this property. In the Civil Gazette, however, we continue to fight until, of course, we have this option. The accelerated privatisation and withdrawal of policies from the economy and corporate governance, the country's strategic investment in the hands of those who know this, is what is a prerequisite or the first step towards the exit of Slovenia from the crisis. And for that, we will always give our vote in our midst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! Increasingly, the recapitalisation of banks is becoming the central theme not only of the parliamentary halls, but also the central theme of the talks in our villages, parks, markets, innkeepers – banks, this bottomless hole that we will have to patch up not only us but also our children and grandchildren. The patching of €3 billion of the New Ljubljana Bank's large hole has been made by the current administration in its own way. It closed 22 shops mainly in the countryside, including in the City, Turnište, Izlakah, Šmartnem ob Paka, Vuzenica, Krmelj, Kostanjevica, Škocjanu, Novi vasa, Dolenjski Toplice. She sent 141 workers to the road, the ones who did their job at the bank windows. By the end of 2015, 700 people were to be unemployed. In the meantime, those who have granted credits without coverage, on a good name or on a good last name, have remained employed, and are still receiving a rich payment for their diligence today. We can add another €680,000 to this difficult consultation contract, which was concluded by the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank with the Korn Ferry International Human Resources Agency to help him find competent personnel. Let's just illustrate this amount a little bit. Of this money, about five months would pay all 141 workers. Part of such employment policy or the dismissal of employees by the management of the New Ljubljana Bank is the employment of Roc Pratnik in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. It is likely that the employment of a specific person in any company owned by a majority of the State Council would never have worked if the same person had not been a member of the infamous three who saved Slovenia from corruption and pointed out transparency at every step. These three are the same three who are to fight with all their might against corporate governance of state companies in a way that allows the money of citizens to flow to the hidden bank accounts of individuals. It is in such systems that the KPK is supposed to look for those responsible and give people the satisfaction for all the bad things they had to do and should suffer for the mistakes of someone else. This is exactly what it is supposed to do: in the orchard of our country, it removes rotten apples, but it does not approach those apples. The fact that the former KPK Senate has stalled by issuing a report on systemic corruption in Nova Ljubljanska Banka until its departure, and the fact that they have not spoken in all these years about objective or subjective responsibilities for the creation of the Bank's Bank of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, and the fact that, as a member of the Senate of KPK, Rok Praprotnik has applied for employment in Nova Ljubljanska Bank at the time of the investigation of KPK, is likely to reopen questions about the possibility of at least indirect impact on the functioning and decision of the former KPK Senate. The employment of the Procurator's Year as such is not really a problem of the National Assembly. The problem is the message created by this employment. It is a very bad signal that it is not worth persecuting systemic corruption, but that it is better to become part of a system that is under investigation due to systemic corruption. And with that signal, the National Assembly has to deal with it. It's not property, it's people who give messages that give an impression that do things and cause consequences and who have to answer for the consequences of their actions. Responsibility begins with the supervisory councils of the majority state-owned societies, where people should be called, not by loyalty to this or that political option, but by expertise and independence. Only such a supervisory board would choose competent leadership to organise its work processes, not for the benefit of a narrow group of people, but for the benefit of all employees and for the benefit of all citizens. Only with such professional and independent staff responsible for the results of their work or work would the possibility of concluding friendly advisory contracts and the system of returning such or other services be reduced. It is certainly a matter of agreeing with experts who say that our corporate governance system is on the table. People at the lowest level are responsible for the bad results — the ones behind the bank windows. Those who are responsible for the mistakes remain or are making progress. Despite possible good results, good works leave if they are not willingly assigned to a group of people. Money is shared in a narrow circle of people far away from the eyes of the public, and leaders conclude advisory contracts that they do not have the right to know about. From owners, this is a citizen and citizens, it is expected that we will open our wallets in a calm and decent manner as ants when the boys think they need a new package of our money for 70,000 euros worth of audit or for a million dollars' worth of retirement. And in the end, the guilty remain innocent and the innocent become guilty. We can establish a thousand institutions in this country, we can adopt one hundred laws on the fight against corruption, we can sell all the assets we have, and it will not be any better, no more transparent, if a clear system of accountability is not established at the actual level, which will in itself eliminate all those who are intentionally or negligently through the service or abandonment of the obligation to act have caused the situation in which we are found. In the end, they only count the actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and by Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! The current composition of the National Assembly is marked by double criteria. Remarkably double the criteria, both on the side of the coalition and on the side of the opposition. Certain actions are acceptable when they are done alone, and when the other party does so, scary shouting and shouting, condemning, convening extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, and similar theatres are launched. What might seem funny to us in the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retirement Party may seem to us if such conduct did not have serious consequences, not only financially, because every session of the National Assembly costs taxpayers a lot of money, but also psychologically, since it is in the public eye that everything that happens in state companies is a result of corruption, so we are not surprised by the bad opinion that citizens have on corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we do not claim that the employment of Mr Praprotenik on NLB is not disputed or that the selection process itself was carried out as it should have been. Nor do we claim that this job is untransparent, corrupt or anything like that. We must admit that we simply do not know all the facts so that we can generate an opinion. Although we could have a judgment based on writing Slovenian media, anyone who is at least a little realistic knows that paper carries everything. And lies and teasing. Whether that's the case in this case, we don't know. Only the main players in this story, Mr Medja and Mr Praprotnik, know this. But we are always surprised by the vehement accusation or, rather, the diversion of attention from our actions by the motioners of today's extraordinary session. We do not all have the memory of a goldfish, so we are still very well reminded of the premature and actually controversial appointment of two heads of administrative units to the stock that was taken under the previous government's tactics, led by the party proposing today's meeting. However, at the time of the Ministry of the Interior's Ministry of the Interior's ministry, it is also at the time of the former government's ministry. We could count and count, but we're not going to go down to that level. The fact is that the sins of untransparent and corrupt employment also appear on the side of the proposer of today's meeting. Therefore, it would be wise to stick to the river, that he that is without sin should cast stones. I would hope to say that today's proponents certainly aren't. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are disturbed by another fact that NLB is not part of the public sector, regardless of whether it is a state-owned bank. If it were part of the public sector, it would be possible to judge whether the provisions on the employment of public servants had been violated. Unfortunately, we can't do that in state-owned companies. Indeed, state-owned companies differ greatly from the public sector. The difference is already that employees in state-owned enterprises have more rights, higher wages, employers have the opportunity to reward successful workers, they have the right to high regresses, departures, paid education, all credits that have been missing in the public sector for many years. The level of regression is reduced annually by legal provisions that do not work in public companies. Therefore, at least from the point of view of the employees of state-owned enterprises, it is necessary to think carefully about whether we really want the National Assembly to be involved in the work, business and employment of state-owned enterprises. After all, an intervention by the National Assembly in employment could also cancel any controversial employment of the visible members of the party's largest opposition in many state-owned companies. The Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia has not already supported the decision proposed by the convocation of the extraordinary meeting. Had we voted on this decision today, we would not have supported it either. We also consider today's emergency meeting to be inappropriate, as the content itself is completely flawed. We agree, however, that systematic and non-systemic corruption must actually be pursued thoroughly. However, we will not resolve anything with long-standing debates. It is necessary to act decisively, quickly and without big words. To that end, we have in our country competent services dealing with crime and corruption, and they definitely do not need the National Assembly to pressure these fruitless debates, which we will once again bear witness to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Jožef Horvat have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! Soon Slovenia will celebrate the 10th anniversary of its entry into the European Union. I hope we celebrate this anniversary with dignity. Therefore, my introduction may be somewhat more European. In early February, the European Commission presented its first report on the fight against corruption in the European Union, which notes that corruption affects all citizens of the European Union and the European economy annually causes about €120 billion of damage. It's a fantastic number. In the report, the European Commission stressed that there are differences in the type and extent of corruption and also in the effectiveness of measures to combat it across Member States. The final conclusion is that Member States have not done enough to combat corruption and that more attention must be paid in all Member States to combating corruption. In the first report, the European Commission in a special chapter on the fight against corruption in Slovenia drew attention to a marked decline in political will to fight corruption. A marked decline in political will to fight corruption in Slovenia. This conclusion of the Commission is particularly concerned by the fact that, according to the Eurobarometer survey, 91% of our citizens believe that corruption in Slovenia is widespread. Among other proposals, the Commission has recommended that Slovenia strengthen anti-corruption mechanisms in relation to state-owned or state-controlled enterprises and in procurement and privatisation procedures, and that it do more to effectively control funding. More than 30% of companies in Slovenia are owned or controlled by the state. The European Commission also drew attention to a number of issues relating to employment and conflicts of interest in state-owned or state-controlled enterprises. The proposals of the European Commission will need to be taken into account and the necessary political will to combat corruption. An important step in this direction has been taken by the recent adoption of the Law on Access to Public Information, which introduces the Supervisor application also for companies owned by the majority state. The current Supervisor application at the KPK has brought much more transparency, especially in the area of the financial operations of public institutions managing tax money. This Supervisor application is, in fact, one very rare, if not one of the only praises it deserves from the KPK. The circle of persons exposed to public control over financial transactions extends to entities with the dominant influence of the State or local communities through the amendment adopted. In this way, corruption risks in these organisations will certainly be reduced in the future. More importantly, public control is being established over the bad loans that have been transferred to a bad bank. Finally, let us point out that it is very important to adopt an additional amendment to the Public Information Act, which is now in the parliamentary procedure and will, at least so we hope, allow for an insight into all bad bank loans in the majority state ownership, including those that have not been transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia, however, would like to draw attention to the special emerging forms of systemic corruption when an individual or individual group of individuals, for the purposes of personal exploitation, abuse its position completely within formal frameworks when discussing the increase in the dimension of systemic corruption and the fight against it. It is a variety of emerging forms, from the classic irrational spending of resources, including the overpayment of individual services, to the opening of unnecessary jobs and unnecessary organisational units, the use of outdated information technology, unimaginable and unfinished projects and so on. In all such cases, it is shown that the spending of money, employment or even the implementation of individual projects was correct and lawful, since everything was carried out in the letter of the law and, in the background, hidden or better said, disguised by the unlawful purpose of encroachment. These forms of corruption are the most common in our system. They are hard to identify, since on the outside they are practically always presented as completely legal acts. And they're only like that, in their form, and by their content, they're immoral, they're illegal, they're often even criminal. So everything under the cover of a formal interpretation of the word rule, which is most often completely different from its own purpose. Such abuses should be identified and sanctioned by supervisory authorities, individual supervisory councils, agencies and inspection services, not least by the Anti-Corruption Commission, but by the judiciary in particular. These supervisory authorities themselves, in fact, operate in a bureaucratic way, inspecting only some formal frameworks, not taking into account the purposes behind them. They prefer not to make decisions, and as a result they do not take any responsibility for their work or work. But they have jobs and wages. Yeah, they got jobs and wages. And that's a good wage on jobs. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We do not need such supervisory authorities and simply eliminate them. As soon as possible. There is no real benefit from them or, alternatively, that we ask them to do their work in a consistent manner, as the rules impose upon them in accordance with the purpose for which they exist. This legal formalism also greatly infected the judiciary. At this point, we would also like to draw attention to the important conclusion of the European Court of Human Rights Judge Boštjan M. Zupančič, with whom we strongly agree. In one of his interviews he warned that Slovenian justice faces, quote, "...the disease of Eastern European legal systems. It is an incredible mechanical legal formalism, where judges do not judge by reason of common sense in the context of each case individually, but mechanically draw conclusions from a fictional equation. In short, the judge must have a particularly healthy mind and, of course, legal knowledge. Someone who decides mechanically is worse than a computer." End of quote. It is precisely this mechanical legal formalism that is most often covered by its actual content for systemic corruption. The severe consequences for our society, which also falls within the framework of systemic corruption, are also employment based on the criterion of relationships and knowledge rather than on the criterion of expertise and ability. Such staffing has led to the situation that many, including key jobs are occupied by non-professional and incompetent individuals. With this type of staffing, we have created a rich system of inefficient public administrations serving themselves instead of being a functional and efficient service to citizens. Nepotism and clienteleism are often the reason for poor performance in business in companies and banks owned by the majority state. However, accounts for all subsidies and recapitalisations, which are often due to misstaffing, have been made available to taxpayers. However, we have already reached the point where such practices will have to be put to an end. We therefore believe that the debate on the issues of systemic corruption, its recognition and recognition of its existence and its dimensions is necessary in order to finally establish the necessary preventive and repressive measures to effectively combat such forms of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u48	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State, Your Honor! In view of the employment of the former Vice-President of the Commission to prevent corruption, the SDS Group requested the convening of this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In addition to that employment, it is intended to address the employment policy of legal persons owned by the majority state and the problem of systemic corruption. Let me say that a large part of the requirement to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, in fact, contains reasons that are unrelated to the agenda item, such as the appointment of members of the KPK from the establishment of the PPK, or that Rok Praprotnik met the formal conditions for the appointment of the Vice-President of the PPK, the functioning of the PPK during the mandate of the Pprotnik Year and could still be listed. In presenting the position of the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia would also like to draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states that the majority of the decision proposed by the SDS in the adoption of the National Assembly is not within the competence of the National Assembly. Thus, in the light of the powers vested in Parliament as one of the three branches of government, the content of the first point of the decision is questionable. The proposer would like to hold a debate at the meeting of the National Assembly on the appointment of the Praprotnik Year, former Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, as Director of the NLB Business Compliance Centre, d.d., which is owned by the majority of the state. At this point, I would like to point out that employment in companies where a majority of the state, such as NLB, is not subject to the Public Servants Act, since these companies are not part of the public sector, but are private-law individuals. The National Assembly does not have the power to decide on such employment, but it is the responsibility of the supervisory councils of the individual companies that the Government may call upon to defend. The content of point 2 of the decision is no less questionable. Applicants want the National Assembly of Banka Slovenije to propose a review of the employment process of Roc Pratnik in NLB, although the Banka Slovenije Act gives rise to the institutional independence of our central bank. As an institution, the central bank is not obliged to follow instructions from the government, not Parliament or other government organisations. Banka Slovenije must not request instructions from other state authorities, nor shall it address them in accordance with instructions or guidance. So is the Bank of Slovenia Act, which therefore does not allow interference of the National Assembly in its work. Point 3 and 4 of the decision are also controversial in terms of the principle of the division of power. In this principle, each branch of authority may act in accordance with its jurisdiction. However, it cannot and must not interfere with the jurisdiction of the other branch of power. All in advance of the state-of-the-art, it is for the Government to propose the preparation of individual laws, while the main competence of the National Assembly itself is to adopt laws. The third point of the decision requires the Government, as the majority owner of NLB, d.d., to implement measures to address corruption risks and corruption in employment in NLB, d.d., even though under the current legislation the Government exercises only the tasks and powers of the Court of Justice, direct powers for the implementation of the measures in NLB, d.d., does not. The fourth point of the decision goes even further as the Government requires it to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by proposing to the National Assembly for adoption legal solutions to limit the employment of Commission officials in pre-trial employers and to lay down stricter and more specific conditions for appointing the Commission’s anti-corruption officer. This restriction of employment constitutes an intervention in the freedom of work protected by Article 49 of the Constitution. Nor is it possible to overlook that the legislator has already adopted similar solutions for prosecutors and judges, and the Constitutional Court has declared the regulation unconstitutional. It is clear, of course, that in Positive Slovenia we cannot support such incitement to a violation of the Constitution. In point 5 of the SDS Decision, the Commission, in order to prevent corruption, requires it to review the work of the Pratnik Year in its work relating to NLB, d.d. and to establish a procedure for the identification of corruption, infringements of proceedings against interests, infringements of ethics and integrity, and to assess corruption risks in the work of the Pratnik Year in relation to procedures where NLB, d.d. was an investigator. The applicants again require from the State authority something which is not within their competence. It is not possible for the Commission to supervise the work of a member of the Commission by itself, even though it is in a different composition, but only the National Assembly is responsible for this. All of this and more of us in the Group of Positive Slovenia have led to the conclusion that we will not take the proposed decision, and we will only participate in the debate in the part which relates to the powers of the National Assembly as legislator. Finally, one, not only rhetorical question: will the National Assembly address all employment in the state administration or in enterprises owned by a majority of the state?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The first is Mr Jože Tanko as a proposaler. Mr Brane Golubovic, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Mr. Mirko Brulc, Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. First, in the introduction, the answer to these dilemmas is whether the National Assembly is competent to deal with this or not. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be responsible for the adoption of the situation in specific areas, for the preparation of policy decisions in these areas, for the establishment of views on individual issues and for the consideration of proposals for laws and other acts of the National Assembly. In this case, we are also talking about a policy of conduct. We have passed the Integrity Act, we have adopted the Budget Implementation Act, the State Budget, and we have written in it a very extensive package of debt and guarantees, and we have dedicated this to some programme, to cover the bank hole in one way or another. So, the National Assembly is responsible for some things. By the way, I would remind you that the National Assembly was also responsible for the adoption of the decision on the recapitalisation of Adrie Airways; this was a forceful meeting of the National Assembly, three committees. Under the same rules, the National Assembly committees were responsible for the recapitalisation of Adrie Airways. It was just a term a little back. For another debate, the necessary investments of the State, the State budget, state resources, public resources, for example, in Cimos, there was probably a debate in the National Assembly. So much for this jurisdiction. I do not think that the National Assembly is competent to deal with specific areas only when it is expected to provide political coverage for an action by the Government or for an action such as the Bank of Slovenia and so on. If the National Assembly is also generally responsible for implementing or addressing policies, then in this case we can also talk about the recruitment policy, the implementation policy of the Integrity Act and so on and back. It is said that this self-restraint of the National Assembly, which is also carried out through the opinions of the Government or the Legislative and Legal Service, is in fact inappropriate and is pre-exclusion that in certain areas where we believe that policies or other actions are not going well or in accordance with legal acts, the National Assembly is excluded and that there is no discussion. I think that this approach is, in fact, extremely inappropriate for all those who have warned of this. After all, everything that is going on in public opinion is aimed at the National Assembly, the Members, and people are also demanding certain activities and actions from us. The National Assembly is the one who appoints the executive authority to appoint a government that implements individual policies in these areas. And I would just like to remind you that the relationship between the coalition or the government's attitude to the individual problems that we are dealing with shows how we will direct our actions. This year we have had some interpretations of the ministers who exercise power. We've read to them concrete actions supported by documents. It was Minister Virant, twice, for Minister Omerzel, for Minister Pikal. When you talk about the attitude toward these practices, you should first tell how you acted when you made your decision. If the coalition majority in this National Assembly is appointed or elected to cover such behaviours, in which individual cases more than one million euros have gone missing, something is wrong with this country. Then we do not need any law on integrity, we do not need any repressive authority in this country, nor a national investigative office, nor such a commission, nor a tax office, nor any courts, because if such political decisions cover acts that are proven to be a problem with documents supported by a problem, then virtually in this country is seriously wrong. I would very much like to draw attention to two documents, two acts signed by the first President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Drago Kos, which refer to more or less both of these acts at the present or the Senate which resigned, to Klemenčič's Commission. Here, in one of these documents, Drago Kos wonders how it is possible for members of the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption, who have shared such grave moral sciences on the left and right, especially on the right, to forget to report the property of their family members or the company of family members with whom the country should not operate. How is that possible? Mr Klemenčič, President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, did not report his wife's company to his committee. For example, Minister Omerzel has also failed to conclude contracts with the company, even though he has promised not to. And I shouldn't have. This was also the Commission's view on preventing corruption. Here I have before me another document written by Drago Kos concerning the findings or his analysis of the process of control over the assets of the party presidents. It's not his opinion written on, I don't know, fifteen, sixteen pages. In this opinion, it notes that the Commission has exceeded its powers, considered a period which was not the subject of an investigation, was not covered by the laws, did not call against the constitutional arrangements of the party for the discussion and the arbitration procedure. So some commission that we have in this country to take care of an area is making procedural and substantive mistakes itself. Now I ask all those who were aware that Mr Klemenčič did not report to his committee, which leads him, the property or the company of his wife, what was the behaviour of the coalition Members. The only ones we have pointed out to this problem were Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The only one. Who moved? The President of the Republic? Coalition MPs? The government? No one moved. And I'm assessing that this is a very big and serious problem. Here we have from 2010 the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. This law has several provisions which relate in some way to the adoption of gifts and other matters. It also applies to members of the Senate for the prevention of corruption. Now I ask, in view of what Comrade Gorenak said in his introduction, whether it was a gift to receive in this case. Mr Medja, as Mr Gorenak said in the introduction, offered first the place of this service at the New Ljubljana Bank to Mr Klemenčič. Perhaps Mr Klemenčič has been deciding for a long time whether or not he will take the decision. He must have decided not to. Then he offered the next one, Mr. Praprotenik. This one's obviously been accepted. And here the question is now raised, given that the report or conclusions of Korn Ferry have not been published as long as the Commission has been considering preventing corruption, whether it has been a trade, some agreement, some promise and acceptance of a gift. Or even a gift. I think this is a fundamental issue in this work. This is a completely different kind of action and action, as in the case of Patrie, when we're talking about an unknown place, an unknown way, and so on and so forth. In this case, it is obvious that this delay occurred only because a good job or a well - paid job was expected or offered. Just like it did in some other cases. We have cases of Mr Rope, when he was then defamed by the then Prime Minister Janša, he received a job on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia at the European Investment Bank, the proposed government of Borut Pahor. We have Mr Squill, who has received a job in the European Court of Auditors for the same reasons. And in the case of Mr Praprotenik, we have the case of the new Erurojackpot as regards employment. Eurojackpot to someone who has made an extraordinary effort to create the impression that part of Slovenian politics operates in such a way, allegedly corruptive way, and then received a reward when he gave up early, some rich service within the framework of the New Ljubljana Bank system, which is covered deeply by citizens through debt and tax burdens. None of those who participated in the creation of this bank hole were even named, and the same Commission for the Prevention of Corruption allegedly made a forensic analysis of the situation in the banking system, published a large number of times, did not publish, showed any report it had made, but did not communicate any of this report to the Slovenian public, nor to the Commission of Inquiry, nor to anyone. In this case, the analysis of the banking system and the analysis of Korn Ferry cannot say that it was a – a commission to prevent corruption, but it was a commission to cover up corruption. There is no worse corruption in this country than has been the case in these cases. The sums went out of the system, and nothing happened to anyone. With regard to the definition of corruption or systemic corruption, it is best that you read the Commission's 2010 annual report on anti-corruption in this agenda item. The report was prepared by the Senate of Klemenčičič's commission. And there they wrote very precisely what is systemic or organizational or institutional corruption. This is by definition any achievement or creation of normative institutional status or procedural conditions or circumstances in order to enable the benefit of officials and other natural and legal persons. Now, I ask you, in the handling of Korn Ferry's report, whether this has taken place in this process. Perhaps, almost certainly, such a course occurred. With regard to labour technologies, Mr Medje’s conduct, which, when they reached this Korn Ferry Human Resources Commission, as President of the Supervisory Board, was excluded from the decision-making process. And this Korn Ferry then proposed him as the most suitable candidate to run the biggest Slovenian bank. But before that, he had a series of conversations with them. It was said that the accounts were paid before the contract was signed that the specification was not in the accounts. It must have been Klemenčice's anti-corruption commission. Triumvirat Klemenčič, Praprotnik, Selinšek had to notice this, he had to notice that certain data and that the accounts were not made as they should have been in the business world and that the accounts were also issued for a period not covered by the contract. But when something had to be decided, Mr Medja would be eliminated immediately before that and then became president of the administration. The exact same story happened with Mr Klemenčič. Just before the report on the supervision of Korn Ferry had to be issued, it was excluded from the treatment of the KPK Senate. Somebody tell me this isn't about creating conditions, as defined in their annual report, the conditions for systemic corruption. I also don't understand all those who warn or say with your finger on the SDS. You have had many opportunities, even when considering the property situation, on the basis of an alleged report, you have adopted certain conclusions and actions without in any way being justified or carried out in that report by one table that those numbers are written there or not. Not a single analysis has been done. And you've taken the lead. We have recently considered interpolation against Mr Virant and his airline tickets. There were accompanying accounts, there were documented agreements that had always been denied, and it was submitted, Mr Vogrin acquired and attached to his interpretation, including another contract with the company Propiar, in which Mr Praprotnik's wife operates. How should the Commission, in order to prevent corruption, which is involved in dealing with one of the political parties in one way or another, find and seriously address the problem of the President of the same party, provided that advice and payment have been made on the other? These are the cases we're talking about. And we are also talking about the fact that in Slovenia we have cases of double treatment of politicians, we have double treatment of managers and so on. You know, if we are talking about the biggest Slovenian bank that needs the most public money to stabilise business, then we are talking about the biggest problem of Slovenia. There is no major problem in this country. And if we find that the operation of this company at the summit is not in line with the regulation, we are only obliged to point out that we have signed this requirement for an extraordinary meeting. And responsible policies should also act responsibly. We have also proposed some conclusions or conclusions in six points for the meeting of the National Assembly. I don't think it would be bad if I read those conclusions to you. The first conclusion is probably based on the material we gave, not on an unreasonable expectation that the National Assembly was familiar with the problem. In the second decision, we propose to Banka Slovenije to verify, within the framework of its statutory powers, the recruitment procedures of Roc Pratnik as Director of the Centre for Business Compliance in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which is owned by the majority state, and in accordance with the findings of the appropriate action. If the National Assembly has exceeded its authority in this case, something in this country is seriously wrong. In the third point, we proposed that the National Assembly propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare and adopt the National Assembly proposals for legal solutions that will limit or eliminate systemic corruption in the public and private sectors and as the majority owner of the New Ljubljana Bank implement measures to address corruption risks and corruption in the employment of the New Ljubljana Bank. I do not know what would be wrong with this proposal. Fourth time. The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine existing legislation in the field of the Commission's action to prevent corruption and to propose such legal solutions as would limit the recruitment of Commission officials to employers who have previously been the investigators of the Commission and to lay down stricter and more specific conditions for appointing the Commission's anti-corruption officer. What's the problem here? What is the problem with this conclusion? There is no problem with this conclusion, but the problem is the political will not to do so. The fifth point, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requires the Commission to prevent corruption, to review the work of Roko Pratnik in the work relating to the Novo Ljubljanska Banka d.d., and to introduce a procedure for identifying corruption, infringements of procedures against interests, infringements of ethics and integrity, and to assess corruption risks in the work of Roko Pratnik in relation to procedures where Nova Ljubljanska banka was an investigator. I think it's a perfectly normal proposal for a decision. Sixthly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requires the Commission to prevent corruption to put in place a procedure to determine infringements of procedures contrary to interests, ethical and integrity violations and to assess corruption risks in the employment of the Pratnik Year. I believe that all these points of this Decision are entirely in line with the expectations of the Slovenian public, even in accordance with the powers of the National Assembly in its entirety. At the same time, we are voting on everything these systems need to function is contrary to the integrity of the treatment of individual segments. You know, as far as corporate governance is concerned, it is not the duty of the National Assembly to provide €3 billion or €4 billion for a few months or a year to continue to function, or it is probably also the responsibility or responsibility of this bank to verify what is going on with this money. We are not the only ones, and we must not be the only ones who will provide resources for smooth spending after long and after, there will be a new need for new sources and we will come back to the National Assembly for new money. And then this is where our jurisdiction ends. The Bank may operate corporately, and any other company, if it is financed by itself, to create surpluses. The moment someone comes for the money when he demands a decision from the National Assembly, it is probably the responsibility of the National Assembly to check how this money is handled, which we will have to provide from public funds in one way or another. Mr Mavko said earlier in the introduction that the Government is proposing certain supplements to the Slovenian state holding company's solutions. Just now, what's going to happen? On the one hand we have the Roof Integrity Act, which has one solution, on the other hand we have the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is supposed to have some other solution. Now I am asking whether our goal is to have a uniform functioning of this system of integrity and the public sector, whether we will put the system in place so that it will be ineffective once again, that one part will be subject to one provision, even to the same part of the dual provision and so on. What will this be some systematic control over the operation of the economic system and state-owned companies? Nothing! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u51	Thank you very much. There have been again some changes in the order of the debaters, therefore Mr Franz Pukšič has the first word, followed by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! In the National Assembly, what we can and cannot talk about, however, is the State Choice, in which it must speak openly and clearly, even when it comes to corruption, when it comes to concealment, even if the network, the political network is so connected that it actually harms both the State institutions and the final stage or in the first stage of human life. When we also talked about the interpolation we've been talking about lately, Pikalo, Omerzel, Viran It was interpolation with data, with numbers. If I recall last week, even on one of the TVs of Minister Pikal, they worked so hard that he couldn't even breathe, let alone answer anything. So these interpolations, when we were actually talking about systemic corruption that arose within the parties, within positions that individuals had at some point and then overbooked them, took advantage of. Today's positions have changed and it turns out that everything else was going on here, just not what the money was meant for. After all, huge money around school, some kind of program that was being prepared and so on. What was going on around here, what was going on, and how the public was deceiving itself, was later proved by the papers. And the Virant case that the KPK is supposed to deal with again, of course, I do not expect any spectacular solutions, because this political networking system is obviously strong enough for those on the right hand side that nothing happens. What some have already said today is what the supervisory council should actually do, the government through the supervisory council and so on, if this governance system were to apply, not the system of corruption that is happening in us. At this point, the supervisory board of Mr Medja should absolutely suspend and the new member of the administration should absolutely terminate the contract to Mr Praparatnik until things are cleared up. Not like now that the President of the Supervisory Board resigns. In fact, we should not talk about anything in the National Assembly. But they're taking taxpayers, taking money out of pockets, not the euro per euro, but we're actually killing them with shovels. And maybe I'm a little more specific about what this thing looks like. If you remember journalist Roc Praprotnik, 2005–2009, before the start of the Presidency of Slovenia, the European Union was very publicly dismantled by the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Service and by this government. He published classified information from and around the agency and some other services. Of course, he did not write at the time about the corruption that took place within the intelligence and security services, but let us remember what the Court of Auditors then found, but its purpose was then to overthrow the current government. So after the elections in 2009, when this mandate ended, he was appointed to the KPK Senate. Politics set him up for the prize of overthrowing the government at a time when we were preparing for the Presidency of the European Union. On this basis, he has shown that he is faithful and trustworthy, so he is now apparently sent to a new job. I will quote one of Praprotnik's articles of 12 July 2007, under the heading Nostrils in Crisis. I quote: "The owl is as the main security and intelligence service of the third pillar of the national security system. The months-long affair resulting from the reckless and brutal intervention of the Prime Minister's cabinet in Owo has led to a crisis she has not experienced. Officials believe that Sova is clinically dead, although her leadership sends them encouraging and appealing letters, that everything is in the best order and that they should move on normally. But they find that this is almost impossible because Owl lost confidence in the eyes of co-workers and sources." End of quote. So that's what Mr. Procurator wrote. But I can tell you that as a member and Vice-President of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, I can tell you that Owl is still a lively and lively bird all these years. So nothing, I don't think, has changed the flight. Of course, the author of this article became a member of the 2010 Senate. Not long ago, or in a report that we were able to read by the KPK, we asked him about systemic corruption around banking, even when we had Mr Klemenčič on the Investigative Commission on Banks. Again, I will quote Mr Klemenčič, the former head of the KPK, before the parliamentary commission in January 2014 as follows: "Sometimes credits were also discussed at regular meetings on the Tržaška road in Ljubljana." Today, I am asking you, dear coalition, where you were negotiating the employment of the Ensign in the New Ljubljana Bank. Even in Tržaška near the vampires, did you have a syringe, a pitchfork or something? You see, all of this is a clear indication that it's done completely differently than it should be. One thing is said when you were in office, just as Comrade Tanko had previously read what systematic corruption Klemenčič and his associates wrote. They're doing the same thing today, but look, it doesn't apply because it's not about them. That doesn't apply to them. This applies to all those who are not on the right political side. Those who are not on the political network are all of this. Another example of what's going on. We know Dr. Podbregarje well. He is a third member of the Ljubljana Aerodrome. Recently, Minister Jakič, last year, in his office, hired a consultant, according to the information I have, will say, if they are accurate or not, for a few more than 6,000 euros, the consultant who knows about these matters was in such a place, but was retired, he was also a consultant elsewhere, but at the same time, he is unemployed, as far as I know, according to the information I have, Alojz Steiner, who was Major General of the Slovenian Army and was then Chief, Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army, when she was Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Today Dr. Jelusič is also a member of the coalition, SD is a member of the coalition. And the last time she spoke to an investigative committee was about labs. Now I'm asking her what lab they were cooking this human resources kitchen in, and why she's allowing it. So these are not just elements of corruption, these are facts. How can it be expected that law enforcement authorities, the National Investigation Office, the Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary will simply step on such cases. See, if we agreed here in the National Assembly, we could adopt legislation which would require the authorities to carry out their task for all such matters, not in any way, but in a certain period of time, that means at least half a year, if there are more complicated matters, in a year. According to the data we have, how many judicial authorities we have on the number of people, how much money we spend and what our legal security is, last night it was presented to Minister Plitschani, that if we were to act against corruption, we would do so and take advantage. But that doesn't happen, because we can collide with our own, and these, God forbid anyone touches them. It is totally incomprehensible for me that two years ago the KPK found systemic corruption and, on the basis of those specific cases, there were no complaints. Even more. The Commission of Inquiry has brought charges against some individuals, where it has established a system of corruption, and it does not even move to the prosecution, except to put such a matter on the table. That means there's obviously still holy cows. But if it's "ours", "my" in the "my" network, then they can, but if they're out there and those who deny it to us, we'll stick their fingers in one way or another. Mr Podbregar became a third member of the board, a well-paid service. Why? Yeah, it was obviously a reward for being president of the LDS for a while and so on. If you remember, Mr Podbregar was charged with criminal charges for the suspicion of a crime related to the black Sowe Fund – The Prosecutor did not write about these matters at the time, but he dismantled the then government, as I said – and secretly financed a private company called Webs, as I recall. But I wonder where the rest of them are, in which drawer did these charges remain, whether the political influence is so strong on the police and the prosecution that it does not move. By the way, what kind of highly ethical lawyers talk about a matter and then it's all covered up. So, I wonder why such things are getting into both the prosecution and the court drawers and waiting, apparently, for a hand that's called obsolescence. Remember when there was also talk about one of the judges buying some land from – now, I don't know exactly whether it was from Juret Jankovic, in short, something to do with it, and so on. This was in the previous mandate of the commission of inquiry, how it was legal for someone to make 100, 200, 300, 1,000 euros or even 80, 90% of the profits for sponsorship and so on. I wonder if they're still little gods. And the answer to that question is that the little gods are still. Talking about corruption is allowed, but only if you don't run at our people. The theory of conspiracy is, the theory of conspiracy is not – there is no conspiracy theory in these specific matters that I'm talking about, but these are facts. These are the facts, these are written things. And it happens — nothing. And then people say, "you didn't do it in the National Assembly and you did it, and it didn't happen..." How, though, can we — besides alerting us to these irregularities and to these swinelike things? I told you a few times, look at the Icelandic model, what they did and how they solved the problem. In other countries, too, and if you want, in Serbia they are effectively saving some dirty transactions that we do not save. I say, thank God that we still have the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, because I think that these are two other bodies where there is still some sense, because here in the National Assembly, it doesn't mean anything if you're talking about some things so that someone will take this into account. Here only the argument of power applies, the coalition will do so, regardless of the consequences for citizens and citizens. Instead of dealing with what you will do to free up the blockade of European funds, what you will do to prepare a development programme for the next perspective, 2014 is, we could start pumping and so on. It's all sinking and we're dealing with things like this. If they were a normal country, the government should demand today because, through the congregation, if the supervisory council did not react, it reacts through the congregation with the new supervisory council and so on and prevents these events. But unfortunately, nothing happens. As long as it's like this, we don't have any hope. The fact is, we should adopt legislation where, in such cases, the assets of all, both supervisors and administrations, without the possibility of transferring to relatives, left, right, up and down, freeze until proven that there were no elements of theft, corruption and so on. Until the court has finished its work, this should remain frozen. There's nothing left to hear, and nobody cares how to pay back the money that went to the tax havens, unless someone alerts them, and then we're guilty of tampering, I don't know where to do everything we shouldn't do. However, when such eccentric cases as I mentioned and discussed at the last interpellations, when the papers proved that when the KPK made it clear, we did not get everything, although the minister claimed that he had given it all, they said that they did not, they did not get it, so he lied to the Slovenian public. It's not an interpolation as it is, but it's a systemic corruption that's built into the system, and mine can, and others can't. That's why it's a shame, and that's also the attitude of the ruling coalition, the arrogance of what you've done, how you've responded to conclusions and, of course, you haven't confirmed conclusions. The nation will pay for all of this. Those who are now without jobs, those who will be extra jobless, companies that are closed down because of such policies, clientism and corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. It's Dr. Gorenak's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič, that there will be no fear, the complaints have already been rejected, which you have spoken of, so that it is already taken care of "our" – about the Owl, which you have been talking about. But my topic is next, I'd like to respond a little bit to some things. Both Mr Čehovin and Mrs Hočevareva and Mr Hršak told us that these are topics we should not discuss in the National Assembly. But, my dears, see that we go beyond this and link the matter to the systemic corruption that we're telling you about in the opposition more or less, all of my forerunners now. Look, last year, who's already head of management at the bank? Mr. Lenic. You know him. Whose was it? He was sitting on his left. 23% paid a raise last year. Who delivered him those few truckloads of money, if you say, under quotations, in the form of recapitalisation? Mr. Cuffer did this because you've taken a decision to recapitalise these banks that have made a negative. And who is the person who controls the business of the Bank, the leader of control? You won't believe it – Mr. Chufer's wife. Do you see what a circle that is? Then it's nicely rounded. The decision is taken by the political left here, the government decides with him to send so much and so much money to Abanka, he raises his salary, and the loss helped him make his wife because he's the leader of control. And now you are honking at me, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the coalition parties, so we can't discuss this. Yes, we'll discuss it! As long as such corruption exists! And you say whatever you want, honk whatever you want. But I can see you're already ashamed, because there are only a few other people sitting here who will assign you as duty officers, and then it's over. On the other hand, I'm listening to this sort of murmuring that I don't know if I'd call an ambulance or something. But let's just leave it at that. Look, when we talk about systemic corruption, the situation is relatively clear. Now I've told you on the case of this Ljubljanska Abanka the situation. Yeah, how can someone raise their salary by 23% because they've created a loss, and then the state will cover that loss for him? They are covered by those who have €400 pensions and salaries or are unemployed. And you are hoping that we should not discuss this in the National Assembly. No, it's not. Of course, it is not true, especially the part that Mr Chehovin was talking about, which says that the bank is independent. Of course, it is independent of creating loss, but it should still be covered independently — without citizens. You can't talk about how the bank is tied to just don't know what. Then don't go to the National Assembly for money when she's made a loss. Mrs Hočevareva, of course everything is fine and right, the corruption authorities are working. That contract you made with the Hand of the Procurator is not a crime, but is it – you know what? Suspicion of systemic corruption. Look, this is, and no one's investigating her because it doesn't belong to the police, it doesn't belong to the prosecution because it's not a crime. However, those who should consider it, which is the KPK, are involved and do not consider it. But you help them do that, and then you talk about the independent judiciary, the police, and their success. That's not true! This contract should be dealt with by Klemenčič, the Procurator, Selinskova, and they did not. Because it was his wife. Then, in cooperation with Mr. Klemenčič, the Procurator Rock washed your boss. Just like the KPK washed Mr. Medja. It's the exact same system. He agreed that this Korn Ferry agency would advise, then he said, "I'm getting out, I'm going to the next chair, I'll wait for them to talk about it." And the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption says that it is the supervisory council, the previous one before Mr Arhar, but there is nothing to blame for the former President of the Medja administration. Of course it's not his fault. He said he was supposed to be waiting outside the door when they were voting. And then he takes him to work for the prize. This same Mr. Procurator here weighs 600 grams. These 600 grams are the texts of Mr Praprotenik in 2007 on how Janša and Sanader negotiated the incidents in the Gulf of Piran. He wrote 600 grams of articles, but he didn't write any grams of articles on the subject that Mr. Rob was convicted because he lied because he didn't make any deals. He didn't write that. But he couldn't because he had already cashed the prize for these articles. In fact, he became the head of the KPK. See, that's how it goes. But at this point, we can't quite stop the situation. Mr Hršak here is talking about how much this meeting of the National Assembly will cost. Then let him sit here because he'll get paid. And he's talking about some other stuff, about the appointment that Mr. Chernač or someone has already done, I think, of the heads of administrative units. Those who were later named after the fully party line of the National List in Maribor, however, are fine. It's all right. You can paint someone. [[…]] Someone else. As far as the opposition is concerned, you can't do paint on this subject with me. The essence of my message, which was in the opening act, is quite clear. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has corrected Mr Medja's guilt because he is obviously negotiating for the participation of this agency because he was visiting them, or to prove that he was talking to them about marjets in Šmarjekske Toplice or what I know, I don't know what would go abroad to talk about. And the commission washed him of his guilt. He wanted to take Mr. Klemenčič to work for the prize. Then he's the Hand of the Praetor. This is a major problem for this country. But this problem does not only exist in this case, and the injustice would only be done to a person who is written Rock Prator, but it is a systemic problem of this country. The systemic problem of this country, which is emerging at all political levels, where the left political option may interfere. On all levels. And in such a case, of course, it is extremely easy to rule. There are no demonstrations when you raise all the taxes that exist in this country. There's no demonstration. Everyone praises you in "cajgtengs" and so on and so on and so forth, because everyone also makes sure that everything is fine. On the other hand, it's a little bit harder, and on the other hand, on this side -- we have cases like this -- you're writing a hundred requests because you're not an MP anymore, and you're not getting a job, and that's true. So you know, as long as they show up, it's called systemic corruption. [[…]] And that's the problem I was talking about, and that's the problem I was talking about. And until these phenomena are eradicated and eliminated – there are more procedures and ways, including the sale of property, state property, one of them – we will not reach the green branch until then. Until then, we will have as ministers those whom Mr. Medja does not wish to serve as members of the administration. Then they become ministers. Well, that's also consistent with the height of the salary, I guess, or whatever. I think there's been a solution. And as for the minister who, of course, isn't here because he sent the Secretary of State, according to my information, you know how you beat us up in 2009. Why did Mr Kramar give a million awards and point to Prime Minister Janša at the time, ask questions of the Members and work well in front of the people. Who signed that contract? The LDS member, as he already wrote, I don't know anymore. But who composed the formula for a million prizes, Mr. Chufer, is a co-author of the awards, co-author of that famous formula that brought in a million euros at the end. And then for the prize, you become a minister. That's how you're gonna fuck this country up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. What exactly is the purpose of this extraordinary session? Whether it's a debate about everything possible, a game for the public, we're talking about patriotism, which is what we're talking about here today, we have a debate club, the people will also pay for 25 minutes of self-expression. It all costs money, but I don't know what effect it's gonna have. I know that there is a lot to be arranged in this country, but with legislation, laws, not with such dreaming and debate about everything. At first I thought the problem was Rok Praprotnik, and it is a problem that the NLB supervisory council must solve, not the National Assembly, it is not our task, the Supervisory Council, then the government and action. I think something's gonna happen here. The companies in which the country has a majority share – we know how problems are solved, the role of the supervisory councils. Why would I teach you this here today, even though you have now come to the National Assembly, there were four people sitting there before, no financier and any great interest, including on your part, who have made a request for a debate, there are actually no such content. It's true that we're all angry at banks. If we start with European, finance and other ministers, I don't have any satisfaction with the director of the NLB, nor with the NLB, the Bank of Maribor, if I say so, since he was previously a freeman and a lot of things. We could share these names here now, a little bit of you to us, a little bit of you, I think a little bit more to you, but it'll be nothing. Look, I did my best, and I wrote a letter to the director of the NLB saying that he's shutting down some ATMs in very remote places. I mentioned the Pohori pond and something else. He didn't even give me an answer, and he won't give it to me, because what I heard last time, an interview with him on TV, answers vehemently, masters everything, everything is fine and so on. But we have to ask the supervisors after health, and they have to arrange things so that we don't close this bank space, and foreigners will come with banks, ATMs, and much more to our territory. And when someone tells me, specifically, the Medja on TV, how they take care of the boards, the taxpayers, how they serve them, and so on, and we know where the exhibition is cut off, it's a big bluff. But that talk doesn't lead anywhere today. I wrote to him, and I'll remind him that I'm still waiting for an answer, and I won't give him peace until he tells me why he's going into such an action, when these people who don't have access to an ATM today, and they have to, I don't know, 19, 15, 20 kilometers away from a service, they've allowed their pockets to make him finally have that kind of personal income and that he's a loser all over the line. But that's actually the problem for everyone. If we look at what financial experts in Europe are able to do, and when they speak, Spain is out of the crisis, thank God, Greece is out of the crisis and there are millions of unemployed. There are banks outside the crisis, not the people of this European Union. And I don't care much if there's only banks when people are out of the crisis, when there's a smaller number of unemployed when we live modestly, but normally, then I'll say we're out of the crisis. I am sure that maybe in two hours there will be almost no more in here because there is such a debate, even now mine has no value in solving the problems that are waiting for them to come forward, and we will survive this one day and start tomorrow with the new content that needs to be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Ficko. He's not in the hall right now. Mr. Tinker Bell, then Vogrin and then Katarina Hochevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Outside the crisis, we will not be able to push our heads into the sand and talk about the fact that the debate in the National Assembly is irrelevant and unnecessary. At the same time, those who have the option of deciding where this city is were rejecting proposals for solutions. Today, we are supposed to talk about the causes of systemic corruption in us, about corruption risks, about why, despite the strong talk and the strong efforts that we hear of being invested in preventing these practices, this phenomenon is growing. And if we had responsible authority, today the President of the Government would be sitting here, at least from the beginning, here would be the full hall of those who decide in this country, and from your mouth would listen to words on how to start working in this country once in a year in this area. Those would be the words of responsible authority, and of course we didn't hear them because these people weren't here. We can count them on both hands now as well as because you're not in love. We've seen many times that there is no will in this authority. This power wants to continue because at this time, we are painting people by fighting corruption, by making them a social state, by making them pensions, pensions, for a small person, and at the same time by singing revolutionary songs at least once a year at the Stožice, taking from both pockets what is left of them. And those who are most responsible sit in the front row. These are the ones who occupy this nation in Slovenia, which you take from its pockets what little it has left. That's why you're not here today in the hall, and that's why it wasn't in the Hall of the President of the Government today, because you're afraid of the people in the face to tell you what you're doing in the background. It is unreasonable that none of the six proposals have been adopted. At least the one who speaks of the State Assembly proposing to the Government that it examine existing legislation in the field of the Commission's action to prevent corruption and proposes such legal solutions as would limit the recruitment of Commission officials to employers who have previously been the investigators of the Commission and lay down stricter and more specific conditions for appointing the Commission's anti-corruption officer could be adopted and dealt with. Especially because there were many words to hear that this choice that we had received before the time was not the most appropriate choice. Or even more important, the decision that the National Assembly proposes to the Government to prepare and adopt the National Assembly proposes legal solutions that will limit or eliminate systemic corruption in the public and private sectors, and as the majority owner of the New Ljubljana Bank implements measures to address corruption risks and corruption in employment in this bank. You said no. Thus, you do not want to let the Government, unless it does so itself, propose that something be done in this area so that it is not allowed in this National Assembly to discuss the strong billions that you have committed not only to the largest state bank, but also to private banks, but also to take measures that will address further not only corruption risks, but to continue to take place in these institutions. Today it has been said that in this debate we are beyond the powers we have with regard to the banking system to interfere with the autonomy of an independent institution. Interesting. Or when you spent billions on NLB and other banks, did you not interfere with the autonomy of this independent institution? Why didn't you then refer to this autonomy and say, "Sorry, help yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, as you know and know." To those of you who have lent them hundreds of millions, step on your fingers, remove money from them, and help yourself. The National Assembly and this people do not intend to interfere with your inappropriate business decisions. Why didn't we hear that when hundreds of billions of euros of money had to be given from people's pockets to those who obviously can't manage and manage it and still pay their fabulous wages every month, even though they can't manage it properly and responsibly? Because if someone hires a staff service agency to elect a chairman of the board of directors and two members who have not been employed, one of them says with secondary education, paying 680 thousand euros for this – excuse me, what do we need these people in these banks if they are management, and if they have to ask the staff agency to put the president of the board of directors?Oh, my God! Has anyone ever been responsible for this? Has anyone been asked why money after unnecessary swords from our pockets in the trash? When we asked the Minister of Finance whether it was delicious that, at a time when tens of millions of euros were being paid for the payment of loans to the bank-capital tycoons, the employees of the New LB so-called timbilding somewhere on the shore of the two sailboats, where everything was paid for by the bank, we did not get an answer. The Minister said that that is why we are not competent and he, as Minister of Finance, will not answer this question, how much it cost, who approved it and why it is done. Does this debate really need to be carried out from this bulwark outside in order to obtain answers to such questions? Is it true that the moment has come when it will be necessary to do so in order to be aware of the seriousness of the situation? Is this tolerant threshold of the Slovenian people, which is very high, really still so high that it is no longer attainable. For the way you are going, and the attitude you say to the administration of this country, the empty hall today, and the fact that there was no government president present, and that it did not say decisively that it would stand on the brink, speaks of the unfortunately approaching of this threshold. But who will eventually take responsibility for what will follow. The Corruption Commission? As this is not the Commission to prevent corruption, take into account the way it has worked over the past 10 years, which is a clear and transparent talk about Slovenia's being placed in a disgraceful place among those countries most at risk of corruption over the past 10 years. Therefore, one part of the reasons is also in the inadequate functioning of this Commission. For if the operation were appropriate, in God's name, within 10 years there should be some results. However, it is not that we are increasingly onboard or in black, rather than being increasingly brighter than the countries of the north, which do not have such organs, but have effective prosecutions, prosecutors and judges who know what their business is, and who do it significantly more effectively than we do and for significantly less money given the number of things solved than we do. So something's wrong. It is said that this commission was a kind of political body, some, in saying, a party commission, which has taken care of every so long that some policy has been mirrored, has tried to get away from the political scene. But at the very least, of course, a little mud, it got dirty if he was running for mayor somewhere, that he didn't have the best chance of making it. And, of course, a good year ago, the final removal of the other Janša government. This was the highlight, the task accomplished to the end and now follow the prizes. One was already awarded a high-ranking job on 1 April. It is not an April 1st joke, and with April 1st, Mr Rok Praprotnik took the place of a certain director, where a certain person had probably done this work before, while he had investigated the same bank and, as we have heard, eliminated himself in the finalisation of this investigation. Did he have appropriate references, appropriate knowledge? Surely it came purely on the basis of appropriate references, on the basis of the relevant knowledge, there was a call for proposals and I believe that, if there were a thousand candidates, it would be the most appropriate and also as such selected. There was no other motive here. People aren't stupid, you can't tell people not to see, you can hear grass growing. They can see what's going on. And instead of taking this matter seriously and starting with these real risks, which say that this tissue in this country is so painful that the cancer part is already significantly above the healthy part, and that it becomes a warning of deviations, of systemic corruption a disorder that needs to be addressed not vice versa. We have come so far that those who talk about what needs to be done in this area are disturbed because we are distorting some average image that has been created in this country in recent years or in the last decade. And, of course, in order to virtually create the image of this fight against corruption, you need an organ like we have witnessed in this case. In the past, however, he was no less political than he was now taken over by the Positive Slovenia. Only that this picture is now clear, now it is known that this is the commission of Positive Slovenia, but before that it was not known from the outside. But it was the same commission, and Mr Dusan Kumar was the chairman of this elective Senate, and there were the same people about now who named Mr Stefanec, only that these people were a little less politically exposed. Although he was appointed President, Deputy Kresalova, Minister of the Interior, is said to be a politically very high man in the hierarchy of political power, and for another man, Mr Rok Praprotnik, who has now received this award in the form of a director's seat at the New Ljubljana Bank, which was then found to not even meet the conditions for appointment. He didn't have ten years of work experience. And no one in this country, ever since this was exposed, has found out, but we have an administrative, work and I don't know what kind of inspection is possible. Apparently, all of this case was somehow pushed away, so that it was no longer visible on the table, and they preferred to deal with cases where it was possible to cover up real problems in one way or another. For it follows from these certificates which we have here in the works that Mr Praprotnik graduated in October 2000. And when he was appointed Vice-President of the KPK, the ten years have not passed. These missing months of work, however, have been the result of the certification of the work of the Human Resources Service, which he then signed, you will not believe, Mr Jurij Giacomelli, who is now also employed in the New Ljubljana Bank, and on the part where the new staff are appointed, for this, I think the Secretary-General is concerned about these selection procedures, the Human Resources Commission and so on. Thus, this Mr Jurij Giacomelli, who has now probably taken care of the formal part of the procedures for appointment to the New Ljubljana Bank, was then Chairman of the Management Board of Dela, 2010, in August, and he wrote that Mr Praprotnik has been engaged in contractual work and the tasks of the journalist from 1995 to September 2001 and that the seventh level of university education has been required for this. And although he did not have it at the time because he did these hard work, he gained experience. Then the job was a week after that, and later it issued an appropriate explanation stating that the work was done on the basis of an order from the author. But is the work done in order to do things within the regular working relationship? Haven't we read somewhere that some inspectors recently found out that because someone was doing something under an copyright contract, they should be busy, that's wrong? But it was ordinary mortals, for those who could be treated and processed. Apparently, it wasn't a common mortal. And not only has no offence been committed, no proceedings have been initiated, but even through this it has been confirmed the relevant experience, which was lacking in that the candidate for another KPK man was appropriate at the time. This collapse in the New Ljubljana Bank is not new, of course, we have witnessed it in the past, when the President of the Management Board was named the man who should have sat on the parliamentary chair here in the National Assembly. Later, we witnessed to the former vice-governor, Mr Sam Vnučič, who was in charge of control, so that the bank would not do what they had done, so that these uncontrolled loans would not be given back to those who were unable to repay them, and then came to a high place in the New Ljubljana Bank. Moreover, Mr Božo Jaševič, also in Banka Slovenije, has become President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. A while ago, we heard that there were different people going around asking questions about the Sokovica loan, when these 100 million will be granted, which have now landed among the bad loans and will be repaid by people. That's what he said in public. Not to mention Mr Jankovic, who has repeatedly publicly boasted that he lobbyed for this credit at the bank, with the leaders. Has any procedure against any of these been initiated, or has anyone been responsible for this 100 million? It's not about 10 or 100 euros, 100 million euros is just in this case a loan that was known at the moment it was approved to never be returned. And 100 million euros will have to be returned by people, taxpayers, on the basis of the decisions of Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, Desus and Virant List, or the National Gazette. And no one's responsible for anything. And none of those who have received property over it have a frozen dime of this property. It is likely that in time, when this is forgotten, someone will be offered a reward within the city or even within the country, with what kind of credit this loan has been granted. This is the case in this country because the debate on important things is closing and because the current authorities are acting irresponsiblely on these issues. Yesterday we were with a group of Members visiting in one of the regions, in the Savinij-Shale region, and one of the locals who had been retired for several years, asked me: "Tell me why I have 41 years of working age, I have worked fairly my whole life, just over 600 euros in pension. And why does my colleague over there across the northern border in Austria have one more pension for the same job than I do? Why?" Probably because of the fact that billions of people are not allowed to know anything about anything except that someone is betting on them for these billions of bills. I think that, unfortunately, even today, or you have missed one of the possibilities for this pensioner and many others not only to the present, but also to the future, to look into the eyes and to take measures that would allow at least in the future to make sure that this is not as it was said in this man's mouth. However, because it is as it is, I think that both the pensioner from Ljubnovo ob Savinja and the many current and future pensioners will ask for some time why they have half the pension for the same work as their colleagues in neighbouring Austria. Probably because in front of their eyes, they're being stolen by those who sit in front of them at revolutionary events, like they did a year ago in the Colossals.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u60	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! If we take a closer look at the CVs of individuals, politicians, journalists, bankers, members of political parties, we can find not only that they are politically prostituted but also that they are dealing with political fraud. For personal benefit and for the benefit of their own, and for the privilege of obtaining, they also address and draw others to a political brothel. The most common method is the media lynch method after a pre-tested pre-prepared scenario, which has so far been successful in Slovenia in 90%. The prizes for political prostitution are very inviting. They appear in various forms, for example in the form of a well-paid job for a prostitute, his family member or a relative. Furthermore, as a rich donation to a political party and from there at least partly into the pocket of a prostitute. Furthermore, as a standing order by a government authority to an undertaking that is favoured or associated with a prostitute. Of course, prizes for political prostitution are also offered directly in money, but they are rarer than people think. Thus, about 5 % of the annual turnover of individual state-owned enterprises, banks and other entities from state-owned and parastatal companies is transferred. Orders from these companies are generally obtained only by prostitutes, connected companies, indirectly or directly, mostly well-covered. Connections are largely so hidden that they are difficult to detect and even harder to identify or define. Some journalists are also involved in this story, which are highly rewarded for media coverage of certain matters, and even more often for silence and carpet sweeping. That is why we can follow up on cases where literally the same matter of two different persons is dealt with entirely differently by the media. If a prostitute is involved in the story, of course, it ends quickly also to avoid exposing political pimps and other political prostitutes in the case. Of course, not all media are the same; of course, there are exceptions or distributions around Gaussian curves. This network is the most powerful informal organization in Slovenia, which operates according to the principles of the Mafia clans. It sows fear, uncertainty, people's works lay low, benevolent, and in every way tries to take their dignity and self-respect. She's been very successful so far. Keep an eye on the environment where you live and work, you will certainly discover causal, political connections. This pimp-prostitution network is the one that is most afraid of being the devil of the cross, of independent individuals, of the most economical people, so a detailed plan to remove economic operators from politics is being drawn up. What I've read now, I'm actually going to say. I did not do this for this case, this is page 96, 97, which I wrote a year ago, April 9, 2013 was published by this book Why Slovenia went bankrupt. See how I have precisely identified the problem of Slovenia. Not on the case of the Hand of the Praetor. Here they are generally described, in this book, such examples. You know, after a year, I find not only that I could only write Rok Prator or this or them. This has led Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, to bankruptcy. And I ask you, is it clear to me that it is enough for you to sit here and watch Members and Members not like Mr Janko Weber, the current president of the National Assembly, when he sat in the opposition bench to "see the theft of the century"? This is, ladies and gentlemen, the place of the millennium, what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u61	Thank you very much. It's mag. Katarina Hočevar then Branko Grims, Happy Meh and Stanko Stepišnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. One nice hello again! I will try to say something about today's topic in a reasoned way, or my view of the problem, and I will make a special effort not to act like a trumpet. However, in the first place, since the company or company Propiar’s contract with the Group of Members of the Civil Code has been exposed, it may present this in another aspect. Look, Goran Klemenčič's wife, Mrs Nina Zidar, we all know that she is Mr. Goran Klemenčič's wife, and she was your party's attorney. However, this has never been a problem for us, or we have talked a lot, whether Mr Janša has any protection or perhaps the other way around. For Mr Roc Praprotenik, I tell you that I really didn't know whether he had a wife or whether he was single or married three times. And it's a company that has 10 employees, I think, around 10, the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette signed this contract, I think, with Nina Tomažin. And with whom Mr Praprotenik is married, I am sorry, but this is indeed the Members of the Civil Gazette, who indeed had an education with this agency, and I personally believe that we did not know that. Last but not least, if it is a company that has more than 10 employees and has once a year, once or twice this contract has been for several thousand euros, it is now difficult to agree to any thresholds and connections that it has resolved or that this is a key contract for the existence of this company, whose co-owner or employee or what I know is that it should be a wife or whatever, something from the Procurator's Year. So that's what I know in this matter, and I think it's only fair to say, because this case has been exposed several times. Now, on the subject of staffing in state-owned enterprises; see, what is the problem is that in 2001 57 of the 90 members of the National Assembly helped Laško to win the brewery war. And that so many decades later our banks also need billions of taxpayers' money. This is a problem, even in the position of the Group of Members, I wanted to stress only that this meeting would not be necessary if the national interest had not prevailed decades ago. And although I did not play in those years, I did not play in the sandbox anymore, as someone likes to stress, but I do know something that at that time began to win the so-called national interest, and then also began the so-called tycoon stories and acquisitions. And Janez Drnovšek of Zagorje, if I read what I hold back when I read the newspapers from that period, was the only politician who then warned that we were not going the right way. And if he couldn't turn the matter around at the time, then of course I'm not pretending to be an MP from Zagorje 15 years later, and I'm just going to convince Katarina Hočevar of any political elite that we have to withdraw as soon as possible from the ownership of the banks. And, look also in the previous government, remember when we made up the coalition contract, one other party demanded that we inscribe that 25 % of the ownership of NLB should be owned by the State, not by the National Gazette, and then our then Minister Šuštersič warned that it was possible to offer a greater share to a foreign investor. But we didn't get any further than negotiations or coordination. And now that we have finally rehabilitated the banks, of course, it is my position and also our client's position to be resold as soon as possible, because the SKB did not have to recapitalise anyone else with tax money. But there are only seven Members, three Ministers and that is the price of state ownership, what I don't know, I think for the hundredth time I repeat in the National Assembly, as long as the state owns, then of course it will also interfere with the staffing and then either on the left or on the right and also on the middle will always be such problems and, of course, even maybe justifiable or unjustifiable charges on all sides. So, this is what Slovenia should do, what Slovenia needs bloodyly during this period, accelerated privatisation, and, of course, proper management of what will remain as a strategic investment. But for the first time in a hundred years, this is the price of national interest, which also started in this National Assembly, this was the victory of the brewery war, if we call it, and that's when it all started. And look, today we are where we are, I hope that common sense wins and that at least in this area we make some moves for the better. Either the Hand of the Procurator in the NLB will be employed or even if not, it is not essential. More importantly, our children and grandchildren will no longer have to recapitalise state banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Look, you've been in this coalition for a year, and this coalition has decided to recapitalise two private banks, the Factor Bank and Probank, with cash and billions of guarantees, a billion and 30 euros was a lot of guarantees. What is the national interest here, in this case? If you've decided to finance a purely private story and give it a billion euros and a few more? Don't talk about these things on the run and do things that don't stand up. As for the story of the brewery war. This is just one detail at some stage, but the continuation of the process of national interest was already done immediately after 1991 when the lustration was not performed. There it was this national interest and for those who had, held positions and worked in these areas. Only transformations were made, the transformation phase, in order to result in tycoon ownership. Also in recent times, I think that the agency was led by Romane Logar, pointed out many violations in the trials, there in 1992, 1993. But what was the epilogue of this and that Drnovsky government? The termination of the agency, the division in two parts and the proceedings continued in the same way with all criminal injuries and so on. At that time, only a few control procedures identified some one billion marks of damage to public property. But those who found out were penalized, suspended, the institution was abolished, and the rest were unemployed. That's how it turned out. And these naive interpretations of our history are little for hair. With regard to the banking system and what is happening with the management of state property, we have come into a situation where current supervisors are essentially unable to choose a director. They don't know how to pick a director anymore. We appoint the most prominent persons to the supervisory councils, or they are named by politics, and they hire an agency to bring someone to a leading position in a state firm or a bank. This has become crazy! And the one who first initiated the procedure at the New Ljubljana Bank to hire a human resources agency was said to have been, according to the Journal of 2 April, exactly Mr. Medja. He was the one who obviously made all these arrangements, just before it was necessary to decide, withdrew from this decision-making process and, miraculously, this richly paid agency from abroad, proposed him as director. Finally, he was elected director of the largest Slovenian bank. Something similar must have happened in another case, very analogous. Let us also say that, as previously stated in the introduction to Mr Gorenak, Mr Medja has first asked if Mr Klemenčič would become a member of this Investment Control Centre. What did Mr. Klemenčič do? Firstly, the procedure did not end within the time limit promised, which was probably the first step. Secondly, he did not inform anyone of a conflict of interest and of an unseemly offer for someone who investigated the action in this particular case. That's the problem. Did he report the lobbying? Did he make an offer? Did he trigger any kind of procedure? Nothing happened. Nothing. When Mr Praprotenik received his offer, he left this package of controls a week earlier and found nothing at all, as if everything was in the best order. It's creating conditions for an act. And in this case, I think it was an act of conduct. When we asked Members to report on cooperation, given that in the 2010 report some companies' dependence on the government, which operated or managed a country for a certain period of time, we requested that this same matter be supplemented by the KPK, that they report on how their family companies cooperate with the public sector. Do you think they wanted to report this? They're not. Did they want to complete the report with this? They're not. If we have such a prevention commission that ignores all these key things, then there must be a major problem in this country. On the one hand, they reveal each meeting with anyone, even if you go to coffee and you get some 100 euros in end or a thousand euros in fines from the same commission, but when they meet in cases of negotiation I don't know, in this case there has been an obvious interruption of control and determination of responsibility, but nothing happens. Nothing happens when we want the Council of State or the Commission of Commissioners responsible for this to do so. The President shall not convene a meeting, shall not invite anyone to supplement the conclusions, shall not exercise control over the property situation. And her coalition is here, in which case she's fully assisted. We must work in these areas if we are to take steps in this area. Where infringements have been identified, certain sanctions must also be adopted. There's something else I'd like to warn you. I don't think this Giacomelli-Procurator thing is a coincidence. Mr Giacomelli then signed to the Praetor and acknowledged some status, even though he did not fulfil it. He was Director of Del, and it is interesting that this Commission has stumbled against many MPs in the National Assembly who did not meet the conditions or anything was wrong with some of the conditions they have written somewhere, such as educational conditions, some of them here. However, this Commission did not go into an analysis of what had happened to Mr Praprotenik, and it had in some fashion come to meet the conditions. It didn't work out, they didn't find anything on it. Now this Mr Giacomelli has become the secretary of the largest bank in Slovenia, and after some conversion he has regained some kind of cooperation or guidance, to the employment of Mr Praprotnik in some banking work. I think that these things are going on in such a very opaque way and in particular in an agreed manner. And after what this commission wrote in its 2010 report, how they defined this systemic corruption, they wrote the following. "In the case of systemic corruption, as we will see below, the restriction on the Republic of Slovenia is crucial, it is necessary to further define the situation in which individuals or stakeholders, either in terms of the interests of organised crime, capital, interest groups, authorities' organisations, create an environment in which they plan and systematically exploit institutional, organisational, human and other mechanisms of power to achieve corrupt, illegal, unethical criminal and other similar purposes and objectives. The preparatory phase of this situation is characterized by a more or less pronounced neglect or reduction of the importance of legal and ethical standards, the emergence and development of smaller interest groups – a click to take advantage of others, the placement of representatives to click on public functions, the illegal and unethical requirements of officials in the performance of their public tasks, the undermining of relations, the creation of an environment of fear, suspicion and uncertainty." Practically in this case it is a matter of some agreement between those who should examine and find out something and those who were the investigators, but they used this opportunity to offer someone something, something big, strong, and then this finding was not carried out as it should have been, and as it would have been expected. At the same time, these same persons, the same persons who have been given a mandate to investigate unethical conduct in the public sector, in the economy, in the case of officials, act quite differently when it comes to any other person who is not on their popularity list. It's totally different. Marginal things, if even marginal, are defined as a major problem and discredit the person to the place. This anti-corruption commission, including Mr Praprotnik, was able to incriminate citizens of the Republic of Slovenia because they were supposed to slander the anti-corruption Commission. Whether those who are now in the investigation procedures and who have been defamed by the Commission to prevent corruption should also serve the procedures of the complaints and actions against members of the Senate of the current KPK. Is this the level of communication and some serious surveillance? I think that when we talk about cases of these jobs in the largest bank, especially because it was enormous sums of public money, it was also necessary to have some high standards here. We are not now talking about a company that can live on its own from its work and the results of its work, but we are talking about a company or society that needs a huge amount of citizens to be able to carry out the tasks for which it is intended and, on the other hand, the officials of this bank are spending this system practically on wages and other ratings and things of enormous amounts and should not even ask them – this is bad, which is what the coalition in some way wants to achieve in this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The story of former KPK officials is exactly the same story as what we read in Orwell's Animal Farm: all animals are equal, only pigs are more equal than others. And then what happens is that we have a bank that we're saving with bloodyly earned taxpayers' money, with what makes this coalition raises new and new taxes every day and destroys the Slovenian economy in order to channel money especially into the largest bank, which is the Ljubljana Bank. And look at the miracle, someone who's done one dirty job for them somewhere, suddenly gets a big job there. Isn't that interesting? Someone who has never had experience in a banking system, someone who is not an educated financier, someone who does not have any specialization in banking, suddenly becomes one of the leaders in the money taxpayers saved by a bank. What is it called in a democratic Europe? Yeah, corruption, but... That is said, instead of the Commission for the prosecution of corruption, we have the Commission for the realisation of systemic corruption, for the conduct of those who rely on it all the time and who, in fact, you owe it your authority. We really have come a long way in this country! Indeed, we should also inform Brussels in fact that it will know what institutions exist in this love of Slovenia. So that things are called by the right name. After all, all the events of the past two years become simple and transparent, then they are seen in the real light. If you no longer have a commission to prosecute corruption but a commission to realize systemic corruption by means of the current political majority or those in power. Because this is corruption, ladies and gentlemen, according to all the standards that Europe knows, it is to abuse political power, if you have, say, somewhere in a bank, a majority, the possibility of deciding that you are there to hire the person who did a certain task for you is purely ordinary corruption, but nothing else. This is said, I now expect Mr Rok Prafortnik to indict himself immediately and, of course, also accept the relevant sequences and to indict Mr Medja and all of you who have held this stand. That'd be the only thing fair. Then, very interesting is this argument, czech, those who have chosen these people and these members, when it comes to the new KPK composition, and they are not politically placed. Now I really want to know if in this country we're all gonna be crazy or something. If someone's a minister, he's set up politically. If someone is the president of the country, he is a politician, he is elected politically. If anyone is a Member, he is a politician, he is elected politically. It's all politics and nothing but politics. And it's exactly the same thing, either the president of the state or the government or the National Assembly. The only difference is that if the entire National Assembly sets it up, the opinions of those who are in power and those who are in position. You say the entire spectrum, which at that moment in politics is present at the time of the last elections. If anyone is appointed by the Government, he is present in such a appointment, which is political and nothing but political, only that part of the authority that is at that moment in the executive branch of power, while the opposition is excluded from it. And if someone is appointed by the President of the State, of course, this is exactly the political option that the President is deriving from. The moment he became president, of course, he did not reject his conviction, not his history, not his personality, but he remained exactly what he was. And he's a politician. And every appointment he makes is political. The rest, however, is purely mere conjecture. And that's why we've been listening here today to such a collection of nonsense on this subject that it wasn't bigger. All those who participated in this election there, and all those who appointed these people, specifically Mr Pratnik and Mr Klemenčič, formerly former President of Türk, are politicians and nothing more than politicians. The appointment was political. Who were these people? Those who once served a politician or served a politician and who, as politicians themselves, had to step down because of some corruption affair and then declared them the only ones who were happy to judge the corruption of everyone else. Fantastic, isn't it?Oh, my God! And then what happens to you is what happened to Mr. Rok Pratnik, that you have someone who was put up politically, who also among his colleagues was not exactly known for the quality of his products when he was still working in journalism, at least after what we could read in the newspapers when it came to his appointment, but then suddenly he was the only one who could judge and choose about everyone else, and he was talking about who was corrupt and who was not, the key person, the other person of the commission. When he finishes his career, suddenly – look at what happens – we have a bank in which millions, hundreds of millions of millions, actually billions of euros have poured taxpayers' money, and this very person, who is supposed to be a symbol, an example of his own conduct and personality in the fight against corruption, is corruptly placed in this bank. Good morning, Slovenia! If there is anything here, even in that defense that was a little earlier by one of the members of the coalition, which, of course, has no argument for it, because you all know that this is what is sometimes called a big mess, sometimes called corruption, but everyone will call it purely ordinary crime. And it's hard to defend. I believe you have a problem today. That's why the vast majority aren't even in the hall today. Because they're ashamed. That's why they're gone. Good job on who you are. It's not smart that you are, but it's good that you have the courage at least. And they don't have the spines and the courage to get out of the coalition, because they know that this is impossible to defend, what this coalition is doing, putting those who do some dirty work for them into extremely well-paid functions in a banking system that is being rehabilitated by taxpayers' money. Which, of course, is corruption according to all EU standards and exactly what everyone is supposed to be chasing. You know, it's all, in fact, if I finish, just one more piece of evidence for the fact that in this country, under the current coalition of transitional left-wingers, it's not the same for everyone, not the constitution or the law. All right, except one, but Murphy's marriage, whatever they're telling you, they're always talking about money.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Meh, then Eva Irgl, Richard Branisel and Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen [[...]] [[mobile phone sound]] One tow.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u69	Mr. Meh, this is probably, check if it's your phone because you have [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u70	Yeah, it's me.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u71	That's your phone, yeah. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u72	I'm sorry. The topic is actually extremely important today. Important not because of who's in the hall or who's going out now, whether he has courage or not, but it's important because things that some people don't say today should not be heard here in the National Assembly, but simply somewhere else, in another place, not in a court of law, somewhere where we could talk as if we were talking, say, in the inn, but there are often debates that are very cultivated. That's why everyone who's not here today has a hat down. They don't have to listen to all this. And I think you don't care what some people need to say here and there. So if you listen to Dr. Arhar, what he said on the committee, and what I read, Dr. Arhar actually said that there was something wrong with corporate governance, that politics was going into that area with this question that you gentlemen from SDS are asking today. With this issue, politics has put itself in an area where it should not be. Intruding in execution. Dr. Arhar said something else. He said that the result of such management was poor in state banks compared to others. However, it was the policy that was constantly involved in what we call corporate conduct. Politics shouldn't do that. Today's debate has the same print as all other debates, a similar print. The SDS' impression that it will continuously launch extraordinary sessions and talk about everything at these sessions, accuse inadvertently and talk about everything and anything. That's why I'm gonna say it like this. Today someone was talking about the Security Intelligence Committee. He talked about how systemic corruption was there – yes, ladies and gentlemen, during a period of time, seven SDS members were employed in the service involved. I can prove it. And that is why it seems to me that, in fact, when we are talking about systemic corruption, the problem is that we should be very argumentative, that we should move ahead of our threshold, and that we should, for example, ask which minister had in his drawer a year or two of the requests for Patricia, what happened then, what we did, ladies and gentlemen. You know, I'm still gonna ask you when Bear was named. Can you tell me when Bear was named? In 2012, when, ladies and gentlemen, you had every opportunity to prevent this appointment then, of course, you did not do so. Of course, you did this by being in the regular congregation in 2012. 12. In 2012, a new supervisory committee was appointed at the shareholders' assembly at that time – I can read it all because it says so – and of course this supervisory committee also called the Media. And today you are accusing him of, in fact, you, ladies and gentlemen, who have also appointed him through the Assembly and all that the Assembly represents. But I'll read you what it says in the papers, if you're interested. Let's say in 2005. How much of the economic network has the new ruling coalition already developed. The seats, for the first time, are all supervisory functions in the capital and compensation companies, secondly, occupied supervisory functions in NKBM, the Insurance Company Triglav, four infrastructure companies, in Telekom, Post Slovenia, DARS, ELES, Kad and the Court set up their administrations. Who's talking about systemic corruption? Of course, I think that this is systemic corruption and that we should talk about this systemic corruption and listen to something that should be changed in all of us, with no one in particular should be excluded. And then Matjaž Janša, for example, became President of the Supervisory Board of the Post of Slovenia Or should I continue to read this? Here it is written, documented, published, said, and I can also talk about all the other members of the SDS and others who have performed all these functions, say, about Tomaž Toplak, if you want to, if you want to, about, say, Andrijani Starina Kosem, Milan Podpečan. Anyone else? We could also talk, say, about Milan Čadež, about Anton Štyhc, Mayor of Posnica Venceslav Senekovic, in the Post of Slovenia Matej Perger, in the Insurance Office of Triglav, for example. Now let's see in 2012. This will be an interesting year 2012 – how does Jansev's government recruit? The company that runs the Triglav National Park – the new control council, Ogrinova and Janša come from SDS, then Anton Urh, Cuznar. Mura, I'll read to you how the Mura Agency was, what did you do there, say how Sasha Lavric took on a mission. I'll tell you what God's Chamberlain did, where the supervisor was. Let's say that the appointment of Andrej Kisilak, Igor Camplin, such as Telekom's supervisors, who were also replaced from the cabinet, says here, Minister Zvonk Černač, just before now that they sent an e-mail to AUKN with instructions on what the AUKN should do, which they wrote in the cabinet of Minister Cernač, and sent by Montenegrin Secretary of State Igor Solomon. How was the recall, the appointment of new members of the Governing Council, how was it then? Who do you think wrote this? "It is a communist workforce, it is no difference, but that many cannot now acknowledge it, because we are only in the European Union." Dr. Peter Kraljič, when he was suspended along with the entire board of supervisors from the SID Board of Banks. And now you're accusing the other side of what others have done, what's wrong. I guess it's really wrong. But if we want to prevent all of this, ladies and gentlemen, then let's not accuse, we don't tell the facts, but let's try to allow the supervisory authorities to work so that we don't argue that someone just accused our President and there was no evidence. Not only is it a joke, the problem is that you have to look at yourself and speak very responsibly about what Dr. Arhar actually wanted to say. He wanted to say that in this area there is a problem – mainly in state-owned companies and that the problem is us, politicians, those who have been appointed, those who have been appointed, perhaps those who have been indirectly appointed, in this is the main problem. And as long as we don't solve this basic problem we can still read, because it still writes, writes purely for everyone where it was, where it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, how many millions, how many million people got, where it went, where it was, where it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was, [[…]] The problem is that then someone wonders if we can ask how it is in the Ljubljana Bank. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, but not in this way that we are talking about employment policy in administrations where it is a majority state property, but we are talking about the Praprotnik Year. Procurator's term is not a problem, it's a person who may or may not have made a mistake. The problem is when we talk about systemic corruption, we talk about a certain person, and we use it for public propaganda and for public speaking. Even with the question of Ivan Vogrin, his self-advertisement. When someone in the National Assembly is talking about that this is the place of the millennium and he himself is in charge of his company and our banks for at least EUR 2 million that he can't settle, which to us, if we calculate it, amounts to 2 000 billion if every citizen does. That's why I think we should be. In this sense, we do not just say things like that and that we are relatively normal. When someone in the National Assembly tells me today that I am at a celebration where symbols are from other times, then I am proud to be at that celebration. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but I'm not going to the DMV. Because I'm proud that my father fought for this country today. And he's been through a lot about it. And that he fought with those who were opened or you were sitting there in the front row and the first benches. Therefore, I say that it is necessary to speak in an reasoned manner and to speak as is actually necessary in this temple in some way. But let me say again, don't talk about courage. Courage was shown by those who fell in battle in whatever way they had been. Dr. King, who wrote what I read to you earlier, about what kind of system we're in. And he also said they were corporate management specialists themselves. That was the courage that Dr. Arhar told us, because he actually told us the truth, and we didn't want to hear it. And if the overseers give up because of our influence, then that won't be good. I propose that we calm our debates, try to reach a conclusion with these debates. This conclusion is not the judgment of the Hand of the Praetorian, nor his judgment, it is the condemnation of us, of our conduct. It's about proposals, how we're going to do something to make sure this doesn't happen again. And if we don't do that, then we'll still be reading how we are, whether you are, or they're recruiting, and how we've come to be in bad skin today, or in worse skin than we deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u73	Thank you very much. First the replica, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Of course, I recognized myself in your debate, but I will not discuss partisans and patriots, you go to your own pitch, you don't have to talk about these things. You said these discussions were for the inn. Mr Meh, if it's a billion and a half that went to the Ljubljana Bank and that all citizens will pay for the debate at the inn, then you're wrong. This is a debate for Parliament. And even as long as the opposition is here, this will be Parliament's debate, you need to know that, and as long as we have such rules of procedure. "Kapo down to those who aren't here." That's great. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, the replica on the replica isn't supposed to be unless you've changed the rules of procedure. Last time we discussed the real estate tax and you named us Mafia, then in Democracy you lied about it not being in a magnetogram. Of course not, because the meeting was chaired by the Vice-President and it wasn't. So as you lied there, you also lied further when you listed the Supervisory Councils from 2006 or 2004 to 2008. Yes, each government probably appoints supervisory councils, and what you mentioned is perfectly normal. What's wrong with these control councils? The only problem is that we have invited you from 2004 to 2008 to participate in the supervisory councils with a representative of the opposition because we wanted to have your control. And as far as I know, in some cases you've also appointed your people to the supervisory councils. During your reign, of course, this did not happen, but you named your people, which is your right. Each government is appointed to the supervisory councils, and so it was in the time of our government. And I don't know what you see here. Matjaž Janša and I don't know what you've listed. Yes, doesn't every one of them frame his own government, but how does he look different? So we invited you along, and you turned us down, that's a major difference. And the argumented debate to take advantage of these three minutes. This Commission report on anti-corruption states that Mr Medja went to that Korn Ferry agency. Him. It says here, it's not an open debate, just read something. Secondly, this report says that corruption was committed. According to this report, they paid their bills unjustifiably. And this report says that Mr Medja is not guilty because he signed Mr Klemenčič after he offered him a job. These are the facts set out in the Commission's report on anti-corruption and do not embezzle them. Just like you did in democracy, and you lied about not telling the Mafia opposition. And once again, the supervisory councils appoint governments, both yours and ours, and there is no point in listing what you have listed, and then – I don't know whether you're losing your memory or what – they've added to Mr. Urh's opposition to us. He hasn't crossed over to Desus yet, as far as I know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, I can't give you a chance to replicate because Dr. Gorenak had a replica. There's no replica to the replica. Look, I have to give you my word by the rules of procedure when you demand procedurally, given your reaction that you've changed the replica in a second into a procedural proposal, I suppose you'll abuse it, but you have the chance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u76	I have relatively little time in the National Assembly, so I am learning how to take advantage of the rules of procedure. So I'm simply protesting what Dr. Gorenak was saying, and I'm asking you to remind him. Because there was nothing to say about a billion and a half today. We were talking about the Praetor's Year, and we were talking about him being the culprit today in this whole case. And I didn't say anything about it. And once again, when someone's talking about the mob, then it's got to be reasoned. I ask once again that this is not in the record. The record states, however, that the leader of the parliamentary group, Jože Tanko, spoke twice about the Mafia's conduct as we did. Therefore, I ask that Mr Gorenak does not speak the truth, it is not in the record. But if I'm talking to my buddy here in the bench and he's listening, that's his problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u77	Thank you very much. This story is from another time, obviously. I hope you'll clear it one day, obviously not in this session. Mr. Tanko as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, when there are no arguments for any debate, Mr Gorenak has shown a report from which he has also taken the lead, but such slanders and enlargements are carried out on what is not necessary and is not an integral part of the agenda. With regard to Mr Arhar's resignation, I have here a record in yesterday's Reporter saying that Mr Arhar was trying to achieve the replacement or withdrawal of Mr Medje, but that has failed in the control world. And that was one of the problems that made him decide, or only now. It is also a problem that he wanted to suspend it precisely because of the cooperation of Mr Medje with Korn Ferry. So these things are worth it. It bothers me that Mr Meh interprets these matters in this way. However, Mr Arhar was also very disappointed that the anti-corruption commission, although it promised him the report by the end of last year, gave him a return report just before Mr Praprotnik was appointed. So it was some incorrect action by the Commission to prevent corruption, which failed to fulfil its promises to the President of the Supervisory Board of our largest bank and then put it before a fact. And logically, a normal person makes a normal move. Now, as far as this recruitment is concerned. The government, as you say, has a responsibility. It's not my opinion that people are called to the supervisory councils by the model we have in this country. The problem is that no action is taken against persons who are trusted on the basis of whom they have been appointed to the supervisory councils or administrations. What Mr. Medja has probably had has all the signs of corruption. If there had been any exposure to the Slovenian Democratic Party, the debate in this National Assembly would have been completely different, perhaps it would have been different for us, because this person would probably have gone away if we had found it in the same way as in this case. However, when it comes to some structured discussions and mounted matters, it is likely that we will not do what you expected at some point in a KPK report. Be sure. But I will go back on the attitude towards problems in this society – this is mainly a reflection of how you deal with interpretations, in which we document thesis, document, even contract that this and this happened, mistreatment of abuse, and you do not admit that this has happened, say, I am talking about the case of Mr Pikal. Additional stories or additional problems with this money for this project continue to occur. You're not reacting. How, then, will you support any action in these cases that we are talking about today? You have cemented some strange behavior in this country during this period. Obviously, things, the fight against corruption and everything else, I would just say, are part of a pirar, a virtual struggle, facts, when they appear, but you cover them with voting instruments. This is just a fact and to expect what significant changes in this area in this composition of the coalition is probably not. And what you're talking about is that you're going to be adopting a new Law on Seizure of Unlawful Property, in order to sharpen the conflict of interest in the Slovenian State Holding with specific provisions, in order to do something in the banking area – that's all, I'd say, some discussion into the void that will have no effect. Just that one thing moves on for a few months. That's the key problem. Instead of acting decisively and taking action, you are dealing with some kind of eye lubrication. That's what we're witnessing right now. This is certainly the course of action that has taken place in Nova Ljubljanska Bank in connection with the Senate to prevent corruption, the problem of the rules in this country, and obviously this is also linked in many ways to how some things will be cemented further. This is a similar story to when Mr Penko of Mr Zidar's prosecutor became Mr Zidar's advocate overnight. It's a perfectly identical story, and look at the way you acted back then. Even then, there was an extraordinary session on this subject. With all the investigative files, he became his advocate. In this case, with the full scope of the investigation of this case, someone became a defender on the other hand in a party which should have suffered a sanction has become an advocate of the interests of the counterparty. This is unusual, if not otherwise, it is abnormal and limits to some decisions that are strongly related to common sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Majda Potrat, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u80	Madam Vice-President, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is the right and duty of the speaker to remind speakers to stick to the agenda in his deliberations, and you have not warned Mr Tank that we do not have an interpretation meeting today against Minister Pikal, we have done this a long time ago, we do not have this material and you have not noticed it and you have not warned him. Please follow the rules of procedure and make sure that we discuss the things we have on the agenda. Otherwise, it has been taken care of by an anonymous person who is said to have been persecuted in the work of the law enforcement authorities, and if all that is so many times after the vote or the vote on the interpretation is still possible to hear about it, the law enforcement authorities will do what needs to be done. I think we have a lot of anonymous experts in this National Assembly and for complaints and for obtaining information, because here we have a whole bunch of people who claim that this is the case and so on, and we don't know how this information comes about. I believe that some people have their sources of information, but one would wonder how they come to them. However, your task, once again, is to conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure by limiting the debate to the agenda. If you leave everything to be talked about, give it to me, but as a Member, I remind you that the Rules of Procedure do not impose this on you. I'd be happy if you'd do something different in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your warning, Mrs. Majda Potter. Of course, I am surprised that you have not applied to this procedural proposal before other fellow Members have spoken about many things. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we requested an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on systemic corruption and on a highly controversial basis, even after our corrupt, employment of Mr Roc Praprotnik, former Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, former journalist Dnevnik at the New Ljubljana Bank. I would like to draw attention to two key issues why this job is controversial and corrupt. Mr Rok Praprotnik received an offer from Nova Ljubljanska banka at the invitation of Mr Jank Medje, and this month in January. It is true when he himself would still be very deeply seated as Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. What is essential, however, is that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption at that time, should investigate the issue of lending, including the New Ljubljana Bank, and of course the bank hole created in the country. However, despite the reports that have taken place on the anti-corruption Commission, nothing has happened. There have been only some discussions, but some decisions have been made regarding the bank hole and no disputed lending. And of course, one of the reasons why it has not come to the conclusion of the investigation of these controversial loans, including in connection with the New Ljubljana Bank, is undoubtedly also the deal concluded by Mr Janko Medja and Mr Rok Praprotnik. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that there has been systemic corruption in this case, as the President of Nova Ljubljanska Banka offered Mr Praprotnik a job before he even went out of the tender. This happened in January, as has already been said, at the time, Mr Praparatnik was employed by the Anti-Corruption Commission and then the invitation to tender was only issued in March. Even more, at this time, Nova Ljubljanska Banka announced that it would fire about 700 people. However, none of these people, who will be fired by the end of the year, will be eligible for this place that Mr Rok Praprotnik has received. For this position, the head of the Centre for Business Compliance with the New Ljubljana Bank should be exclusively and only Mr Rok Praprotnik and Mr Klemenčič earlier. However, since Mr Klemenčič rejected this offer, Mr Praprotnik then accepted this offer. Although both of them should in fact investigate the controversial loans approved by this New Ljubljana Bank and also create a billion-dollar hole at a time when they agreed to work at Nova Ljubljanska Bank in one way or another. In short, today we are talking about highly controversial practices and, above all, the duplicity of individuals who hold the highest positions in the country. These positions, however, are linked to the issue of integrity and the issue of corruption. And it is these people who are moving extremely on the brink of these questions. Even more, in fact, apparently also in this case of Mr Praprotenik's employment, they act corruptly and do not get upset at all. In recent times, we have also repeatedly warned about this, even with the interpretation of Mr Virant, as regards integrity in this country, I will say what a moral judge who has significantly higher criteria for others than himself, Mr Gregor Virant, and the former President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Klemenčič, who has been in this place, namely, the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, named exclusively with one goal, is to bring down Janez Janša. This was an exclusive goal, and, of course, it was well-intentioned, benevolent support given to him by no one other than the president of the National Gazette, Dr. Gregor Virant. And therefore, of course, these connections, the interlinkages that take place on the route of the Civil Gazette, or more precisely Dr Gregor Virant, to the Commission's approach to preventing corruption, are clear. If we look at the genetics and links between the Anti-Corruption Commission and Mr Virant, we finally find out why, for example, the signed contract with Propiar had been mentioned several times before, let me just remind you that when this treaty was signed, Mr Gregor Virant was an investigator of the Anti-Corruption Commission. And that's the key problem. That's the key problem! I hope you're aware of him in the Civil Gazette. This is a key problem because he was an investigator back then. It is said that in two cases as the party's president, a person is said to have investigated the President's assets and, in the case of cheap air tickets. Let me explain that, as a member of the National Assembly on 19 October 2013, I wrote an open letter to the President of the Commission to prevent corruption to Mr Goran Klemenčič on the grounds of selective and political bias, even when it came to the case of Dr Gregor Virant's cheap airline tickets. But we've talked about this story several times before when we've been interpreting. But let me remind you here what is also the essence of the problem today. In particular, that the Commission has not responded to corruption prevention in the event of a multibillion-dollar bank hole, I have repeatedly warned, I have also asked Mr Goran Klemenčič, but Mr Goran Klemenčič has not explained in a single word whether or not anything has been done. Today we can see that practically nothing happened. All that was done was that they agreed that Mr Rok Praprotnik would be given a well-paid job in the New Ljubljana Bank when he did his magnificent work as Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. But not to be criminal, but something has been done by the Commission to prevent corruption in relation to a multibillion-dollar bank hole, and this is to write a brief and very modest analysis of the assessment of the situation in the Slovenian banking system in the Commission's 2011 report. Let me also point out here that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has not once, with a single sentence, disappeared in the case of two publicly named tycoon banks, i.e. the Factor of the Bank and Probanks, which could undoubtedly have made very interesting discoveries. To very interesting discoveries. But here's the silence again, nothing happens. As everyone knows, we will have to pay all taxpayers with the poor operation of these two banks, of course with the commitment of the government of Alenka Bratušek. This is a fact, irrefutable, but the Commission has done absolutely nothing to prevent corruption in this regard. See, we also, for example, wanted the Commission to carry out an analysis of the operations of companies owned by the Commission's family members to prevent corruption, with companies in which the State has a stake, and with all the legal entities of the public administration. None of this has happened because the anti-corruption Commission has done its main work. It was the decapitation of John Janša. This work was done thoroughly, well and accurately. There's no doubt about that. But of course, people see this very well, they see this double game, they see how we have a billion-dollar hole on one side, and nothing happens to those who are responsible. On the other hand, we have someone who's been demonized for 20 years and he's got everything he can do. Now that the representative of the Social Democrats represented the position of her parliamentary group, she said, inter alia, that this meeting represents only one more attack on the Commission to prevent corruption. I must say that the debate we have here today is not about any attack on the Anti-Corruption Commission, but it is undoubtedly about divisive conduct and practices, namely those who should first act in accordance with integrity and in accordance with the laws. However, I am also, of course, concerned with the transparency of procedures and the question of accountability. I submit that when Mr Praprotnik was appointed to the post of Head of the Centre for Business Coherence at Nova Ljubljanska Bank, this appointment was neither consistent with integrity nor with transparency, but it was undoubtedly in line with what we say is corrupt. And that's certainly what happened. Let me mention this, I had forgotten earlier when I mentioned that Mr Rok Praprotnik had come to this place without a call, in agreement with Mr Jank Medja, who had called him in January, when he himself was the Deputy Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and should be looking at precisely controversial actions in relation to the New Ljubljana Bank. Mr Praprotnik did not meet the conditions he should have met when he was elected to the post of Deputy Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. And it was there that President Transparency International, Mrs Simona Habic, also looked at him through his fingers, and, although it was precisely these people who, in positions dealing with the issue of integrity and corruption, would first expect them to act transparently and in accordance with the law. As long as we act in this country in this way, and we will hear from the coalition Members and Members that this is a matter of debate, that it is of no importance to us, ladies and gentlemen, then there is no help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting for everyone! If the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank is to act in a responsible manner in its current composition, it should immediately, if it has not been informed in the appointment process itself of its intention to work at Mr Praprotnik's New Ljubljana Bank, and immediately after having been informed of this, convene a meeting and immediately dismiss Mr Medja and probably a number of others. This would be a responsible step of the Governing Council. And also the message that this composition, which somehow promised that even in the New Bank of Ljubljana, transparency would begin to operate after such a significant recapitalisation, especially in order for this bank to be what we all want to do together. Just like the owner or manager of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in today's debate, if not, as colleague Cernač has already called or mentioned, that at least at the beginning of this session, the President of the Government should be sitting here, either by the Minister or by the Secretary of State or by the Secretary of State, but not by the fact that there is nothing to blame, nothing due, with all due respect, representatives from the Ministry of Finance who certainly have nothing to do with this problem. They're sitting here, listening, and, of course, unfortunately, they can't do anything. That means or you can see here the attitude towards this burning problem that it is. And if the Supervisory Board did what any citizen would probably expect, there would be no debate today. I'm sure you don't. And I do not allow and I believe that we all think that it can be here in Slovenia, which has the right to try to deny us the right to discuss or not in this National Assembly. I am sure that there is no thing in the public interest that is not to be discussed and, of course, discussed in the National Assembly. There's another thing we can decide. This is what the legislation and the constitution are very precise and precise for us, but the debate is certainly something that can and must be done in Parliament at any time. And I hope that today's debate on research will encourage some journalists to try to determine whether the facts that Dr. Gorenak mentioned earlier on behalf of the applicants here, and for me, these findings, I can say, have been a big surprise. And I was appalled at the complexity of this scenario and this story was being carried out to reveal it, to find out, also the appropriate action. Also the statements made by Mr Bogomier Kovac, this morning I was able to see by the media that Parliament is not an institution that can discuss corporate governance after all those procedures. Mr Medja, too, he will be the one who will judge who is a key member of this story and the actor of this story that there is no parliamentary space where we can discuss these moves. That with his help or, perhaps, he was also an actor of this – EUR 600,000, we can say that he paid the taxpayer money to an agency that then proposed against this payment that he became president of the New Ljubljana Bank. Hard work for this agency, and you can make money. And that's why he didn't have any responsibilities. And I would now expect, given all this information, which is more or now also public, whether the new President of the Anti-Corruption Commission will give this process as a priority, to explore it and also to disclose and sanction it as far as possible within its powers. And here I also agree with those statements made by the previous Anti-Corruption Commission that, unfortunately, they do not have the authority to take any action, I agree with that. More should be given. I wonder, however, what powers do we, Members of Parliament have? Excuse me, excuse me, we're here as "keys" who can only discuss and press keys when someone wants to. I believe that in this problem, which is certainly an acute problem not only in this case, but probably in hundreds. Everyone probably, if he thinks about it, agrees that it is wrong for you to be angry, even in some of the debates it was obvious. But when it's necessary, then don't do anything. So I wonder if, when you say some of these things, there is no place in Parliament to talk or talk about whether you are forbidden to talk about these matters. I also recall the words of the former President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, Mr Klemenčič, when they had given the intention to withdraw or withdraw a statement that a big story would somehow be revealed in public within a few weeks, and when the journalist was drilling from what area, if I recall correctly, he somehow directed directly from banking. But I don't know if it was anywhere to detect it or not. That's not me. Maybe it was that story, and there was a lot of other stuff that we shouldn't have dug up so far. Maybe it'll come up in the future. Perhaps, however, there are reasons why the anti-corruption commission was then quieted down in this way and even that they had retreated so collectively at that time. And I wonder if they would have done it if they hadn't already had a well-paid job in advance. The reasons given at the time are simply because they cannot do their job, that they have no powers to be effective and so forth, but unfortunately they have not proposed any concrete measures, but what should be done to make them more effective. Apparently, they have been effective enough for themselves, at least as far as Mr Praetor is concerned. And now, if I still touch on their many principled opinions, when they have so many philosophied with some new terms of "hazard", "corruption risk", I don't know where these words were actually placed in the language or that they were written like that, some phrases, some phrases that had nothing to do with some concrete cases, but only "there are great corruption risks" and so on. And I am sure that if any of us were to have such a case here, I speak here for this side of us, the Anti-Corruption Commission would certainly write that this is an act with elements of corruption and that, of course, everything needs to be done here so that it does not occur and sanction. Here, when they were themselves involved, nothing, nothing. Therefore, it is likely that the first test of the new President of the Anti-Corruption Commission will be to address this case. Finally, I would like to ask myself, and probably also the professional public, whether Mr Praprotnik, as far as I know by profession a journalist, is indeed a competent person to be able to perform such a difficult job as he is in the biggest Slovenian bank. Isn't it really necessary here to look for people who have references and knowledge in the areas of finance, banking and so on? Is there a research journalist here who probably wrote after a dictatorship or an order of some, perhaps even uncles from the background, that he was trying to discredit certain political Februarys or even persons with a number of articles – a lot of the facts were also found – and of course for the actions he performed as Vice-President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, that, of course, it was now deserved to pay back for some services, but probably the main irregularities that are still under the carpet in the New Ljubljana Bank, and hopefully that these carpets will unfold, and that not only the public, but also the law enforcement authorities and the judiciary have done what they are supposed to do in order to finally start this drama, as far as the bank is concerned, going to the end. And once again, I don't think he's in Slovenia that could deny that we're discussing such things, because I'm sure that's what every Slovenian or Slovenian is interested in, because it's not finally their money. And it is right that we are discussing these matters, and I hope that in the end it will come from this debate or then, because in the coming days, weeks, there may also be some smart result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I would only warn you that with us is a representative of the government, state secretary of mag. Renata Zatler, and she wanted a word. It is followed by Alenka Jeraj, Melita Župevc and Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In view of the fact that some questions have been raised, it would be good to answer these questions on behalf of the Government as well. The solution of the SDH Act in connection with the Integrity Act was mentioned. Here it must be made clear that the SDH Act has also identified very precisely and very consistently, on the Commission's proposal to prevent corruption, articles that really aim at the goal and will, in particular, contribute to limiting corruption risks in the management of state-owned companies. Given that this law has indeed made this more precise provision, of course it is very important that these provisions can also be taken into account when introducing provisions on conflicts of interest and provisions on limiting corruption risks also in the novelty of the Integrity Act. As has already been said in the introduction, the amendment to the Integrity Act is being prepared at the Ministry of the Interior. Also on the Commission's proposal to prevent corruption, the draft has already been prepared. The opinion of constitutional lawyers was also given. So that we have all the grounds on which we're going to make this first draft of the law, I hope to prepare in a short time. It has previously been pointed out that the Commission has never pointed out the problem of a bank hole to prevent corruption. I would like to stress here that among the 15 measures specifically identified by the Anti-Corruption Commission in some kind of action plan, what the Government should do, is also the establishment of a public and transparent investigation of the bank hole. On this basis, the Government has also introduced in its action plan or package of measures to prevent or limit corruption risks a specific measure relating to the introduction of a transparent audit of the bank hole. It is already clear from this report or from this programme that activities have already been carried out on this basis. Among other things, the police have already begun to carry out a series of forecasting procedures, and an investigation team has been set up to control the lending of various companies and so on. Of course, activities in this area will continue. Among the individual measures specifically laid down by the Government in its programme, it would also point out the introduction of a transparent review of the TEC procedure and operations. Like I said, a bank hole. The Law on Access to Public Information – Why is it so important, recently adopted? It will enter into force on Thursday, of course also in the field of banks, the novel has set out the transparency of credits transferred to a bad bank, i.e. the DUTB. And, as is already known, a new Law on Access to Public Information has already been tabled, which refers to the additional transparency of the bad loans left on banks. What would I stress here in particular about the implementation of the Law on Access to Public Information. As we have said many times before, transparency is very important in preventing or limiting corruption risks. And it is this law that makes it compulsory for all state-owned and community-owned companies to provide information of a public nature to all those who express interest in it. It is specified exactly what information is of a public nature, namely expenditure. However, information on expenditure for advisory contracts, copyright contracts, grants and so on will have to be published on the websites of these companies. The fact is that, in fact, this law will achieve at least one part of the objective of taking as many measures as possible to limit the prevention of corruption. The SDH Act, which I mentioned earlier, is even more important here in the work relating to corporate governance of state-owned companies. With full respect, I am confident that there will be a higher level of awareness that certain matters must also be taken into account in state-owned companies. As for the novel or GRECO recommendations, which also related to limiting this corruption risk in Slovenia, I would also like to point out that the Government has adopted a new Law on Political Parties and a new Law on Election and Referendum Campaigns, which also has an important impact on the fact that corruption risks are limited, as it prohibits the financing of these political parties and campaigns by legal persons. So much for the government, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Mr Medja said that the large majority of those invited from the bank and the external possibility of applying for the invitation refused because the expected tasks were considered too demanding. I wonder if this task may not be significantly more difficult and demanding for someone coming from outside who has no idea of banking, knows no procedures, knows no processes. Obviously this is not the case if Mr Medja decided to call Mr Klemenčič first, and then, when he failed there, Mr Praprotenik. Apparently, he himself does not feel too qualified to take the job. We read a lot about this in the papers below. At first, we did not know that Mr Praprotnik had been excluded from the decision or control of the NLB and so on. Every day, they leaked and came up with a plan for new information. I must say that I have quite a few problems with what Mr Pratort will be doing there. Mr Gorenak said what this centre, whose director has become, the Centre for Business Coherence, is doing to ensure the implementation of laws, internal regulations and internal rules, and in particular to take care of ethical issues. Its workaround is the prevention of money laundering, the diversion of internal information, the protection of classified information, the prevention of trafficking in information, as well as the prevention of conflicts of interest, the prevention of corruption. This is also the only service within the New Ljubljana Bank, which has access to all data from the Ljubljana Bank. I cannot avoid the comparison that my colleague Jože Tanko has already said, something similar has happened when Mr Penko, from the prosecutor who investigated Mr Zidar and the SCT in the organised economic crime investigation group, went to the other side, that is, to Mr Zidar's side and became his lawyer. Here is something similar or given that things were agreed before, I have a feeling that it is now much clearer why the KPK team has resigned. Mr Klemenčič, Praprotnik and Selinsk, because we should write a report on what is happening in banks sooner rather than later. Mr Klemenčič loved to come to the press conferences and explain everything possible, in the event that we hear that he has been called by Mr Medja, nothing about this. Mr Klemenčič also said, in connection with the second appointment of Mr Mišić to Luka Koper: "If this appointment comes to pass, it will be another proof of what kind of wild west government in the field of staffing." In the employment of Roc Praprotnik, no statement on the wild west in the field of recruitment by Mr Klemenčič. He's nowhere to be heard, we don't see him, we don't see him, they don't invite him to the Reflections to explain a little how he sees this, because he's got opinions and opinions about everything, or we can read about him on his website. That is why I have little doubt that the whole thing has happened by chance, that there has actually been no one with sufficient experience and knowledge in the field of banking who could have done all I have said, but is the most suitable for this, Mr Praprotnik. Then, with regard to some of the statements you quoted, Mr. Arhar, at the meeting on Friday. Mr Arhar also said a lot about what was wrong with the KPK, how the control of Korn Ferry was going on, how long it took to invite him to the interview, told him that it would take him two months to report, and then it would take another year and so on. Well, when he finally came or got the mail, to sign with the return card, it was all published on the same day. And she wonders what this approach is, what this means and how some things are going in this country. He also said that in the end, it was always people who did or did not do good or bad and described how the banks had been rehabilitated from 1993 to 1997, what they had decided at that time, how things would have to run so that they would never come into a similar situation again. And apparently they weren't the right people in the right places if the state banks had 723 million dollars, and foreign banks had 500 million profits. And Mr Meh was quoting where all the people we called or our government were, what was the problem. We agree with this that this is indeed a problem, so we also advocate, strongly, privatisation, that is, the sale of this property, because then politics no longer has any influence, not ours or yours. However, if this was as bad as you said, I don't know why you didn't take any other routes in 2009, but you have placed Mrs Dagmar Komar as director of the Capital Investment Management Agency, and further to all the places that I will not now quote and read names like you, your people or people from your party. As it is said, if a part of this property were sold, politics would no longer have any effect. And that would be the only right thing to do. This is what we've been up against in the SDS all along, and you've been resisting all along, and you probably already know why you're resisting it. At the time of the meeting, we also proposed a number of conclusions. As traditional, the coalition has rejected everything. At the same time, he says that we do not want to cooperate, that we are terrible, always against and so forth, while doing so itself, this “cooperation” and “kindness” to us, in a way that rejects all conclusions or recommendations without even wanting to listen to them. One of the conclusions that I think we should urgently accept – we should take more – but, for example, one of the conclusions is this: The National Assembly requires the Commission to prevent corruption or recommends it to review the work of the Pratnik Hand in the work relating to NLB, and introduces a procedure for identifying corruption, infringements of procedures on conflicts of interest, infringements of ethics and integrity, and an assessment of the corruption risks in the work of the Pratnik Year in relation to procedures where the NLB was an investigator. Such a decision was rejected by the coalition. We don't understand why. Are we not all in favor of clarifying whether it was corruption or not? I guess not. Obviously, we are only in the SDS, which we have proposed, but you talk about it a lot, and you do it completely differently. I don't see anything terrible in this conclusion. The new KPK Senate, when appointed, should review this and find out anything or not. We have also proposed that the National Assembly propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare and adopt the National Assembly proposals for legal solutions that will limit or eliminate systemic corruption in the public and private sectors, and as the majority owner of NLB will implement measures to address corruption and corruption in employment in NLB. The secretary of state here boasted that they were already doing these things. So, why is such a conclusion such a recommendation problematic? Or is it just because in two months you would be asked if we had done something about it or if something had happened or nothing had happened? And once again, the coalition is against such a conclusion, because – we do not know – no one has explained why you are against it. And as it is said, in doing so, you keep calling us to cooperate and so forth, to cooperate, any kind of cooperation, to prevent corruption or to determine whether corruption has occurred, but you are against it. There have been other conclusions like this. We have proposed six conclusions, which do not come from the committee to the meeting of the National Assembly, because the coalition is so eager to prevent corruption and punish those who are corrupt. Too bad we won't be able to confirm such conclusions. Too bad we will not make recommendations to the Government, recommended to the Commission to prevent corruption in order to do these things. I hope they're watching news, watching TV, reading the newspaper, doing what they're supposed to do, and they don't have to report everything. I am concerned, however, that there is no common message from today's meeting of the National Assembly, all of us, Members and Members, that we want to prevent, prevent and punish corruption, risk and such acts if they happen. This would also be a real message to law enforcement authorities. But you don't want to do that, because in two or three years' time, we're going to blame all the politicians, just like we are now for a lot of things, the few days that we've been lending loans and signing credit lines. Then, after a while, this generalized, and many forget what we were talking about here today and what conclusions and recommendations you did not want to support. Only you know why you didn't want them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I will give my word to Mr. Robert Battelli next, and the Magi will be prepared for him. Majda Potrat, Sonja Ramšak and then we end with the Government and the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Battelli. You're giving up. Well, he's got the word "magic." Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It is quite clear that political resources are being used in politics, so I am not surprised by the political debate we have today. It surprises me, however, that those who propose topics that prepare material and, in particular, those who prepare conclusions cannot examine what they can or cannot do, do not know, do not know, do not know what would be more useful in most of this, so they do not know or read the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. Because if the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service were to be read by a member group, we would not be surprised why the proposed decision did not receive support. Because the Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that what we have decided and would decide cannot be called a decision, but should be a recommendation. There was no such amendment to rename the decision as a recommendation, nor was it the first requirement, since then it would be a problem to name the item on the agenda. However, it would be good if those who so loudly resent the fact that none of the six decisions were adopted – and I expect anyone to read again, we have not supported the stalemate – to see what the Legislative and Legal Service has to say for each decision. The first decision simply makes it clear that we have become familiar with something that is not even mentioned in the name of the point. And so we could move on how they interfere with the bank, how they interfere with the two conclusions in what is under the authority of the government, and then with two conclusions what they impose on the anti-corruption commission. And if we looked at that, we would see that, in fact, the Legislative and Legal Service has stated the fundamental disadvantage of such an approach. In fact, if the point is called a debate – and the fact is that the debate on many things is possible and we have witnessed it today, we have talked about many things – and then we are making a change in legislation. And that's what you have to say. And after the government has taken measures to combat corruption, I think it is a misperception, if not cynicism or something else, to simply operate or appeal to the feelings of people who are justly indignant and concerned about all that has happened with the public funds needed to rehabilitate the Slovenian banking system. But what is the greatest abuse of meetings such as today is that people are told that they have the right to know where the money has gone – that is absolutely their right, and that is because it is part of the financial policy of the State – when we are interfering with legislation that goes beyond the powers of the National Assembly, it is quite different. And that's not what the proponents are talking about. And when it comes to overstepping the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, that's exactly what we're talking about. And you quoted Dr. Frances Arhar. Yeah, what was he disgusted about? Infringement of policy into corporate governance. I will now not go into the details of who intervened, but, as is being discussed, I only expect that now – and so was the last debate – that now it was our job to condemn someone here, regardless of the fact that the President of the Supervisory Board, after the information he gathered at the meeting of the home working body, claimed that the procedure had been carried out correctly. The second is how an individual sees the question of ethics or the appropriateness of conduct. I have also talked about this in the opinion of the Group of Members, and when legislation changes, it should also be borne in mind how to deal with those people who are in possession of information who want to be appointed where. And we also had constant comments on when one of the senior officials was replaced. That’s how it is — when it’s ours, it hurts when it’s not ours, and when it’s not ours, we call extraordinary meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u91	Thank you very much, and so do you. On behalf of the proposer, Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u92	Thank you very much. What nonsense must be answered. Mrs Potrata said, I will also quote the name that we must not interfere with the legislation. The National Assembly is, in fact, the only one who can interfere with legislation other than the Constitutional Court. There is no other institution in this country. If we cannot interfere with the legislation, then I do not know what kind of parliamentary democracy we have if we do not have it and if we do not have that power. And I would ask all those who speak of this problem to be careful when making statements. The National Assembly is also obliged, in accordance with the policies implemented in this country, to discuss, in accordance with the provisions we have written down, policies in these areas, the necessary measures, the views on individual issues. And this agenda item is typical, typical of the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Because we need to discuss the legal arrangements and also in the context of the conclusions, we have submitted and proposed to the Government that, should anything else be found to be regulated in this area, arrangements should be made and proposals for a solution to the National Assembly. So to speak, however, that the National Assembly is not competent to interfere with legislation, but something is very wrong with those who have a long parliamentary mileage and are trying to deceive the public more or less with these interventions. Even with the interpretation of Mr Arhar, if you want to explain precisely, you can ask him what is written says in favour of those statements that we have said: because of disagreement with the way the KPK works, because he wanted to intervene on this basis and achieve the replacement of the Prime Minister, and he failed, even because of other things, he may have been disabled. Certainly not because of what we have proposed, because we have proposed a agenda item or a request for an extraordinary meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u93	Thank you very much. She has the next word, Mrs. Sonja Ramšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Notwithstanding the fact that some Members and Members wish to make today's meeting unnecessary, I think that it has reached a debate on the home committee itself, as is said in the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as today's meeting its purpose. Realising that there is systemic corruption in Slovenia, what is systemic corruption, and of course how we can avoid systemic corruption. This is also proved by some of the reflections of citizens and citizens that I have received through e-mail. In view of what Mrs Potrata said in her discussion to the drafters of the material, I would only say that, at the very meeting of the home committee, we have also considered some of the views of the Legal and Legal Service as inappropriate or even opposed to the argument, so that those who want to read it can read the magnetogram itself. I must also say that I am pleased that Mr Tanko has just pointed out what the purpose of this meeting was. On the Committee itself, we have repeatedly stressed that it is a matter of showing how political staffing and systemic corruption related to it are taking place, and we have in fact highlighted this in this last case, which has been the most exposed in the public. It is a person who until recently was a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which investigated the bank's hole and irregularities or suspected corruption risks in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, and eventually the same person was actually employed by the legal person who investigated it. From a moral ethical point of view, this is actually unacceptable for someone who until recently was the main moral authority in Slovenia, in addition to the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. However, if I turn to what has been exposed to Mr Arhar’s resignation as President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank for this involvement in the corporate management of the Ljubljana Bank, I think that all those who have read his responses or have already just spoken at the meetings of the parent committee and then in the media can quickly find out that Mr Arhar has highlighted some other aspects. If Mr Arhar might have known what was said today by Mr Vinko Gorenak, he would probably have said more on Friday. As we look at the aspect of Mr Arhar's invitation to the meeting of the parent committee, he was invited to the invitation of the chairman of the committee, and the Slovenian Democratic Party indicated only three entities that we want to invite to the meeting of the National Assembly and Mr Arhar was invited to the meeting of the home committee as Chairman of the Association of Banks of Slovenia. However, in his introduction to the debate, he made it very clear that his comments would reflect his position as a taxpayer as director of the association, and in particular as President of the Supervisory Board. And if I can only say that he has already made it clear in the opening part that in all the experiences he has gained with a foreign owner and which he has with a state owner, this is said to be over 40 years in banking and finance, and that now "what I have heard from Mrs Ramshakova, the whole series of facts, are correct and accurate". It is said that the facts I highlighted at the parent board meeting, as a finding of the large bank hole covered by taxpayers, and that from this point of view we have the right to draw attention also to the examples of systemic corruption, have in fact been confirmed by his statements at the home committee's own meeting. And let me quote from the magnetogram: "...because I really agree with you and with all Slovenians or citizens. The hole, which is so large here – 4.8 billion, in state banks, forgive, see, neighbouring Croatia has about the same level of poor credit – 18%, there is no need for the state to give any euro to lose any euro." And, of course, Mr Arhar also pointed out some other problems that make him disagree with the way corporate governance is managed in the New Ljubljana Bank, with the way management is managed, but this is a matter for him, and I think you can read a lot about this in the media. However, of course, Mr Arhar also said that when he asked in his debate what the National Assembly had jurisdiction, he said with all due respect: "Does he also have corporate governance rights?" And then he says, "If he had any comments, I'd order it to the government, the government to the minister, and the minister would invite me as Chairman of the Supervisory Board." And that is exactly what we are proposing through the points of the decision, which, of course, you completely rejected, although you also had the option, if you have good and positive purposes, you could also amendment this conclusion, but no, it is easier to talk about how someone wrote something that doesn't know and so on, and less is the willingness to put your knowledge, your efforts and, finally, your time in amending certain points. And it is in these conclusions, which has already been highlighted several times, that we have repeatedly pointed out, in particular and also at the meeting of the parent committee, that we want, of course, to recommend to some of the actors involved in this case the recruitment of Mr Praprotnik to the New Ljubljana Bank, that they check either on their side the procedures that are under way or that we propose that the Government, this is paragraphs three and four, prepare appropriate legislative proposals for the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and also other laws that affect this area, of course, to draw up appropriate legal solutions. But I hope that the Government will draw up such solutions that will not go into the matter of violating the Constitution and the legislation, as demonstrated by the proposals made by the Commission in order to prevent corruption at the time of its theatrical withdrawal from the functions of the Commission's anti-corruption Senate, which some legal experts have considered to be unconstitutional and illegal. So much for the integrity and expertise of the Commission to prevent corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u95	Thank you, too. Even Mr. Jože Tanko on behalf of the proposer, perhaps?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. In today's debate, the government did not exactly stretch. She did not say practically anything about how she would act in this particular case. She spoke about some bright future, what she would suggest, which changes to laws, but the topic is not, I will say, a legislative programme of the Government, but it is a concrete example of the recruitment, of the contested recruitment to the New Ljubljana Bank. Neither has the coalition highlighted anything in this area, but the largest parliamentary group has virtually had no debate but has an important role to play in the formation of the KPK Senate, and they are not allowed to be driven away from the workforce and not to decide. However, when things get tougher, they do virtually nothing in this area. This debate took place in a way that the coalition doesn't want to see that the coalition doesn't want to hear anything and that it always points to someone else with a finger in these cases, especially those who draw attention to the problem. We know that we, too, are not flawless, that we may make mistakes, but when the problem comes to the meeting of the National Assembly, I think that everyone who discusses a problem, and this problem is a media issue, should have a divided view. We shouldn't stand on the trenches and defend something that appears to be bad from the plane. What appears from the plane was a disputed conduct, an agreement between the investigator and the investigator, so that a matter would be duly concluded in the investigation and that he would receive a well - paid job for the prize. In this case, if they're holding this information, it's probably the same thing. Such a procedure was carried out, the offer by the investigator or the president of the administration to offer someone who was investigating a well-paid job. And one of those who participated in this Senate investigation decided to do so. And given that the Senate had been extremely high standards when it came to third parties, that is to say for the persons who had been investigated, for those who had not been able to offer them any appropriate compensation, the opinions were also individual, collective or in the context of the annual reports, but were extremely burdensome. And let this be about the prosecutors, let this be about the politicians, let this be about anyone in this case. And I think that some mature policy that wants to do something in this country should act and react. It is not good for those who feel guilty about such conduct to faint in some way or to defend it unconsciously on all scales, even though this is obviously bad. It will be difficult for anyone in this country to convince citizens that the National Assembly is not a city to discuss either a bank hole or integrity, to enforce the Integrity Act or to enforce other laws. You'll find it extremely difficult to convince someone. People demand of those who have chosen them, activity and active work. And I think that politics should follow these interests as well. I wonder, however, what will be the message to the public after this meeting, when part of the policy is primarily the Slovenian Democratic Party defending a certain direction of transparency, responsibility for decisions, also sanctioning decisions and when much of the political space does not participate in the debate or even actively defends bad solutions and bad practices. This is a message that will follow. I think and I know that the approach of the coalition in all the proposals proposed by Members from our party to the legislative process or to the debate in the National Assembly or in the working bodies is always the same. There's always a lot of accusations that we're obstructing something, that it's unnecessary to spend taxpayer money, that I don't know what we're doing. But our interest is just the opposite. The interest of those who defend and attack us not to do so is exactly that. You are the one who, because of the indecisiveness of positions, is spending tax money to cover bad practices. Not 300 euros or 1,000 euros, as much as one such meeting of the National Assembly costs, is more or less the same if it is a meeting or if it is not, because all employees, whether we have a meeting here or not, receive a daily payment, but you, when you do not respond, cause holes in the state property, cause holes in the bank property, and then you demand that people do what you have to do with your decisions to protect and make those who do it immune and secure that people are also paying for it. You don't care if it's about people who are socially weak or rich. With this debt and the tax rise, you reach for everyone, most of all those who have the least and most difficult to afford. With regard to the decisions we have proposed, respected in the coalition and respected Government, neither of the conclusions has exceeded the powers of the National Assembly, regardless of what opinion it was written, regardless of what opinion it was written. If the National Assembly cannot propose to the Government to act within its powers, something is seriously wrong in this country. If the National Assembly cannot propose to the Bank of Slovenia to act within its powers in the banking system to eliminate bad practices, then something is wrong. If the National Assembly cannot propose to the Commission to prevent corruption to do something in a specific case, in particular when re-enacting this problem, this case, then something is seriously wrong. Then we are not the National Assembly, then we do not adopt laws, then we conscientiously refuse to adopt policies in all areas under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, of all areas. And it will be difficult for you to convince anyone in this country, no matter what opinion you have received, that we are not responsible. We're competent. And we're responsible. And those who are aware that we are responsible also propose measures to be taken by institutions that are obliged to report to the National Assembly. It's mandatory to report. And to the National Assembly, the Government, on a regular basis, is reporting at meetings, but whenever we place this as a criterion, the Bank of Slovenia must report and the Commission must report to the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Senate of the Commission must also report on the prevention of corruption. Those who claim that the National Assembly is not responsible for this then do not even know the arrangements we have in this country. The Bank of Slovenia and the Anti-Corruption Commission report only to the National Assembly. And if they report to us and we can't propose anything to them, then, with respect, we close the doors of the National Assembly and go to another arrangement. Some other arrangement. Here to sit and see how problems can be realized, how the costs of TES are growing, how irresponsible those who have been in TES are, how irresponsible those who have caused the bank hole are, how irresponsible those who are doing health problems are, then I don't know what else we can do. We probably don't have anything to do, and the adoption of laws in one way or another is really lame. It grieves me that the Government – we have invited President of the Government and the Minister of Finance – to boycott this item on the agenda, the Secretary of State may be replaced by a minister if he is absent, but cannot be for the President of the Government. And since you are bragging about what you are or will accept about the fight against corruption, I tell you that what you are and what you will accept has no implementation in practice. You don't do laws. Even the government doesn't enforce its laws. Neither does the coalition in the National Assembly. If you are able to cover corrupt acts, client acts, enormous payments to family members who have been made by such or other members of the party of Social Democrats, if you are prepared to support the award of medical concessions and your political views, then we do not expect anything from such a party in this National Assembly. We have nothing to expect. Except that there will be permanent coverage of conduct, bad conduct that violates, I will say, all standards and responsibilities that violate ethical standards and also, I will say, legislative standards that are also defined as a crime. I think that the Government, the Bank of Slovenia and the Anti-Corruption Commission should approach the revision of this particular case, the case of the employment of the Advocacy Year in the Bank of Slovenia. And if anything is wrong, you should also take on a specific task here as well as the National Investigation Office and the Prosecutor's Office. And given what standards you are advocating, it might even make sense that both protagonists of this procedure, both the Director of the New Ljubljana Bank and Mr Praprotnik, could temporarily or permanently be suspended until the situation of Mr Pratnik's employment is cleared. And in this way, we could also launch an independent investigation that would not have been affected by such or otherwise involved persons. I am surprised that in one of the previous cases, both the prosecution and the National Bureau of Investigation at the press conference said they could not reach the bank records that the Government and Banka Slovenije had not responded. There it was said that the mid-level management of the obstacle handed over the files to the investigating office and the prosecution. Who reacted? The bank manager? It's not. Why isn't it? Why can't he act against his subordinates as a responsible person in the bank? Has the government acted? It's not. Everything we have proposed regarding disclosure in this part of the mandate, you have been vehemently rejected, just as you have rejected these decisions, which are appropriate to be dealt with. But if you had better solutions, you'd be happy to support them. But clearly, there is a huge difference between words and actions. And above all, it's the coalition that speaks one thing, and it's doing something completely different. And I think [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u97	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted the word for got it. However, since we have some time left to discuss, I ask you, in accordance with Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, whether anyone else would like to discuss it. I see a desire to discuss it. I'm opening an application? How about the government? A proposaler, perhaps? I'm opening the way for a debate. We have four panellists reported, each with five minutes. Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Today we have somehow seen that this government, this government, this coalition, doesn't care much about citizens' wallets, although we have known this for a long time. But she also does not care enough to prevent, at least in the future, the looting of people through such or other corrupt practices and procedures. And when we are talking today about one particular case of Mr Praprotenik, we are not talking about the case of ad persons, but we are talking about a way of doing something that is somehow inherent in this power structure, which shows that it does not prevent, but encourages, the actions and conduct of all these corruption risks and practices. One such concrete example is, for example, the appointment of a new Senate of the Corruption Commission. The new Senate of the Corruption Commission, as I said earlier, has taken over Positive Slovenia. This is now becoming one political commission of a political party. We expect that, given that you have appointed the Secretary-General of the National Assembly to give you a bit of a political hand, you will put two members of the Senate on a coalition basis so that this matter will be balanced. This has been used to evaluate this body to the end. This commission, which, somehow because of this concealment of the political background, still served for the political accounts, even if it wants to do so, of course it can no longer do so because it is exposed, is in the clear. Now even the most naive see that what happened on 7 January 2013 was a scenario that was political. On the basis of a report on which many legal experts have expressed reasonable doubts about its expertise, the Corruption Commission has ensured that another Janša government has been suspended. Of course, we all feel the consequences, and we will feel them for a while. This country's debt increased by almost €9 billion in a good year. Slovenia is already in charge of almost EUR 30 billion because of these procedures and this work, for example, of political corruption, in the gravest sense of the word. 30 billion euros. At the end of 2008, at the end of the first Janša government's mandate, it amounted to less than €8 billion. Thus, in almost 20 years of the independent state we have not been able to do so, this debt has not been increased as it was then increased in one mandate of Pahoreva and within one year of the mandate of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. Every citizen, including newborns, is owed almost EUR 15 000. As one of my colleagues said, for two years, the average Slovenian had to work to pay off this debt, of course, he should not eat anything, nor should he drink any housing costs. You have done so, ladies and gentlemen, and you continue to do so: Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, DeSUS and the National List. And don't talk about having nothing to do with it, and there's nothing you can do about it. By rejecting all the proposed decisions, by rejecting a decision where the National Assembly would commit the Government to draw up appropriate systemic legal solutions that would limit or eliminate systemic corruption in the public and private sectors and as the majority owner of the New Ljubljana Bank, you have prevented the possibility of at least something in this area being done. So, of course, you have this responsibility, and you have taken it upon yourself with this silence and with this inappropriate conduct, as well as with the responsibility that the Slovenian pensioner will not be able to compare for the next twenty years with the Austrian pensioner, at least for the next twenty years. Because you talk one thing and the other you work. Your actions are completely contrary to what you're saying. Slovenian people, Slovenian people and pensioners have enough of these words. They have enough illusions about how a party takes care of the pension population, and in the National Assembly they take just the opposite measures that go to the detriment of those people who go to harm their own populations. It will also be interesting to hear what the defenders of national interest will say, in this case, the Social Democrats now that the Minister of Finance has announced that he will sell everything, everything you said a year ago, that it is an issue of national interest, national places. But today you're quiet. You're quiet when they sell you everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today I think there's been some wrong aces. In my opinion, everyone has an opinion. Isn't it? The first is that, of course, the National Assembly is not to discuss this. Yeah, who, ladies and gentlemen, if not the National Assembly? The National Assembly is a legislative body, in fact depending on the operation, the quality of the functioning of the National Assembly depends on the quality of operation of the whole country. Then we have to ask ourselves how we did this work. That's the first, I think, wrong thesis today. The second is to leave the matter to the institutions of the system. Ladies and gentlemen, if the institutions of the system are with those who are supposed to investigate them, they are incestuous! Let me put it a little bit more precisely, what does that mean by an incest relationship? How should KPK investigate the New Ljubljana Bank if they are bribed for jobs! Did I make myself clear? And thirdly, of course, the National Assembly is not to blame for anything to leave to the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank. It won't hold! Clearly, we don't understand the functioning of the system institutions. He just appointed the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board called the Government, the Government appoints Parliament, the Parliament is the legislative body. And there's a lot of responsibility in Parliament. Do you know what Mr Matjaž Kovačič said last time on the investigative committee to the Members? Some, however, were greatly dismayed. He showed, the government and parliament, you're responsible for the situation in the banking system. Right. I'm really curious. I'm going to the board of inquiry because I'm collecting material for the next book. You'll see what interesting things we'll read. You've seen the documents, too. I come to the papers because people send them to me. They sent me a contract with Propiar. I didn't ask for it. I didn't even know it existed. Even a year after I got it, about a year ago, the journalist, when I gave him the contract, found that he was a lady, and now I must say correctly, Alenka Vidic was already on the child of the Pratratnik. Well, let's get a little more specific. Let me explain this definition of corporate conduct. I see we use the word corporately a lot. I think most people who talk don't even know what it is. Tell me the definition of corporate conduct at one of the next meetings, perhaps. As far as the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is concerned, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, what was the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service in the case of real estate law? Mr. Secretary of State, what was your opinion? Great, great law. Great marriage, everybody's great until we crashed. Mr. Arhar is, and now listen to me, a good indicator of the situation in this country. You know why? I've been thinking a lot, and I went back to watch. He's been somehow very strongly involved in social-political-banking life for 20 years. A man who knows a lot knows a lot, he knows a lot of backgrounds. He is an indicator, and at a critical moment he estimated that there is no point in going through this game anymore because we are at the end, and he does not want to be the chairman of the Bank's Supervisory Board, which, literally, with the help of policy, stole several billion euros from its citizens. But the parliamentarians are happy to bless this, I think you're on fire, and I didn't vote for anything. It's a sad truth. Of course, it would be best if no one said anything. It's like in that cartoon about King Julius, "Tell me what you want to hear." That's not working! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u102	Yes, thank you very much. I've made a few more observations at the time, a few conclusions, I'll say, myself, and I could get some more information. See, many of you mentioned, even mentioned yourself at the outset, a few days ago, if it was simply because no one was suitable at the Ljubljana Bank for the occupation of this job. That's not true. It is true that the President of the Management Board, Mr Medja, has said that any application to the call is pointless because the job has already been given to an external candidate. And since, of course, he had already called on Mr Praprotnik in February, even before him, Mr Klemenčič, to apply and later to do so, it was clear, of course, that the job was also given to those external candidates. But, of course, it is also essential that the service that Mr Praprotnik is running today, which is a jackpot or, as has been said before, is certainly a reward for the work done. Just as his previous job was a very important award for his journalistic work. This service, see, in addition to having all communication with Banka Slovenije, this service is also responsible for all subsidiaries. This service is responsible for communication with the Anti-Corruption Commission. This service is the one that is working with Mr Kozina, who is working with the NPU, who is working with the police, and ultimately is also providing them with information on what they think is a crime and what they believe is not a crime, what is a bad credit, what they believe is not a bad credit. And now, of course, who's going to do all of this in the future? Mr Praprotenik, who will receive three more, I would stress that there are three outside associates. Although the president of the board received a proposal on the table that three new co-workers were needed and that such a proposal should be sought – such a proposal was received by the president of the administration at the table – two with an internal invitation and one with an external one, Mr Medja made it clear that all three would be external. So, we can expect something from now on? It is simply that Mr. Pratort will employ three more people, of course, like him, written on his skin. And on the skin of the business he'll have to do. The fact is, of course, that, I think, I have already proved that he has won the prize and that this job is a reward for what he has not done and should be done by law. In fact, he was investigating Mr Medje's corruption and one week earlier than we said, he was eliminated and there was no corruption. It was everyone else's fault for the corruption, not him. And this is the result of the Commission's work to prevent corruption. Of course, the job is now a prize, but we can ask ourselves what this prize means or what this gentleman will do there. First of all, he will take care of the public image of Mr Medje. This is his first assignment, which we can conclude from some of the data that these people send, which of course they are observing. In some ways, he will look after the external image, because Mr Medja reacts to everything that could violate his external beautiful image. What letter does he care a little less about and answer it later or not at all? To me, for example, he answered only today. Then the following is to say that he will care — for what? To take care of what is and what is not money laundering, he will then worry about leaking information, in short, preventing the flow of information. But he will probably do well because he has journalistic experience and is a journalist by profession, so that he can do the job well. The protection of classified information will do well because it is very well known from the time of the Owl, for he wrote, as I said before, 600 grams of articles on the negotiation of the incident in the Bay of Piranhas, and when Tone Rop was convicted, there was no article of his. It will also take care to prevent the trafficking of information. This will be very interesting — that is what it says in the description of works and tasks. It will also take care to prevent conflicts of interest. But there is a specialist here, because we know that it can be eliminated, and then there is corruption or there is no corruption, and that will be very successful. It will also deal with the prevention of restrictions on competition. All this with the press experience, of course in a way that we don't approve of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. For me, legal certainty comes first. And that is why I have read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service very precisely, and even after I participated in and listened to this debate at Friday, I am convinced that the majority is directed towards the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission, otherwise, under a specific situation of appointment for the service, the credibility of the anti-corruption commission should now fade. Whoever has read the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the magnetogram will also show the truth or the strength of my statements, so I will not deal with challenging certain replicas or anything else, but the Legislative and Legal Service specifically points out that the National Assembly, in addition to the legislative and electoral functions, also has a supervisory function, but also points out the principle of the division of power and how the National Assembly must ensure that it does not exceed its powers. And when I spoke about this at the third and fourth points of the proposed decision, I recall once again the legislative opinion.-The legal service which speaks of the fact that, from a legal point of view, the draft act is an important species and is linked to the nature of the proposed act. What they could do to me would be a recommendation. Because, according to the principle of the division of power, the executive branch is responsible for proposing legal solutions in the first place after the constitution and under the statutory position. And once again, if we wanted to look at it from this point of view, we should talk about the recommendation at 3rd and 4th. The proposer has never said that we should discuss the recommendation, but that we should always discuss the decision. Now, as regards the Bank of Slovenia issue, it is the case where it goes beyond the National Assembly in the second decision that it actually infringes Article 65 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, under which individual persons of the Bank of Slovenia are authorised to exercise a member of the administration of each bank if they meet certain conditions. But before that, we have heard even a suggestion that the National Assembly freezes a function. And while I am already at this point, this could now continue, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, I remind you of a statement by Mr Arhar, just at the beginning of his debate on the Committee, when he spoke about the powers of the Supervisory Council in a shareholder society, he said: "So from this point of view, I do not know that anyone from here, but with all due respect for the highest level of the National Assembly, could give directives." It is a matter of direct concern that politics would impose something on the President of the Supervisory Board. And, once again, I don't know how you know what Mr. Arhar meant, I can judge by what's written in the tape. Nor do I judge what he said to anyone from the media later, but I refer to what is written in the tape. So I want to say, look, the procedure was carried out as prescribed and then everything else about the internal invitation to tender. I didn't make one valuable judgment, one word about it, which would suggest that I in any way advocate any appointment. I am not defending any delicacies and nothing of this, but I am defending the rule of law, defending that we must respect the principle of power-sharing as legislators and that, of course, we must also respect people's feelings and that we cannot, because 700 unemployed people will be in the bank, continue to say why one of these 700 unemployed has not been selected. So it is necessary to speak honestly and quote.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Since I see requests for replicas, I need to inform you that there is no replica because we're sharing time. It's the rules of procedure. In fact, the government's representative wanted a word, and then the proposer. Here you go, mag. Mitya Mavko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. In conclusion, perhaps only a few key measures already taken by the Government have already been adopted by the National Assembly, or it intends to submit them to the National Assembly in the coming weeks and months on the issue of preventing corruption and addressing systemic corruption. If I can quote from the Commission's annual report on anti-corruption, one sentence, according to the Commission, "transparency is the worst enemy of corruption". And in the field of transparency, we believe that this National Assembly has already taken a very large step towards preventing the future occurrence of corruption by adopting a new law on access to information of a public nature, which will to a large extent, at a much larger level, change the functioning of state-owned companies, including the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and risked items that have been transferred to a bad bank. We are fully committed to the consistent respect for this adopted law, as well as to the consistent respect for other laws adopted in the field of access to information of a public nature. In a very short time, it will be very transparent to see what has already been transferred to the bank's debt management company. As I said myself in the introductory address — as well as the State Secretary from the Ministry of the Interior — are preparing amendments to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which will address a number of issues raised by either the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or the issues raised in today's debate. We announced that the law would be submitted to the National Assembly this year. In addition, I would like to point out two more systemic measures, which the Commission has also pointed out to prevent corruption. The first is the Slovenian State Holding Act, where we have completely redefined a new chapter, which was warmly welcomed by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. We are pleased to introduce greater robustness in dealing with the risks of corruption, preventing conflicts of interest and, above all, a greater commitment to the transparency of state-owned societies. The last, very important thing also highlighted by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption relates to public procurement. Here, too, we have been faced with the view that, mainly in the field of health due to the system or to the current crackdown of public procurement in the health system, there are risks of corruption. We have already intervened here in amending public procurement legislation and introduced a joint procurement obligation. In addition to the four areas I have mentioned, the government intends to seriously interfere with both the legislative frameworks and the implementation frameworks in case of practice in the comprehensive programme adopted to deal with the emergence of systemic corruption. There will definitely be plenty of options to discuss individual solutions. Believe that the Government is taking the problems of this area very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Mr. Jože Tanko, can I see you on behalf of Do you have a procedure? [[…]] Here you go. You've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! So the practice is that the applicant is supposed to have, but nowhere in the rules of procedure has this been written, the last five minutes have been available to say. Everyone else who would like to make a procedural call, but I would just like to remind you of what Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly says. He goes like this: "A Member who wants to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, that the Chairman should speak as soon as he requests it. The speech of such a Member shall not last more than 3 minutes." I hope that all those who report in advance will have a procedural proposal to discuss the use of the Rules of Procedure rather than the content of this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u109	Thank you very much. If I may ask for peace in the hall. Previously, there was a desire for replicas on this side, and I explained that, according to the Rules of Procedure, replicas are not possible in this time-sharing, but there were no procedural proposals. Now Mrs Sonja Ramšak has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I've already requested a procedural proposal. In particular, I suggest that in the future you alert the operators if they point out that the debaters did not tell the truth or that they cited different facts. I would point out, in the very part where Mrs Potrata referred to Article 65 of the Banking Act, that when we talked about the powers of the Bank of Slovenia and our proposals that we actually refer to Article 61 of the Banking Act, where extensive powers are defined and the ZPS also referred to them in its opinion. On the contrary, "only in relation to members of the Board and the Supervisory Board, more detailed rules shall be laid down on the conduct of members of the Board and members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank in the performance of this function in accordance with the standards of appropriate professional prudence and the highest ethical standards of management and the more detailed content of the documentation to which the candidate for a member of the Bank's Board proves compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 63 of the Banking Act". And this is the second point of the decision that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u111	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal, it was an abuse of a procedural proposal. By not being able to know from what documents the debaters are discussing as President, and I cannot put them on the lie or the truth. As the last speaker, I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u112	Thank you very much. However, as far as the division of power is concerned, some in this National Assembly imagine that it is the State Assembly which provides money to the banking system through the adoption of acts, and the banking system independently shares it for bad loans, for high wages, for privileges and other things. I expected Mr Mavk, Secretary of State, to say what the Government would do in this particular case, which is the subject of the debate of the National Assembly. The government is, in one way or another, the manager of the state property management via the Soda, Kad and directly. In this case, I would expect the Government, as a majority or 100% of the bank's owners, to do something because it probably represents the assembly in this system. The congregation deals with overseers, appoints them, and disposes of them, and at any time you can replace everything, overseers set up and dispose of the administration. And in this case, when it comes to such a conflict of interest, to violate the principles of integrity, to put an end to the investigation procedures for certain promises of service, the government should react here. Mr. Mavko, everything you've said the government will do is completely irrelevant. You have a concrete case here, and in this particular case the government should react if the executive power is in this country, and make sure that this corporate state works also handle matters in a manner that is dignified, appropriate and transparent and transparent, as you say. In this case, there is no transparency, and the Government will do nothing to clear this matter up today. Nothing. All that you and the members of the coalition have been talking about is a forecast of what will happen in the future. However, if you are not able to materialise the provisions of existing laws that regulate those, as Vogrin said, "incessive situation", then it is pointless to propose anything in the field of corruption in this National Assembly. Those provisions on Slovenian State Holding are irrelevant because everything you write there is governed by the Integrity Act. We do not need two laws to prevent corruption. One, I don't know, one for the Slovenian state holding company. We can have one arrangement, one law, one commission to prevent corruption, and that is enough if it is able to do so. However, in cases that are also dealt with in this request, this Commission is unable to do so. As long as he can point at other people with his finger, as long as he can suspend life and work, for example, people who are not even close to his heart, until then the commission is oh and at all, the moment when something important has to be decided and cut into a sphere that is close to this coalition and this commission of inquiry, nothing happens. No reports, no findings, they get out like they didn't find anything and so on. This happened in the case of the KPK, at Korn Ferry, it was in the case of Virant and probably in other cases, which they did not even deal with. It is feared, however, that similar practice has been established for the next mandate period of the PSC for the next five years. The Commission's already-elective anti-corruption procedure has been carried out in some very strange way, with glammastika, by destroying evidence of what has been happening here. However, the government in this area does not have any predictable conduct. The President of the Government came to this National Assembly to support every minister who was intertwined for evidentiary, documented misconduct, illegal conduct, clienteleism, corruption. And as long as the President of the Government supports such actions by his ministers, Pikala, Viranta, Omerzel, even Cuffer and so on, by then you can accept any laws, the Government and the coalition, of which there will be nothing, just a massacre after those who may have committed any minor offense. However, the bag is limited, the main problems remain open and the Government works so that all these major problems leave open and do absolutely nothing in these areas. I think that's the key to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-04-15-SDZ6-Izredna-60.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a decision has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 60th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. Have a nice evening.
