ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 4th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members of Parliament: Marinka Levičar, Benedict Kopmajer, mag. Andrej Shircelj, mag. Matej Tonin, Ljubo Žnidar, Marijan Pojbič, Matjaž Hanžek, Andrej Chuš and Tomaž Lisec. I have invited Minister Dusan Mumorr, representative of the State Election Commission and candidates and candidates for Members and Members to the 1st item of the agenda, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, Mrs Vlasto Nussdorfer and the candidate for Deputy Ombudsman to the 3rd item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 25 September 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Group of the parties Mir Cerar, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the United Left and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek to the National Assembly propose to withdraw the 3rd item from the agenda of the 4th extraordinary meeting – this is the proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. You received the proposal by letter 29. 9. 2014 and published on the e-club. Would you like a representative of the motioner to step down? Dr. Simona Custec Lipicer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u2	Honorable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! The current proposal of the Commission's composition for the supervision of the intelligence and security services is identical to the same proposal of 10. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Members of SMC, DeSUS, SD, the United Left and ZaAB groups have not confirmed this proposal on the basis of the explanations already provided in the previous vote, so we will not vote on the exact same proposal for a decision at this meeting. In this regard, we refer to the second paragraph of Article 200 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that, in the event that the candidate list is not voted on, the appointment procedure must be repeated on the basis of new proposals from the parliamentary groups. This position is also supported by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of 18. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At this point, we would also like to point out that part of the supervision of security and intelligence services is also being carried out within the framework of the competent operation of the Ombudsman. This act provides for supervision in terms of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the legal security of citizens vis-à-vis national authorities. However, at his request, they must provide and transmit all information and information under his authority and enable him to carry out the investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u3	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. We have now heard an explanation which is completely incompatible with the Slovenian legal order. By withdrawing this item from the agenda today, the National Assembly avoids oversight of security and intelligence services. The National Assembly is solely competent to exercise control over these services, but the Ombudsman is the only one who can do so. Given that situations are very severe at home and in the world, especially because we have some control over the activities of groups going to war in Arab countries, we believe that the matter is not going as it should and that there is absolutely no control over this activity. It is interesting that there is a very widespread coalition, that is, an informal coalition of those that are problematic in making exactly the same proposals for the Commission's composition for the supervision of security and intelligence services. You could change your composition three times, but you're not in any case. None of the parliamentary parties has changed one person for the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission. Given that you do not refer to the law in your explanations, you refer to the Constitution and the laws, so do not base your proposal on the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, but you always argue this over and over again on the aversion against one of the proposed candidates. So your proposal is prepared to ad to the staff. Since yesterday your representative, your member of the parliamentary group, said it was difficult to avoid the impact of client networks on the operation of your client, and that some month and a half before that also Dr Mitja Horvat on the Mandate-Election Commission said that criminal associations could also set up a political party, then we can be sure in some way that what you are proposing is actually the continuation of a policy that has been established in previous mandates, that is to say before your predecessors. In short, your foundation is not based on respect for the rule of law, but on personal choices and on ensuring the functioning of all these groups, which influence in any way in an informal way, in an illegal way to work this country. And the surveillance of intelligence is, unfortunately, a victim of these groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u5	Would you like a representative of the motioner to step down? No, no, no. I am closing the debate on the withdrawal proposal and moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are deciding on a proposal to withdraw from the agenda. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 21. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference, with the adoption of the amendment or addition that we have just made. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 14. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it that the agenda of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. Before we move on to the 1st item of the agenda, I ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble, to repeat the oath provided for in Article 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The re-examination of the oath has only a symbolic meaning for an excuse for an unwitting failure, as the Minister, as it follows from the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, has already sworn an oath in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on 18 September 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u6	Your Honor! I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u7	Thank you, Minister of Finance. We're moving on to one. OF THE DAY, THAT'S THE DETERMINATION OF CANDIATES TO BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH 14. Members of the law on business performed the function of delegates instead of delegates who performed the function of the government. Because it's mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar, Karl Viktor Erjavac, Janko Webr and Mag. With the appointment of Minister and Minister of Government appointed by Mr Dejan Židan, the State Election Commission forwarded a decision to the National Assembly on which candidates and candidates have the right to replace the Member and Members who took office in the Government. The decision of the State Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following motion for a decision: At a time when a Member and Members serving in the Government may not perform the functions of a Member or a Member in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, as of today, instead of Magi. Julian Bizjak Mlakar Mag. Jana Jenko, born 12. 11. 1964, resident of Preska 1, Tržič, instead of Karl Viktor Erjavac Marija Antonija Kovacič, born 11. 3. 1946, inhabited Kardelje Square 1, Velenje, instead of Janka Vebra Dr. Franc Križanič, born 4. 12. 1954, living in Mlinska pot 10, Ljubljana, instead of mag. Diana Jewisha Marija Bachič, born 25. 8. 1947, South 12th Street, Murska Sobota. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. My fellow Members and my colleague are invited to join us and take their seats. I wish my colleagues and colleagues to successfully carry out the work of MEPs and Members in their parliamentary sessions. Congratulations to your new fellow Member! I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the agenda, this is a proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The group of 45 Members and Members, with the first signed Matjaz Han, shall be to the Assembly of the State 24. 9. 2014 proposed to elect Andrea Katič as Vice-President of the National Assembly. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler, Matjaž Han, for an additional explanation of the proposal for election.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u8	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! In these days we can say that we are somehow ahead of the finish line in the completion of the composition of this national assembly. New Members and new Members have joined us in the parliamentary meals, and I welcome them from this place, and I also, of course, congratulate them. Although we are on the opposite coasts many times, I believe that we must also elect a Vice-President or Vice-President of the National Assembly today. I believe that the interest of having a strong and stable leadership of the National Assembly is a common interest, so our decision must not be included in the coalition- opposition matrix, but rather our awareness that it is our joint leadership. Therefore, in the spirit of good work, we must give him support where he needs it, cultivate high expectations, and criticize him if necessary. However, it would be a mistake to continue to condemn, criticize, and accept the necessary trust on the basis of political controversies with this leadership. Only on the trust that swears to division and in the sincere intention of doing something good for our citizens and citizens will we be able to demonstrate to our so many times the singing of constructiveness and country-building, so today's decision should be made in the knowledge that it is not just the work of this institution. Social Democrats, respected and respected, we are proud to propose to the post of Vice-President an MP from our party, from among the types of Social Democrats, Mrs Andrejo Katič. The university graduate lawyer gained her rich work experience in a wide range of local community tasks in the municipality of Velenje, initially as a specialist in normative matters and later as a head of the law enforcement and property service. In 1998, she was entrusted with the post of Director of the Municipal Administration, which she carried out until her election to the post. Its multi-annual participation in the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia was also rewarded with recognition in the light of the achievements made in the development of local self-government. In the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, she has chaired the Commission on Legal and Legislative Matters since 2004. She was also a Community representative in the working group to the Commission to prevent corruption in order to draw up an integrity plan for local communities. During her work, Andreja Katič met with activities that further enriched her knowledge and experience. She was a member of the Management Board of the University of Maribor, President of the Council of the Velenje Library, member of the Council of Health House of Velenje and president of the association, which brings together the directors of municipal administrations of Slovenian municipalities. Among other things, she is a long-standing representative of the public in the Senate for complaints against the work of police officers. She is also the Commissioner of the Velenje project, a child-friendly city of Unicef. She participated in the establishment and work of a council to improve the safety of citizens and citizens of the Municipality of Velenje. In the light of its long-standing experience and knowledge in the field of legal and organisational, managerial tasks of local self-government, the lecturer of various conferences on governance and organisation of local self-government is. The country's priority and responsibility for the wider community have led to new challenges that it has met through a number of projects that have marked the development of a wider local community and created conditions for better human beings. The candidate, Mrs Andreja Katič, who is proposed for election to the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, expresses the necessary competence to carry out that function successfully. On the basis of the work experience, knowledge and, above all, personality qualities, among which the ability to constructively solve problems and conflicts is highlighted, I believe that Andreja Katič will give the Vice-President of the National Assembly a dimension signed with a constructive and consistent [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. For the Group of the Party of Mir Cerar, he has the word mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u10	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of Mir Cerar, we will unanimously support the proposed candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Andreja Katič. It is a candidate who has no doubt all the competence to lead our congregation professionally. Her leadership and legal knowledge ensure that she performs this task at a high level of professionalism. We are also convinced by her efforts to create a quality living environment at local level. In the light of her cooperation with various local projects, she showed her genuine concern for people. Its personality features have ensured a calm and proper management of the meetings. Andreja Katič will act as Vice-President of the National Assembly not only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but in the light of this she will also take care of the reputation of the National Assembly and endeavour to find compromises and trust in Members and Members. Ms Andreja Katič, Members of Parliament and Members of Stanka Mir Cerar, we express our unanimous support. On the basis of its competences, knowledge and personality, we believe that the Vice-President of the National Assembly will carry out the task of knowingly and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u11	Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats proposes Andrei Katič as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Our Members, including my client colleagues, may, on the basis of her dedicated and conscientious work and knowledge, attribute all necessary competences to perform this responsible function, a function which I see not only as a party's cut in the way of governance, but as a great responsibility to work and to the National Assembly, a foundation on which, through our work and relations, all Members and Members must restore public confidence in this house. The university lawyer has enriched her work experience in various challenging areas of local self-government and community development in general. Legal knowledge and accountability to people in the community led it through the implementation of a variety of projects that were successfully implemented among people within the municipality of Velenje and various organisational groups. We are particularly proud of the social democrats when we have the opportunity to boast with a party colleague who internalises these values, which are still at this point in the temple of democracy today. Righteousness and ability to overcome divisions I believe that the virtues that Andreja Katić will consistently abide by its high working and ethical standards are not only being respected but, above all, lived. I have no doubt that she will also do this in her work as Vice-President. Dear colleague Andrej Katič, I wish you a good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u13	For the United Left Group Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Comrades and comrades! I've been criticized before by some, comrades, to mention this in an inclusive manner, and now I'm going to welcome everyone in this way, but we're going to go to the content. Of course, the United Left Group is not part of the coalition, and the coalition has its freedom to propose whoever it wants, of course, I hope, a sober reflection. We welcome the proposal of Comrade Andreja to break some parliamentary tradition of male-centredness in these positions, mostly in a quarter of a century or less. On the other hand, we need to make some criticism of the proposal made by the former President of the National Assembly for Vice-President and, in fact, the theft of time, because it was known that the gentleman would run for Minister of Defence. In some informal conversations, we were told that you did it for the ochre. We, the United Left, even when we take power, and I hope that we will take over it sooner than in three mandates, colleague Brglez, are of course interested in policies and actions, not in the preservation of chairs. I hope that such practices will go into the past of Slovenian parliamentaryism. Based on these beautiful words and areas of work of the proposed Vice-President, I have no doubt that it would not work in the future in particular in the field of local development, and I also hope for the final regionalisation of Slovenia, including in the field of youth and children's issues. After all, I can admit that we met on Saturday in the field about this job. However, since it is from the valley of Shale, and especially from a colleague of Germany, said such a set of valuable judgments here, I hope that it will also be able to provide so much strength and help to resolve and untie a Gordi knot called TES 6. After all, SD was also strongly involved in this work. Maybe in the form of some kind of commission of inquiry. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate. On behalf of the proposer, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han. If you're quitting, then all the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since I do not see any desire for anyone else to discuss, I am concluding the debate. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Assembly shall act by secret ballot on the election of the Vice-President. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Dr. Mitja Horvat, Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party, mag. Bojana Muršič, Group of Social Democrats, Mr Miha Kordiš, Group of Members of the United Left and Mrs Iva Dimic, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? If not, we're moving on to a decision. Members and Members of Parliament, please re-check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Chamber shall be served to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a candidate for the Vice-President will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 12.40 p.m. and will last until 12.55 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 13.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u16	We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of item 2 which is the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of Andreja Katič as Vice-President of the National Assembly. The vote was held at the Assembly premises today, 30. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 74 ballots were distributed, 74 ballots were delivered, 13 ballots were invalid, 61 were valid. 60 members voted against by one Member. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Andreja Katič was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. I congratulate the newly elected Vice-President of the National Assembly, Andreja Katič, and wish her great success in her duties. / applause/ I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under this we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a Deputy Ombudsman. The Ombudsman shall be by letter of 15. 9. 2014 She proposed to the National Assembly that Tonček Dolčič be reappointed as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. I give the floor to the applicant, the Ombudsman of Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, to further explain the proposal for appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u17	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today I am here before you to present first and then another proposal to appoint my deputy. Allow me to take this opportunity to present briefly in the introduction the institution of human rights, i.e. a guardian who normally has four deputies, but at least two. In all twenty years, as long as there is an institution of the Ombudsman in the Republic of Slovenia, only six deputies have exchanged in this situation. So the current four who are still deputies, and the two who left, one retired and the other went to the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia. I was ahead of the job last year when I became the fourth guardian in the Republic of Slovenia to propose a deputy who was already a deputy to the former Ombudsman, Dr. Čebaškova. I made my own decision as a new one, especially after what the collective thought, how professional people were with the guardian, because all that mattered to me was that people were working. And that's when I decided to keep it going, and so I'm proposing the new deputy mags. Cornelia Marzel. And so she became a new deputy, in a new six-year term. The term of office of the two of them has just expired. We are now talking about the first deputy, whose term is due only at the beginning of next year, Tonček Dolčič. When you look at his résumé, born in 1954, you find out that he's had it before. Well, he's been with the Ombudsman for the past 13 years, but he's had important responsibilities in the legislative field before. As it is said, he was the Director of the Professional Service for the first time during this period of 13 years, which is very important, because the Director of the Professional Service is the one who is familiar with all the work of the Ombudsman, in very different fields. Later, during the period of the previous two ombudsmen, he was a deputy, both the predecessors of Dr. Čebashkova and Mr. Hanžk. He took over a very important area, the area of family, health, social security, children, in short, all that is still being cut into our lives and shows how people live, what they remind us of. These are very sensitive topics that sometimes make us more vulnerable, as they also touch all vulnerable groups in our society, including children with special needs. The project was also carried out by the Advocate the voice of the child, who in 6 years as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, reaps fine results. We also reported on this in a special report, which was adopted here in the National Assembly with great approval. And although we wanted this project to have a special place, that is, outside the Ombudsman, it is still a pilot project with us and we also successfully implement it, because the children get their messenger, which helps them in the difficult moments of their daily life. So it is a person who is very committed to the field, and it is a very sensitive area of our activity. He is well integrated into the collective, and he also has many of his professional associates to work with. And when I thought about what to do, I asked myself: is it right that at the time when the new guardian comes and a mandate expires, he will seek out a group of new and young people, which was also discussed on the Mandate-Election Commission. I've been thinking about it a lot, but I finally realized that if someone proved themselves, it's only right that they stay. And that's why I suggested it because I think it's right and it certainly deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u18	Let me say that the proposal was also addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the Council, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party, for her by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u19	Dear President, honourable Members, respectable guardian of human rights! The Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar will support the Ombudsman's proposal to appoint Tončko Dolčič as Deputy Ombudsman. A look at his work opus shows that it is a professional and competent man who has always advocated the protection of rights that are still important in recent times. We have seen that children’s rights are at stake, which is especially important in the present time when we are witnessing trafficking in human beings. Exploiting children for sexual purposes and what is the problem of the modern world, modern capitalism – the exploitation of children for the labour force. He devoted a large part of his career and his life to these very points, given the rich opus of the proposed candidate. Not only did he put free time in his work to this function of protecting human rights, but it is crucial that he also spent part of his free time on various projects, working with NGOs and what he has contributed to society. And in view of everything that is said, the Mira Cerar Group will endorse the Ombudsman's proposed proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u20	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Madam Guardian! Allow me to present in the common position the opinion of the Group concerning the two Deputy Ombudsman. In February 2013, we decided who would be the new Ombudsman in the National Assembly. Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer received more than a convincing number of votes at that time, including with the majority support of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. At the time of her appointment, I said that we did not have exactly the right time to choose the guardian, and that we therefore expect her to do otherwise as the new guardian, in particular in that she would have the same criteria for everyone and with the same care and responsibility to deal with any human rights violation, and in particular that when a violation of human rights is revealed in the public, she would also react in a self-initiative manner and raise public awareness of the abuses that are taking place in accordance with the Ombudsman's law. So far, I can say that this important institute, which it has not used in its hands, has not yet been used, although in our view it should point out publicly some human rights violations that are taking place, for example, in the judiciary. Similarly, we expect her deputies. We therefore have an important decision to make on whether we will reaffirm the mandates of the two deputies, Mr Tonet Dolčič and Mr Jernej Rovšk. Undoubtedly, it is a responsible function that oversees the functioning of the rule of law, justice and society and the realization of human rights. I know both deputies because they have been in this place for a very long time, which suggests that some freshness and ventilation in this area would also come in handy, but that is the Ombudsman's decision. In the SDS Group, we closely monitor the work of the Ombudsman and her deputies. It must be said that they do not meet our best expectations. Given that the Ombudsman's powers are divided into individual areas within which each of the Deputys is responsible, it is extremely incomprehensible that most of the time no one is involved in petitions and in human rights and equal opportunities, although the first should take a clear position on the issues addressed. Like the Ombudsman, all four deputies of a person with high integrity, with a sense of fellow human being, must be sensitive to the injustices that are happening to him. These must be individuals people trust. They must be politically unburdened and with a strong sense of justice. Political definition, however, is all too often present in the decisions of the deputies we are talking about today, who, for example, will come to a meeting of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, do not decide on the basis of expertise and in the interest of protecting human rights, but on the basis of political beliefs, although these are issues where human rights have been clearly violated. Let me recall only the last session, when we dealt with human rights violations in the judiciary on the Commission, among the judges, with the emphasis on human rights violations by the President of the Supreme Court, Branko Masleš. This man's rights have been violated 14 times in the courts of which he was a member. However, for his reward instead of some sanctions – this is what we would expect – he was given the position of President of the Supreme Court. This topic, however, did not seem to matter to the guardian or to any of her deputies. Ignorance of content, which should be one of the guardian's priorities, is unacceptable for us because the Ombudsman, together with his deputies, is the first person and authority in the country in the field of human rights protection. I have already explained to the Mandate-Election Commission that we will not support the Deputy Ombudsman, who is proposed today, for previously justified reasons in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u22	The text is given by the United Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u23	Dear Mr President, a respected guardian, a respected colleague and colleague! On behalf of the United Left, I will give an opinion on both candidates for the Deputy Ombudsman. The Ombudsman in Slovenia celebrates the 20th anniversary of his existence this year. This institution belongs to a group of important human protectionists against systemic abuse, which is a common problem with us. At the time of her existence, she gained a great reputation among citizens. It has highlighted and pointed out the many pressing problems of human rights violations in many areas, such as deleted children, child protection, surveillance of security services and so on. Regrettably, like in courts, political populism and inter-party health often make this institution even more effective. As with individual courts or politicians, they often challenge their legitimacy to collect political points or to exercise the narrow interests of their clients. Although in many countries, which are set as a model for us by listed parties, the conclusions of institutions such as the Ombudsman are taken seriously and followed by their demands. In Slovenia, she pointed out the pressing issues in areas where the ombudsman is concerned, often becoming a victim of the collection of political points, or they run into deaf ears in determining. Although the Slovenian Law on the Ombudsman is one of the best in Europe. It allows the Ombudsman to function more broadly than the classic ombudsman laws, thus becoming a model for other laws across Europe. According to the Slovenian example, most of the laws in the countries of the former Yugoslavia are written in a broader way, for example, in Greek. This allows the Ombudsman to retain certain activities that should be carried out by other institutions and often do not. This broadens the area of ombudsman, as it massages those gaps in the protection of the rights of individual groups of people who are often not interested in party policies. The envisaged development of the Ombudsman in the coming years is one of the solutions that at least initially needs people with experience in these areas. As Comrade Hanžek likes to say, human rights cannot wait for the end of the crisis. Both candidates for the deputy guardian, Tonček Dolčič and Rovšek, have demonstrated by their experiences and work that they are aware of this and that we support them in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u24	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u25	Dear President, colleague and colleague, respectable guardian of human rights! As my predecessors, I will also present the position of New Slovenia on both proposals for the Deputy Ombudsman. We know that the Ombudsman's influence is particularly informal. The Ombudsman does not have powers of authority, so his power is essentially the authority that the Ombudsman and her co-workers must have, and therefore the Ombudsman's communication with the public and the Ombudsman's office, or the example that he gives to people, are essential. The Ombudsman is therefore a strong authority that must be decided on the basis of a Constitution, a declaration and a resolution on human rights in order to ensure respect for human rights. The Ombudsman must be a loud advocate of the weakest or those deprived of or violated human rights. The Ombudsman, who has been elected in the National Assembly with more than two-thirds of the Members and Members, has the right to propose two of his deputies on his proposal. In this case, the Ombudsman proposes to Mr Jernej Rovšek and Mr Tonet Dolčič as her deputy. They are both experienced in this field, there is no doubt about it. Jernej Rovšek became Deputy Ombudsman 20 years ago, in 1994. Tone Dolčič was first appointed Ombudsman in 2003. Since they serve as deputy guardians for 20 and 11 years, it is as if they had no other professional and experienced people in Slovenia who would be willing to take on this very important task. In our view, it is certainly not good that someone has been in such a responsible position for so many years, since, despite having a good count of experience, he has somehow fallen asleep and has more difficulty seeing new challenges and possible improvements. We believe that a fresh wind is also needed at the Ombudsman's office. In New Slovenia, we agree that the appointment of deputies is primarily the responsibility of the Ombudsman, that is, respected Mrs Nussdorfer, that is your right. We cannot support your proposal, however, because your proposal is not a marriage that the work of the Ombudsman will be even better in the next period or in the future than it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u26	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr Franz Breznik, SDS, has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will somehow continue my debate as I continued on the Mandate-Election Commission. I myself am aware of what the Ombudsman institution means. It has a sort of central point in a younger country, such as Slovenia, the last mass beating of human rights was also one of the main points of why we left the former totalitarian Yugoslavia. Even today, many injustices have never been rectified; criminals have never come before the face of justice. Slovenia and all former post-communist countries have never had their Nuremberg. Never. When we discussed some of the topics on the Commission's petitions, we experienced, as you know, an extremely poor response, especially by the then coalition parties, including all of them, the Ombudsman and all of his deputies. I was a little disappointed here, despite the fact that I personally highly esteem and supported the Ombudsman. The second part of my debate must go on to say that Slovenia is ahead of the extraordinary economic crisis that is coming in the second wave. Maybe you're not aware of everyone sitting here today. I will speak with some words of economists, who I think we deserve the name of an economist, that we are in this composition today before the dictatorship of bureaucrats and public servants in the National Assembly. Look, at the time of the worst economic crisis, where, even in my place, Lenart, recently 412 workers lost their jobs, because we have become an uncompetitive state, so also in the institution of the Ombudsman, we could say that we will not, say, appoint them, because the law allows between two and four deputies. So an example of the rationality of all the institutions of the country will be needed if we are to or in the coming months put in place some measures to increase our country's competitiveness. As you know, we have remained in the 70th place, and we are in the last place in the world on a common scale in the stability of the banking system. Look, one of the things that comes into this call is the appointment of deputies. How are we going to cut, say, pensions, how are we going to forgive from the public sector, how are we going to get there? Today we can for the first time see to it that we reduce, say, the appointment to reduce employees in this institution, even though we need to. Unfortunately, it won't be any different. Dear colleagues, it won't work. I wish you well. It's interesting that I believe that some of you are aware of this and that you are acting on some kind of automaticity. But I am sure that in the coming months, when the finance minister examines the hole in our current budget, when he looks at the situation on the world markets, I believe that our outside trading partners are also coming into a partial recession. I hope that you are also aware that Germany is already reducing certain orders and that it will be possible for our exporters to turn out to be extremely low in the next spring. There will then be a need for a thorough short-term reduction in the number of employees, a reduction in certain expenditure in certain institutions. I believe that the Ombudsman, with two deputies in these difficult times of crisis, could survive. I personally have no reservations about the two candidates who are likely to be elected today, but I also want here that your policy, which you have formed or had as a proposal before these elections, that this is a policy of new faces, young people with new ideas so that certain institutions can also overwind. That's what we've forgotten about this appointment. So there are a number of reasons why I will personally, as is colleague Irgl on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, and also today in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors that this is not a personal offense to the Ombudsman or her deputies, but it is a formal matter which is decisive in these difficult and critical times for our people, our citizens and citizens. That is why, unfortunately, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u28	Mr Jože Tanko, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, Madam Guardian! The Ombudsman has a very special place in each system. In fact, it is the only institution that is systematically placed in the legal order of any country solely to protect the interests of individuals, the interests of citizens against the institutions of that country. As we look at this whole system, as well as at the functioning of human rights guardians in recent times, it is regrettable that the operation of the guardians and their deputies has not always been in line with the legal regime and with the task of the Ombudsman in this system. We can see that in some areas the guardians have been very active. I remember the Ombudsman's intervention, for example, in the Public Finance Balance Act, when it became very strong, the former guardian, for the interests of a particular group. But now we also have problems that open from day to day. It is pointed out that there have been many problems in the judiciary when human rights have been violated even in judicial decisions. Many of these cases have recently been proposed, including many, even the Chief Justice or the President of the Supreme Court, who appeared among human rights violators because his decisions have been annulled, but in this fundamental area of some arrangement, that is, the so-called judiciary, the Ombudsman has not intervened in some way, we have not seen any particular intervention or activity. The law also allows the Ombudsman to take the initiative not only to appeal to the citizen, but also to deal with certain issues on his own initiative, broader issues which are important for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and for the legal security of citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. It makes him feel better. Now I am just asking all those, including the guardian, whether this provision of the law has ever been applied in this country. Legal certainty is regulated or sanctioned in courts and we find that the Court violates human rights. I think that all those who give so much attention to this international activity of the Ombudsman should pay much more attention to the internal functioning of the Ombudsman. It can be advocated for human rights in Botswana, Bosnia, Rwanda and so on and you write laboratories and positions for various European institutions. It is more difficult to lower ourselves to the level of protection of human rights in our own country. We have the institutions of this country and also the Ombudsman primarily for our citizens. And in this respect, we would expect a response from both the Ombudsman and the persons working for her as deputies or officials. I think that the area that has recently opened up, and these are human rights violations in the field of justice, particularly problematic, deserve special attention from both the Ombudsman and the Council of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, including the National Assembly. I believe that such excesses, which have occurred and are now being triggered, cannot be ignored and not well. That the situation in this area is certainly bad, this report on the independence of the judiciary also shows. After this study, we even went after some bantustas in South Africa, behind Swaziland, behind Lesotho and so on. If this is not alarming information regarding the classification of Slovenia on the judiciary independence scale – this is also related to the quality of the judiciary work and also to all the institutions that this judiciary must monitor – then I do not know what else is to be supported in this country. I don't support the deputy guardian's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u30	Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, Head of Human Rights, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u31	Respected and respected! Once again, I have listened to this debate on the previous Commission, the Mandate-Voluntary. I guarantee that we will take all your well-intentioned comments into account with the Ombudsman in the future, because in all the years ahead of me, we can do a lot more. As far as justice is concerned, the Ombudsman is closely monitoring the situation in the judiciary, but of course within his legal options, because the legislation is clear when we can advertise, for what purposes – when it comes to delaying proceedings – and here we are very much watching over judicial decisions or only over trials that sometimes take too long. You have been able to read about this in our annual report, which is so far the most extensive, since it covers as many as 400 pages and has 150 recommendations to the national authorities. So we have also been very active in this area. Of course, in Tallinn, where the European Conference of Guardians and Institutions for the Protection of Human Rights was held, we also discussed this very subject, whether the Ombudsman could be a competitor or could control the judiciary, and elsewhere it is roughly the same. Therefore, the Ombudsman should remain there and the judiciary should judge that we have different levels of court, that any possibility of recourse is available. With regard to my own initiatives, I can assure you that there have never been as many of them with the Ombudsman this year. Since I started my mandate, staff and I have also been actively monitoring public reporting, including the media, and opening up a number of topics, but it should be added that they open up on their own initiative when it comes to some systemic errors, shortcomings when this can lead to a better part of certain institutions. And last but not least about saving. I have to say to myself that I came to the Ombudsman last February. In the year before that, seven people left, most of them retired, so we started with the smallest team. Even now, the Guardian's team is very weakened. We also have a few longer hospitals, we have three maternity leavers until recently, we still have two, so the professionals are the ones who really have to work hard, because they belong to an extremely large number of jobs. This year there is an increase in both the number of calls and the number of initiatives, the number of documents we receive. I interpret this as a reflection of the crisis, because people write, trust the guardian, come to us, we have a very large number of visits and also an increased number of visits to external operations. We can do all of this with a smaller frame. However, I can't imagine that I could do this with two deputies, because their areas of work are so specific that they run departments that require in-depth work and, of course, prior experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u32	This concludes the debate and brings us to a vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. I put to the vote a motion for a decision appointing Tonček Dolčič as Deputy Ombudsman, and the term of office shall begin at 31. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 15. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly appointed Tončka Dolčič as the Deputy Ombudsman, so I ask him to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u33	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u34	I congratulate the Deputy Ombudsman on his appointment and wish him a successful job! We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a Deputy Ombudsman. The Ombudsman shall be by letter of 21. 9. 2014 She proposed to the National Assembly that Jernej Rovšek be reappointed as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of 6 years. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, to explain the proposal for appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u35	Again, Mr President, honourable Members and Members! So this time I am here with another proposal to appoint Deputy Jernej Rovšek. I cannot help but say that the Ombudsman celebrates this year's 20th anniversary and that we are at this very moment in the preparation of a special publication, which is a difficult work, because it will show what the Ombudsman has done in all 20 years, namely in three completed and one-started terms of the Ombudsman. It is therefore a period of time to look back, to face the past, to see how successful we have been in making recommendations to the State authorities, to the National Assembly, to the Government, in short, whether our efforts have been made in these years or not. That's why it's good to have someone in the institution who you can call the father of this institution and the Law on the Ombudsman. And this is Mr Jernej Rovšek, because he was already the predecessor of the Ombudsman, he worked in the Council for the Protection of Human Rights, an important institution that actually created the Ombudsman's institution. And this later, of course, continued in very sensitive areas, which touch on discrimination, when we know how severe discrimination can be to groups that are marginal, who do not feel equally accepted in our society and who call for help every day. Here are also the protection of personal data, access to information of a public nature, in short, very sensitive areas, both in us and abroad, as well as those that need to be given a lot of attention. He was also educated abroad, which you have certainly read in his CV, and he is also now involved in a number of activities, international activities where he is considered a senior expert. When I thought about what to do, because his term of office is seven. 11. 2014, I also found it inappropriate to ask someone to leave after creating an institution and spending 20 years in it and doing a lot for people inside and outside of it, but he is still willing to work in an area that he knows and masters, and he is also working with young people every day to give them instructions to teach them that he is actually the one who is spreading his knowledge, and that is why I have also made this proposal for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u36	I also note in this proposal that it has been treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent working body, which has reported in writing to the assembly and has submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl. No, no, no. The following is a presentation of the position of the Party's Group, Mir Cerar, for her Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u37	Dear President, respect for the guardian of human rights, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Members! In the case of the next candidate's proposal, the SMC Group will also support the Ombudsman's proposal and support Mr Jernej Rovško's appointment as Deputy Ombudsman. In reviewing his career, we see that he devoted much of his career to building an institution that is very important, 20 years old, as we have heard, but it is a small, young institution for democracy in which we are. He followed the Scandinavian model, but I find in the review of its operation and in the reports of the institution itself that we have exceeded the Scandinavian model and taken a step further and have been a model for some other democracies. Since the candidate has devoted his entire career to the protection of human rights and has focused on an item that is very important today, namely the constitutional issue and the security issue, which has been repeatedly misused for repressive purposes in recent times, and the Ombudsman encourages people to see what goes beyond the Constitution of the guaranteed right and goes into that dark field of repression that restricts human rights. In his work, the candidate drew attention to these errors and focused in particular on the principles and topics most infringing these rights. These are in the current era of migration, and these are also repressive measures by countries in the field of terrorism, where we are exceeding certain guaranteed rights, and that society is passing into a penal society, which means that sanctions in society are increasing but do not have the desired effect. In view of everything and given that we have really exceeded that Scandinavian model in some contexts, I hope that the institution will also work in the future in the light of experience and that it will set the desired goals with such people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u38	We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The text is prepared by Dr Vinko Gorenak, SDS, Mr Franz Breznik, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. When I weighed between whether I should perform at this point, Madam Guardian, or not, I hesitated a bit mainly for the reason that we know each other for a number of years. However, it is my principle that commands me to take part in this item of the agenda and simply tell you, like every person and like I do what I think. I was very pleased when our party just before the vote expressed its support for your appointment. But I must say that every day you perform your duties as guardian convinces me that we have made a great mistake. It's a big mistake. Let me explain. See, this Mr Rovšek, whom we are talking about today, has already taken a very clear position with the former Ombudsman and has opposed the open archive law. He was very clear, harsh, loudly opposed to those or advocated changes to the law that the Pahor government had submitted at that time. Then, of course, this people in the referendum were annulled and we came to a new law, which Mr Rovšek also advocated. Let me show you what anonymization is. That's anonymization. That's what researchers get today. This is the result of the work of the candidate for the Deputy Ombudsman. Yes! Madam Guardian, the names and surnames of the slaves below are the names and surnames of the people who killed. Whether this is the role of the Ombudsman or not, judge for yourself. But this gentleman was defending it. At the same time, this gentleman was the one who sent some excuses all the time to the National Assembly when we dealt with murders; not murders in 1945, not murders in 1950 or 1960, but murders in 1975 there until 1989. The Commission has dealt with these matters for petitions, and has always invited you. Always. You've never come and never come to me, sir. This gentleman here and there wrote an apology. Your office heard rumors that he had climbed over your head and therefore I expected you, of course, to say as soon as possible, "Just that his mandate has expired." No! No! You've come with a proposal for a new appointment. So when we spoke about killings in the spring — is there anything worse that could happen to a man than that someone took his life? In 1989, 1988 and back to 1945, if you want. We have dealt with cases of the latest, i.e. those cases – I am talking about Martinovic, I am talking about Montenegro and others. None of the human rights guards were present at this committee's meeting. This is outrageous to me! I'm sorry to have to tell you this, but I have to tell you this because my soul is telling me this. I don't know why we're dealing with everything else or dealing with everything else if you don't see that murder is the worst kind of human rights violation. Probably. I don't think there can be any worse. I will not talk about all other matters, including that we have dealt with Mr Maslesha and we will probably remain judges who have violated human rights. If the court, if the judge violates human rights and this is nothing for the Ombudsman, it's acceptable, then I apologize, we've known each other too long, but I've made a mistake, Madam Guardian, and I'm sorry I made a mistake. I won't be wrong here with Mr. Rovšk, I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u40	Mr Franz Breznik SDS has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Chairman. I can only continue there, as colleague Gorenak said, especially in the sense that international congresses were more important than the beating of human rights in Slovenia – we can say – recently. So the last murder we dealt with was the attempted murder of Nikola Štedula at the end of 1988, where three of them were planning this murder – today one judge of the district court and two were lawyers, one in Celje and one in Maribor. So much for information. And the victims walk and watch the people who planned the murders. Where is the dignity of these victims today?Oh, my God! So the Ombudsman should be the first person to come to the committee to ask all those on the committee whether we are joking or whether we are accusing anyone with any evidence; and the first one should literally press the prosecution and start trials against these people. I'm talking about crimes that never get old. Another thing that is. I used to talk about rationality. The Ombudsman has the opportunity to have two deputies or four; that is, to decide for himself. In these severe economic circumstances, this is an extremely poor indicator. This is not about any personal offense to me personally to any part of one, other or third, or even a fourth deputy, it is about showing. The guardian's argument was that someone worked well for 20 years. Today I said that we have a majority of public servants and bureaucrats in the National Assembly and that this is self-evident. Also these 412 workshops in Prevention in Lenart, which received the booklets – they also formed this institution, this company for 20 years or more. That's what they did, but that's not what they're supposed to do. In these severe crisis situations, therefore, we are filling all public administration institutions with maximum capacity. The Ombudsman or the Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman does not have a minimum wage of EUR 700, nor does he have a salary of EUR thousand, or EUR 500. We are talking about higher incomes, which may be in gross wages four times or five times the employee’s salary. Therefore, respectable colleagues and colleagues, there is no prioritise against these two candidates – in this case, when we are talking about another now. It is a matter of showing, at a symbolic level, that we are aware of the difficult situation, that we are thinking rationally, especially in the highest institutions, and that then, with these rational examples, we can also show our citizens and citizens that we are serious about some measures to increase Slovenia's competitiveness. I would also like to say that if I were to somehow assess the work of all three human rights defenders, I would still call on the Authority of Nussdorfer to evaluate with the best rating. If we somehow start to need some time here too, to understand what all rights are, and not to choose selectively – those human rights and fundamental freedoms that somehow correspond to our subjective state or to our political conviction. I agree with those colleagues and colleagues who say that the institution of the Ombudsman cannot be someone who is politically defined to have an extraordinary personality and that fundamental rights and freedoms are some universal values that we must all share. For this reason, and because of all the arguments listed above, as also discussed by my colleague Gorenak, I will vote against them. Against this, because I believe that we need to be more rational and, above all, in the future, let this be the start of some broader measures with us, with all the state institutions and then with the summit we go towards some foundation of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u43	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Guardian! The opinion on the Institute of the Ombudsman is different in public. Some believe that work is sufficient and that it should be even more extensive, some believe that it is unnecessary, and others actually point out that there is no longer an area where human rights are not violated. Today, of course, we have a proposal for deputies. Otherwise, I accept your proposal, because it is your right, in some way also the duty to put your fellow workers around you, with whom you think you will do the most of your work for which you have been elected. However, I must say that I do not agree with him, that I do not appreciate him and that he is in some way incomprehensible to me. And let me explain it to you. Mr Jernej Rovšek has been acting as deputy, we have heard today, for 20 years, since 1994. Its area is inter alia: constitutional rights, intolerance, correction of injustices, discrimination. Of course, as a citizen, I would expect that his voice in these areas will be the strongest and that there will be no dilemma as to the positions he will advocate in these cases. Oh, yeah! In the case of encouraging the hate speech of one of the media — almost a constant and not an exception to them — we could read about bone lovers, play on bones, and, of course, have witnessed the advocacy of genocide and the mocking of beatings. I'm talking about the case of the Hud Cave. The position of Mr Jernej Rovšk was: the border between weighing, between freedom of expression and other freedoms and rights can only be brought before the court and the Ombudsman, as a rule, to individual contributions. Okay! Is it always like that? It's not. A respected guardian and a respected all present! In another matter, Mr. Rovšek said, when one of the writers, the writers, first of all, published his personal opinion and position on the website, "It would be good to sanction such matters..." By the way, it was not in that topic of hate speech, but "such matters should be sanctioned because this would be a strong message in all other cases." Ladies and gentlemen, I find the double criteria unacceptable! At the very least, they are acceptable among those who should be most committed to respect for human rights. A few more words about the archives, which we've heard about today. Here, too, his role was quite active. It is not a problem that it is active, the problem is whether you are biased or using double standards. Let me say his statement: "The referendum on archives is estimated" – his assessment – "unnecessary because it is also necessary for the profession." Respectable colleagues — What profession? We know precisely and well that the profession in this case was very uneven. As a result of this and many other matters that I have actually run out of time and that are also found in your annual report, I do not think that Mr Rovšek is suitable for the Deputy Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u45	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues further substantiated these discussions and showed that the Institute of the Ombudsman is not functioning. Not only is it not working, it is actually moving away from those key themes. I don't know if mass killings or, say, the ordered killings of one state authority are not the subject of the Ombudsman's treatment, even though these topics have been dealt with in the National Assembly and also in public, then we probably see that the closure here by candidates for the Ombudsman is actually a statement that has no weight on the reality and no weight on the functioning of the one who reads it. If someone has sworn to protect human rights in accordance with the Constitution and laws, and then we find that this does not work, then all instruments should be activated to ensure: or in such a way as to ensure that the person who does not exercise it withdraws, resolves, or something else needs to be done. Now that we have the Ombudsman to have him and we are European or globally comparable, in my opinion it is completely irrelevant and unnecessary and it is the Ombudsman who is already by definition established to interfere with the most critical relations between the citizen, between the human being and his rights and institutions. Now, if the Ombudsman is selectively dedicated to certain things, others, although they are extremely severe, we can only ignore this as if it were a pioneer in the field of human rights protection. Only for the pyre. As was the case in the case of the previous reference, the previous mandate of the Commission to prevent corruption — purely and for the sake of money alone — to do harm to political groups, individuals. After it was discovered that there were major systematic violations of the law, as the Court of Auditors found, you wash your hands Pilateically and go and accuse others of it. I think that important steps must also be taken in this area. If the Ombudsman, as a prosecutor within the framework of the prosecution's organisation, could not penetrate the proposal to deal with such things, it would be easy to do so at the head of an institution called the Ombudsman. Easy. Mr Rovšek, as we have heard from the Ombudsman's presentation and also from the documentation, it is clear that there will now be a fifth or sixth term, 20 years, four times five, which means that it is essentially a kind of appointment for a permanent term. No changes, no remodeling of the approach. We find that it does not work, but it continues with a human resources force that is, in fact, untouchable. We are also dealing with a permanent mandate with the Ombudsman, although it is repeated from the mandate to the mandate, but when you add that up, it is a permanent mandate. There's no interruption in between, there's nothing. If you think that this will improve the functioning of the Ombudsman's Institute when the key themes are ignored, the people who do so continue with mandates is the barren hope. In short, I think that fundamental changes should be made to the reconstruction of institutions in this country, and also to the many who are in these functions, in accordance with the closure it makes here. Also, even if we did not do so, everyone should be self - critical enough to determine whether or not he is working in accordance with a prescribing order. If the guardian can't do it, his deputies, if the judges can't do it, then something in this country is really wrong. Given that these things are being carried on, this does not give much hope that anything will change in a short time, but guarantees that it will continue to go wrong for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mrs. Vlada Nussdorfer? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing Jernej Rovška as Deputy Ombudsman, and the mandate shall begin on 8 November 2014. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly appointed Jernej Rovška as the Deputy Ombudsman, so I ask him to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u47	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I congratulate the Deputy Ombudsman on his appointment and wish him a successful job! We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Nina Velkavra as a member of the State Audit Commission. The mandate shall begin on 25 December 2014. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Radio Television Programme Council of Slovenia on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17(6) of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Violeta Tomić, United Left Group, has the floor. [[She's not here.]] We conclude the presentation of the parliamentary groups. There are no rapporteurs and no members to be discussed. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for a member of the Radiotelevision Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Radio Television Act, Slovenia will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 and more. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 15. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Radio Television Programme Board of Slovenia on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. Ms Violeta Tomić, presentation of the position of the United Left Group of Ambassadors, takes place on the table. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u49	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Radiotelevision Slovenia is an institution that must act in the public interest to provide a wide range of quality content to meet the democratic, social and cultural needs of all people. Thus, its main task is defined by the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, the situation is far removed from the record. RTV Slovenia has become more national or, more precisely, a party and commercial than a public institution. There are two reasons for that in the grave. Firstly, the pressure of competition which forces the public media to compete with private ones, who only make their content for profit. And secondly, attempts to instrumentalize public broadcasting for narrow party purposes. The change of RTV legislation over the years has led to a breach of the autonomy of the public media, which is forced to subject itself to the interests of political parties. In this sense, the most harmful is the so-called Grims Act, which apparently tried to politically subdue public RTV. He thus settled negative selection, since independent experts do not want to find themselves on a bicycle of party interests. The RTV Programme Council and the RTV Supervisory Board often act as an inquisition and pursue journalistic content that is not in line with the views and performances of the right-wing political options, while at the same time trading votes at the table in the establishment of the administration, as evidenced clearly by the recent case of the selection of the Director-General. The situation is similar to that of state-owned companies that have been the prey of each coalition, and now privatisation is offered as a cure for poor governance. Therefore, the only solution for RTV is to democratise governance. The appointment to the Council and the RTV Supervisory Council should be transferred from the limits of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Government to those directly concerned by the operation of RTV Slovenia. These are representatives of the public and employees of RTV Slovenia. Therefore, the United Left will not propose its candidates for the RTV Programme and Supervisory Board. We even propose to suspend the current party mode of appointment of members and members of RTV bodies and the public media once again in the public interest. RTV Slovenia must primarily perform an information and educational function, instead of competing with commercial media to measure ratings. In addition to democratising public broadcasting, incentives must also be adopted for all forms of non-profit media that will act in the public interest and will not be subordinated to the interests of political parties and not to the endless and exclusive pursuit of profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much. There are no applications for discussion. I conclude the discussion and move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr Vesna Laban as a member of the Radio Television Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 21. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Next presentation of the positions of Members Please? [[…]] So there's no proposal for an explanation. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Slovenia a member of the Radio Television Supervisory Board. Alexander the Iglisar. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 21. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Committee on Justice, the Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth and the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and the appointment of the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the President and Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The proposal for a decision is based on the proposals of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors and the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia of 25. 9th and 30th. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. We finished the presentations – so they weren't there. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Committee on Justice, the Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth and the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the President and Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. We're voting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u51	I don't know, the vice president, I apologize. We need to appoint the President of the Justice Committee, the President of the Justice Committee, because you have not read it like that, so I am interested that there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u52	I read: "We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Committee on Justice......"
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u53	I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-09-30-SDZ7-Izredna-04.ana.u54	Let me conclude the decision "... of the Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth and Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Chair and the Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons." We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] This concludes this point. [[…]] Excuse me. I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the fourth extraordinary session of the National Assembly.
