ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Barbara Zgeiner, mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Janja Naast, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Tina Komel, Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Branko Ficko, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Dr László Göncz, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Franz Bogovic, Mr Branko Kurnjek by 16:00 and Mr Jožef Kavticnik. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 11th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 9 May 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Janja Klasinc, proposes to withdraw from the agenda of the 25th meeting of the National Assembly 14. Point, this is the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Single Patent Court Agreement, EPA 1968-VI. You received the proposal by letter 16. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I ask if Mrs Janja Klasinc wishes to present a motion for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u2	I will be very briefly, Mr President. It's about [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u3	For the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, Madam President of the Government with ministers and ministers! Very briefly. We are proposing to the Committee, not just me personally, but the entire Committee on Foreign Policy has agreed to withdraw this point for a simple reason, because the Government has not fully explained the transfer of powers. This could be contrary to the Constitution which restricts this transposition, which is why we have decided that it is necessary to know whether it is a constitutional issue and then, of course, the National Assembly and the Foreign Policy Committee should vote by a two-thirds majority, but if it is a simple transfer that does not affect the Constitution, we could vote by a simple majority. Since we are counting on the Government to explain this briefly, we will consider this at the 1st urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and then the State Assembly will be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Does the government want a word about this withdrawal? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. I conclude the debate on the withdrawal proposal. We're moving on to decision-making. Before we decide, I ask you to verify the operation of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the 14th item from the agenda. Can we vote? Yeah. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. Before we move to a full vote on the agenda, I inform you that the President of the Commission for the Control of the Information and Security Services is Dragutin Mate 15. 5. 2014 proposed to the assembly that the agenda25. extend the session by the point of the 2013 Report on the work of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal for enlargement is not in accordance with the sixth and seventh paragraphs of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and will therefore not be discussed or voted on by the National Assembly. I have not received any other proposals to extend the agenda. That is why we are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with the adoption of the amendment or withdrawal recently adopted. Can we decide on the agenda? We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present. Given that we have not been voted enough, I repeat the vote. We're voting next time on the agenda. 43 present. This time, too, I do not have enough votes for Members and Members, so I give a 10-minute recess until the third vote. We'll pick it up at 12.17.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u6	I am re-voting the proposal for a full agenda. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 25th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 47 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraphs 245 and 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the President of the Government to the opposition and to the Member of the ruling coalition's question. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall reply to the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting with the reply of the President of the Government or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the Magi apologized for today. Mr Alenka Bratušek in the capacity of President of the Government, who conducts the current business and functions as Minister of Health, who carries out the current business, from 1 p.m. to 1 p.m. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who carries out current business, Dr Jernej Pikalo, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, who carries out ongoing business from 16:00 onward, Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister for Internal Affairs, who conducts ongoing business, and Method of Dragonja, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, who conducts ongoing business. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government, who conducts ongoing business, mag. Alenka Bratusek. The questions will be asked by Jasmina Opec, the first question, the following by Ludmila Novak, then by Roman Tomc and then by Matevž Frangež. Mrs. Jasmina Opec, you have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you so much for your words and welcome everyone together! A few days ago, information was sent to the public by the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Sam Omerzel, on the lack of funds in the budget for the purpose of subsidising the public transport of students and students. As a result, according to the Minister of Bus Subsidy, subsidies for rail transport were to be abolished in May and in June. At the same time, Minister Omerzel said that he had a meeting with you, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, and with a finance minister who failed to agree on where you would get the money you needed. Then you responded to his statement, namely, that Minister Omerzel was moving and that he did not know his tasks, that the Minister was setting the budget of his department and that if the money was running out, that was due to his irresponsible work. On Friday, the Minister held a meeting with representatives of the Student Organisation. That's when he told them there was still no money. Because of the lack of money, individual students and students will also have to pay up to EUR 100 per month more for transport. By abolishing these subsidies, many families will be affected, especially those whose children do not go to school in the place where they live. And even more so will be affected those families that have two, three or more schooling children or children who are studying. As Prime Minister, you have repeatedly stressed that young people are your government's priorities, their good present and even better future. Of course, the responsibility of Minister Omerzel for this situation exists. So as President of the Government, you are responsible that the budget is in line with the legal obligations that already exist, in my opinion, especially in those areas which are still extremely sensitive, which is certainly the area of children and youth. Dear President of the Government, given the situation that has taken place, I ask you: How will you take action to ensure that students and students are not harmed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, please, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Since you've summed things up so well about this, I don't need to repeat these things and the responsibilities of a minister who certainly exists. But I'm going to start by saying that no one will, and he won't have to pay for transports or tickets. In the course of today's day, funds will be made available by the end of June and within 14 days we will also find a solution to the problems by the end of the year. However, the fact is that the Ministry's financial plan consists of and is the responsibility of the Minister covering this area, and the fact is that it is certainly necessary to cover the legal obligations first and then everything else. But, as I said, the problem is to find out who didn't do their job is not solved, but as I said, no one will have to pay for the tickets, no subsidies will be abolished. During this day, the problem will be resolved by the end of June and in the shortest possible time, no later than fourteen days, even by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you. Jasmina Opec has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Since we often hear that there is no money, the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government asks you: Where exactly will you get this money or where will you take it? And according to your words in Minister Sam Omerzel's interpretation, when you said that the minister didn't put the problems under his rug as his predecessors, he was dealing with them, I ask you: How, or if, would you take action against a minister who was interpelled a few months ago, as has already been said, and who were then zealously defending him if you criticized his work last week in your statements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u13	I'll be very quick. Where transfers will be provided, we can inform you in detail. Item, account, anything you want. After all, the minister did not sweep the problem under the carpet. The only mistake was not saving him for a joint table, but through the public. I don't think such behaviour within the government is most appropriate. However, how can I act against a minister who is already doing business only in one way or another, and I believe that you know, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you. Jasmina Opec has a request for a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Every government is like an orchestra. He has individual musicians, ministers who have to play their part perfectly. And each government has its conductor, the president, or the president of the government, who has to direct these musicians, ministers, so that they play their role best to get a tune in the audience, which is a positive feeling in the citizens. Shortly after your government performed, we saw that it was a announced orchestra, where everyone played his notes, where there were no goals, where there was no shared vision, where the conductor did not control the musicians, because he failed to compose a flower that would play in the sonic. This also shows your public accusation of each other in the media we witnessed last week, and therefore, according to you, the apparently unnecessary harassment of students, students and everyone else in this country. However, I do not think it is right for such matters to be resolved in public, especially in sensitive areas such as children and youth. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure on your answer to my question, I request a general discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. The next question to the Prime Minister will be raised by Mrs Ludmila Novak, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u17	Dear Mr President, Madam President of the Government, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The appointment of officials in the institutions of the European Union is regulated to a certain extent by rules at the level of the European Union itself or within an institution. However, certain procedures concerning the nomination or appointment of candidates for officials may also be carried out autonomously by the countries from which they come. This may result in differences between individual countries as regards the State authorities participating in those procedures. Governments already have the most power on the basis of this. Other authorities, particularly parliaments and presidents of the countries, can also play a role. Madam President, I'd like to ask you: Are you going to propose to the European Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia, or are you prepared to accept the proposal to propose to the Commissioner or Commissioner an elected Member to the European Parliament from the list that will receive the highest votes in this year's elections to the European Parliament? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. In Slovenia, we have a leaky process of appointing a Slovenian member or a member of the new European Commission. Personally, I do not see the need to follow established practice this time as well. This means that the candidate for a member of the European Commission, on a proposal from the President of the Government, is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course taking into account Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union, which states that the members of the European Commission must be nationals of the Member State and elected on the basis of the general competence and commitment for Europe. The government will also take due note of its decision to the National Assembly. It must be said that this practice is practiced by a large majority of the Member States of the European Union. Given that the appointment of a member of the European Commission with the Treaty of Lisbon remains the responsibility of each Member State, there is no reason for the latter to adapt to the outcome of the elections to the European Parliament. It must be said, however, that all elected Members and Members will have an absolute impact on this because they will do what they have to do by voting in the European Parliament. In particular, I would like to point out that the election to the European Parliament is not a condition for the appointment of a candidate or candidate. In particular, I would like to point out that, until now, formally, no member has actually spoken about the candidate, three have informally indicated it, and, as far as it is known, none of these three are, therefore, not candidates for a MEP in the European Parliament. It is absolutely necessary to reach an agreement first on the new President of the European Commission, which, in accordance with Article 17, paragraph 7, of the Treaty on European Union, the European Council is expected to reach an agreement at the end of June. The new composition of the European Parliament is expected to vote on the proposal in the middle of July. And the discussions on both appointments are, of course, already under way. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you. Mrs Novak has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u21	Madam President, you have not answered my question: Are you going to propose yourself to this function, or do you think it is credible that the government, the current government or the current government, should propose a candidate for the highest position in the European institution? Can the party you come from, which member you have been so far, which has also caused the breakdown of the government and the political crisis legitimately propose a candidate for Commissioner of its kind? We also believe in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – that there is a great deal of democracy if people can make a proposal for such a function. As you know, under the Treaty of Lisbon, the political group that will receive the most MEPs will also make its proposal for the President of the European Commission. According to this logic, even in Slovenia, especially at the time of the government's ongoing operations, we should respect the results of the European elections and, on the basis of this, also choose a candidate for the European Commissioner, of course, there is no condition that a Member should be elected. But it certainly shows how people think about who they support to operate in European institutions. I'm asking you: Why did you not propose amendments to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union and determine the new procedure for appointing a candidate as a member of the European Commission from the Republic of Slovenia in the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much again, honourable Member. In fact, I am very disappointed that we are not talking about which area the Commissioner or Commissioner proposed by Slovenia would cover, but we are talking, and it is only about who will propose this person to be the European Commissioner. I think we can worry about that. It would be far more appropriate and much smarter to talk about the area, and it would be related to people who are competent to cover these areas. In fact, this shows that at the moment it is more than a serious proposal, for a pre-election campaign and a pre-election campaign of New Slovenia together with the SLS. I hope that the committee in this National Assembly will talk about how you will focus more on what we, as Slovenia, want to cover in the European Commission and what we can do best to help our country. Alenka Bratušek is still the Prime Minister of the Government. As far as foreign policy is concerned, including the European Union, I am currently dealing with other things. Today, specifically, how our country can still help neighbouring countries affected by a major natural disaster is flooding. I am sincerely pleased that we have received a great deal of thanks from all three ambassadors for what we have done as soon as possible as the country has done. My tasks at this time in the field of foreign policy are such, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you. Mrs Novak has a request to hold a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u25	Yes, I request a discussion under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Otherwise, your findings are wrong. The President of the European Commission shall determine which area the Commissioner will cover, not the Member State itself. Experience has shown that the same Commissioner covers several different areas. Our Commissioner, Janez Potočnik, also covered two different areas. Therefore, this finding is not substantiated. And there are eight candidates on the lists for the European elections. So there's a lot of options that a candidate would suggest, and these candidates are also competent, they can perform different functions. As I have said, however, the current government cannot legitimately and competently propose the right candidate for the highest European function.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. The third question to the Prime Minister will be raised by Mrs Romana Tomc, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the Government, I would like to ask you a question about the appointment in the previous term or in the previous year. On this issue, I was particularly encouraged by the Government's proposal that it sent to the National Assembly, a proposal for amendments to the Law on the implementation of the budget, where it proposes in an indirect way an additional debt. Last year, the esteemed President of the Government, we reached the extreme level of our debt in gross domestic product. At the end of 2014, our debt is expected to amount to 80 % or even more than 80 % of gross domestic product. This means, for respected colleagues, viewers and viewers who are watching us, about 15 000 euros per inhabitant of Slovenia. We were led to this state by extreme debt. Just last year, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, you have us in charge of 7 billion 100. For the implementation of the 2014 budget, it would be sufficient for you to be in debt for 3 billion and a half, and you are in debt for 4 billion 600. And, as the Minister of Finance himself has announced, it is not necessary to end this debt for this year, although the Bank of Slovenia notes in its report that this is actually the end of our debt for this year. Let me remind you of something else that Eurostat has published. Eurostat says that last year, in all euro area countries, the deficit in the state sector decreased and was on average 3%, while in Slovenia the deficit was 14.7% of gross domestic product, mostly in Europe. Despite the fact that bank resolution is also covered, even if we reduce this deficit or debt by 10 percentage points, we get to an enviable high level. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: How much precisely have you entrusted us directly and indirectly during the duration of your mandate and what else do you intend to do in this area in the light of the proposal you have sent to the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, in particular, thank you for allowing me and the citizens and citizens to explain to you what the debt they have incurred has been spent. In last year and this year, the state has jointly committed EUR 11.9 billion. Of this, about €3 billion was spent on the rehabilitation of banks, and I believe the honourable Member that you well know when this debt came about. The largest part of this occurred between 2006 and 2007, when the Slovenian government was not led by Alenka Bratušek, but was the largest coalition party of SDS with Janez Janša. So you're going to have to take these 3 billion on your back in one way or another. Furthermore, of these 11.9 billion 5.1 billion is earmarked for the repayment of major loans from previous years. Some 2 billion interest on past years’ loans must be added to this, so it will also be very difficult to hang these 7.1 billion on the government of Alenka Bratušek. However, I hope you agree that this needs to be settled unless you have any other proposal and we stop paying off debts. I believe you know what that means. The rehabilitation of the banks, a respected Member, was, in fact, drawn and carried out along the path you started and planned. And I believe in this part of the debt would be the same. We've spent 10.1 billion on these two things together. 500 million euros, so much in last year's year, we have indeed further indebteded the country, so that Slovenia is still a social state to preserve rights at least in these difficult times where they have been. But here I believe that we have different views and that your government would intervene significantly differently and significantly more radically in the social state. I've already said it, and I'm saying it again. The government of Alenka Bratusek of this country will not make another republic as you have some objective. And when we take that down, I'm going to tell you that we're going to leave the new government in an account of about 1.5 billion, so that as soon as it does, we don't have to start looking for financial resources in the markets. But there's something else I'd like to point out. This year, according to 2014 the average interest rate on the securities in question was 3,21 %, if we add up all the different yields. Your government is still the most expensive government in our country – 5.5%. 3.21%, honourable Member, is about as much as getting loans in the programme that you wanted our country to be a three-way, let it be a two-way, let it be a special programme for banks. Such interest rates are in these aid schemes, although one of your customers is misleading the Slovenian public to obtain a loan at one percent interest rate in the context of these aids, which is, of course, a major non-reality. So from 11.9 billion debt goes to 10.1 billion at the expense of the past, you can also say past sins for which I do not take any responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you. Mrs Romana Tomc has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Not that I'd want to, but there were so many words about the past, dear Mrs. Bratusek. If you were a little less involved with the government of Janez Janša and a little bit more with economic policy, you probably wouldn't be the Prime Minister of the current business. Otherwise, here's the thing. Our debt goes up. That's a fact. And debt alone and public debt, we both know, is not a problem in itself. However, the problem is and will arise if, on the other hand, someone fails to implement those necessary measures that are necessary in our country. And, of course, it bothers that you have not done any structural reform on the other hand, that you have done nothing in health care, that you have done nothing in the rationalisation and reorganisation of the public sector and elsewhere. And, of course, it also disturbs the fact that, with your statements and constant repetition and deception, as regards interest and debt prices, you are causing us not to believe you anymore. It's been a while. This is also confirmed by questions raised by my colleagues or colleague Opec. My second part of the question relates to this, esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, how should we believe you if, at the time of the adoption of the budget, you have assured us that this is a sustainable, stable and realistic budget, and then at least 200 million of the property tax is now missing in this budget. And here we see 115 million euros that Minister Omerzel has forgotten to plan. Tell me exactly, and I want an answer to a question asked by my colleague Opec. Where are you going to take 200 million and 115 million if we don't mention anything else?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you. I myself would be much more pleased if we were dealing with the future and not with the past, a respected Member. But over and over again, you're making me say that our government had to cover for a huge mistake of the past. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. But we did it. However, as far as economic policy is concerned, it is a shame that I do not have the graphs I have shown you the last time I have shown you, I will gladly send them to you by email, showing that not only are the results significantly better for last year, as predicted by virtually all the institutions dealing with the forecasts, but also all the institutions have changed the forecast for our country from negative to positive. And that doesn't happen on its own. Economic activity is increasing, consumption is increasing, investment is increasing and most importantly, so I mention interest rates over and over again, financial markets believe us, the international public believes us. I am sure that all that appears positive will soon start to feel the same and people will believe that the things we have done have been done for the good of the country and for the well-being of citizens and citizens. However, I certainly believe that we do not agree on one thing, this is about the consolidation of public finances that you, as I said before, would lead in a significantly more brutal and painful way. And here's the difference between you and us, luckily.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you. Mrs Romana Tomc will make a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u35	I would like to propose that the response of the President of the Government be discussed. I think that these are important things that our citizens and citizens have felt in their own pockets in the form of lowering their standards, raising taxes. They probably want to know what their money was for and where it was meant to be. Let me remind you, Madam President, that when we spent money on bank recovery, you claimed that you would make everything transparent, and tell me what was going on at Probank and Factor Bank, and tell me what was going to happen to Bank Celje, Gorenje Banka, Banka. That's all we want to hear from you here, and you won't give us any answers. This was not part of my question, but you yourself mentioned what structural reforms, respected Prime Minister of the Government, you did. You owe us, as I said, and you find out for yourself, enormously large. Now I wonder, all of us, what the next government will do to you, which will face the fact that a new provision at European Union level, which provides for a reduction of 5% per year for countries with public debt above 60%. Do you know what drastic intervention this will have on people’s lives or standards? I think these are extremely important questions. We're working against the break-in. When it comes on 1 January 2015, honourable President, nothing will help us to have a billion in the account, because you will be spending that billion by then, but we will face the problem of having to immediately reduce our spending, and this will have a significant impact on people's standards. Therefore, Madam President, it is very wrong that you have not made the necessary structural reforms in addition to incurring us. These are questions that need to be discussed and that need to be answered, so I want this to be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. We turn to the fourth question to the Prime Minister of the Government, which will be put by Mr Matevž Frangež, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u37	The distinguished President, the global financial and, as a result, the painful economic and social crisis has caused high speculativeness and gambling of the financial sector – the trend towards exponential profits made possible in the world of weak regulation of the financial sector and the continued and reckless liberalisation of the financial sector. The estimates show that Member States in the European Union have earmarked €4 thousand 600 billion to the financial sector in the face of the crisis so far. Citizens and citizens, taxpayers, have contributed not only to the recovery of the financial sector through the rehabilitation of banks but also indirectly, through high unemployment, the reduction of basic income and the decommissioning of the social system. Social Democrats in alliance with European Socialists have been demanding the introduction of a financial transaction tax for years to achieve that the financial sector will also assume part of the burden of this crisis, so that countries are able to restore society, restore economic growth and a higher level of employment, new jobs. Slovenia has been an ally of the introduction of a financial transaction tax since the beginning of these discussions. That is why, Madam President, I ask you: How is it possible that the Minister of Finance, at a meeting of the Economic Affairs Council, represented an allegedly different position from those already adopted as the views of the Republic of Slovenia, also contained in the declaration on the guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia for working in the European institutions? It is worth noting that people in the pursuit of justice demand that the burdens of this crisis be justly distributed and that we will contribute to the rehabilitation and restoration of society by all in our best efforts. This must apply, Madam President, also to the financial sector. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you, Your Honor. Let me start by saying, and now I will also read the position that the Minister of Finance has not violated or spoken differently from the point of view, so allow me to read this position. Slovenia supports the reasons for the introduction of the financial transaction tax and the objectives resulting from the proposal for a directive on the implementation of enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transactions tax. Slovenia supports the introduction of a tax on financial transactions with a broad tax base and a low tax rate, while endeavouring to establish a tax system that will be as less administratively burdensome as possible for taxpayers and easy to collect. Wide tax base, low level and simplicity. At the same time, the Republic of Slovenia expresses its concerns about the usefulness of introducing a financial transaction tax, as no progress has been made in introducing a level 11 tax in the enhanced cooperation of the participating Member States, which will make it difficult to achieve the objectives of the proposal for a directive and the estimated low financial effects for the Republic of Slovenia, which will barely exceed the costs of introducing that tax. The latest proposals, which is why I have highlighted the broad tax base, are going in the opposite direction, and according to estimates by the Tax Administration and the financial institutions, some EUR 3 million should be collected from this title and EUR 2 million should be the cost of introducing this tax. This is also happening within the countries that we have supported, in a way that we as a country find more difficult to support than what was said at the outset. It should be said, however, that in Slovenia at this time we have both a tax on the balance sheet sum of banks and a tax on financial transactions, and these two together have a significantly greater impact than a very narrow tax base and a high administrative cost could have at this first stage. Certainly, the matter is not yet concluded within the European Union. And once again, the Minister of Finance, in view of what I have read, has absolutely nothing to do with the position taken in the National Assembly or in the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u41	Dear Madam President! We are also dissatisfied with the long-standing process of introducing this tax. One reason is the indecisive and high interest of the financial sector in avoiding this tax burden. If they're holding your data, then I don't understand how it's possible that your government, in fact, in two different periods of time, radically miscalculated the proceeds of that tax. The Slovenian Government document of 9 May 2013 shows that the financial recovery of this tax is EUR 10 million for Slovenia and not EUR 3 million. Where did such a radical reduction of the proceeds of this tax come from? However, if the problem is in its economic sense, Madam President-respected, it would be worth considering that, in line with the position you cited, this is a broad tax base and low tax rates, but they are revising rates. I do not understand how it is possible, as planned by the directive, that financial instruments are taxed at a rate of 0.1% tax rate and derivatives at a rate of 0.01%. In doing so, let me remind you that the financial crisis has actually led to the trade in derivatives in which large investment banks have actually packed various financial products and credit rating agencies have irresponsibly assessed them according to the highest ratings. The consideration of the introduction of a financial transaction tax must follow the greater responsibility of the financial sector, in particular by setting tax rates by dividing the financial sector into these burdens and by allowing the company to contribute to the recovery of the company in a broader sense; and [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u43	I'll be very short. Of course, rates are coordinated within the European Union and the tax base is equally coordinated. I said earlier that, therefore, Slovenia's idea that new ideas and new proposals are significantly different from what was essentially intended. The financial assessment of the collection shall be altered according to how much is happening on the market with securities and derivatives. And the difference, I didn't calculate it myself, but I guess that's the difference between a 15% drop in business or securities and a 75% drop in turnover with derivatives. But even if we are talking about 10 million, let me say again that at this point we are collecting a tax on financial services annually about 40 million euros and a tax on balance-sheet sums of about 20 million euros. It is said that, at this point, significantly more than the amended tax on financial transactions would result in a new one.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you. We have thus concluded with the questions raised by the President of the Government and thank her for the answers given. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 24th meeting of the assembly. The President of the Government, acting as Minister of Health, who conducts ongoing business, mag. Alenka Bratušek would answer if this question could be asked by 1:00. From 13:00 on, she is excused for her obligations abroad. The answer should be to Mrs Sonja Ramšak's question on improving the situation in the field of child heart surgery. I ask, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, do you insist on an oral response? Please, Mrs Ramshak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I must say, given all that is happening in Slovenian medicine, it seems irresponsible to me that the President of the Government has not taken a few minutes to answer my oral question. Because I believe that I will not be at the next meeting, I request a written answer to my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you. The next question to be answered by the Magi. Alenka Bratušek is the question of Mark Pavlisič regarding the use of cannabis for medical purposes. I ask Mr Pavlišič if he insists on an oral answer. He is not in the Chamber right now, so in this case we will inform the President of the Government that the answers are within 30 days or Mr Pavlišič is coming to the hall. I'm asking if you insist on an oral answer to your question. You have the floor, Mr. Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you for waiting. I will also be satisfied with the written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u48	Okay, so it's a written answer in 30 days. I next ask Mrs Janjo Nazast, who has asked a question about the protection of health workers against ionising radiation, whether she insists on an oral question. She's not in the hall right now. So here too will be written answers. Mrs Janja Naast also raised a question regarding the rehabilitation of the water supply at the Oncology Institute in Ljubljana. A written answer will also be given here. We are moving on to questions that will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Samo Omerzel. He will answer Mr Janez Ribič's question regarding the suspension of investments by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. Mr Omerzel, you have the floor to answer Mr Janez Ribič's question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u49	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question raised. When we talk about investments, it is important, above all, that we separate the part of investments co-financed by European funds, and I must say here that I am pleased and happy that these investments are being carried forward both on state roads and on rail infrastructure. This represents a very important part of the investment, since, practically during this period, the only funds seriously secured are those co-financed or provided on projects co-financed by European funds. When we talk about investments on state roads, and this is probably the part you have been aiming at, i.e. investment and stopping investments on state roads, we are talking about work financed from an integrated budget, and in fact here, if we look at the rankings of funds available over the past years, let's say in 2013, we had €140 million for the needs of the normal functioning of the Roads Directorate, this year, if we deduct funds, i.e. European funds, there are still poor €600 million in the Roads Directorate provided by the Integrated Budget, which in itself speaks of the extent to which we can practically make investments. In fact, when we talk about serious investments, there are no such assets, we have some investments that are in investment maintenance, especially a very important part for two bridges, for two bridge facilities, which we have dedicated to immediately due to the emergency situation for bridge facilities that have a daily base of 13,000 vehicles a day. However, as far as other investment funds are concerned, we do not have them in the State Roads Directorate. And this is also part of the problem that is so acute in these days and the lack of funds at the IZIP, which we hope to find within the Government enough courage and understanding to ensure that we also provide these funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr Ribič has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! I must say that at my previous meeting of the National Assembly, I have asked a question from the Member States mainly because I am concerned that we have destroyed many motorways, as well as some local roads, and we are not investing in this. We, as the Slovenian People's Party's Group, have also mentioned or proposed, when adopting the budget, that the Ministry of Infrastructure itself should also take care of this part of the funds and go to the reconstruction of these roads. We have also heard today that large amounts of loans for the rehabilitation of banks that have been emptied by fraudsters instead of putting them in infrastructure, because with infrastructure rehabilitation they would also allow for some more normal conditions for the economy. We have also heard that there are many contracts signed with contractors, tripartites, municipalities, ministries and contractors. In this case, I am interested, it has been said that these contracts are being moved for six months and that this construction will then continue: In what way will you be able to provide the means to build or rebuild such contracts, since otherwise operators will have to pay certain penalties, which are certainly mentioned in the contracts? I want to know: What will you do in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr Omerzel has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much to the Member for this additional explanation. Above all, I am pleased that I also share my views on investment in infrastructure. I must say that this year I met with practically most of the infrastructure ministers within the European Union, and all the rest of them, including the Minister of Economy with whom I was in the informal debates at our meetings, have assured me that the practice from their countries, what is crucial and extremely important for economic growth and development, is investment in infrastructure – the basis on which we can then expect economic growth. It must be understood that order always goes in this direction, that infrastructure must first be taken care of, invest in infrastructure, enable the environment to develop the economy and only then can we expect serious economic growth and thus, as infrastructure, support the development of the economy. This also makes it clear to me personally after this year of ministry that in reality more resources should be allocated to development and investment in infrastructure. And when we're specifically talking about state roads, highways and railways, that's definitely the way it is. On the highways, I must say that Slovenian highways are in good condition. This infrastructure has been built, and I hope to say that it serves the needs of the economy satisfactorily. Where we actually have to do a lot more, investment in rail infrastructure, which is very important in supporting economic development, as well as in state roads, is particularly important. State roads are also a very important part of infrastructure, which we have seen this year, not least in the acorn and road closures, how this has crippled the economy and the flow of life in our country. And it is true, Mr Member, that you are saying that we have quite a few investment projects in progress for which we have actually run out of money. I still believe that within this government, although we will find sufficient wisdom in the conduct of ongoing business, we will be able to provide these resources and also to provide these projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr Ribič has a request for a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you. I thank you for this part of the answer, but the answer I wanted to hear, which I would also like to hear from a number of Slovenian mayors, I did not hear: What about signed contracts with deadlines, when should work be started, by when should it be completed and so on? What will happen to those with whom the contracts are signed, how can you justify this, or will you solve this problem? That is why I would like to hold a debate in the National Assembly. It's such a hot, problematic area that I don't think is even political, but we're in some kind of trouble, we're in some kind of corner. We have heard that some resources in the state budget will remain for the new government, I don't know, a billion 400 or so, so I don't think we would be working on any new problems and re-irring some things under these contracts, but we would be talking about these things here too. Here we should also discuss those parts of the road or the construction of highways that are somehow under way and have not yet begun. I mean Ptuj-Macelj, this is part of a freeway, which is very important for tourism and also very important for a European country, which Slovenia is, with the neighbouring country of Croatia. Here, too, I have a feeling that work is somehow standing, and these things should also be discussed in the National Assembly. I know that the Minister cannot answer me now, so I would suggest that such a debate be held in the National Assembly, under an appropriate article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. Minister Omerzel will also answer Tomaž Lisca's question regarding the rehabilitation of bridge facilities on state roads. Mr. Omerzel, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u57	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. To a large extent, this answer is also very much linked to the contents of the previous question. It is important to point out in particular that we have over 6,000 km of state roads in Slovenia. Currently, we have 15 bridge facilities with traffic restrictions. These are the objects where there is actually a limit in at least one direction, and most of them in the loading of the bridge object itself. In view of the resources available and the problem that actually appeared in December 2013, we immediately moved on to solving two bridge facilities. These are two objects, Prestránek and Sodska. We set the criteria primarily according to the principle or burden of the object itself. In the case of these two facilities, we are talking about the number of vehicles over 13,000 in relation to the bridge facility and the appropriate loading of this local infrastructure. As regards other bridge facilities where recovery is also needed, it should be stressed that these facilities are on average over 50 years of age, which means that this infrastructure needs serious investment maintenance in any case, if not even replacement of the facility itself. I have to say that for at least the last 15 years, it's been known that they've been in poor shape for the last six years, and it would certainly be necessary to react sooner. However, despite the fact that this information is so much older, it is certainly not an excuse to fail. However, it is a fact that we currently do not have the resources available for the rehabilitation of these facilities at the Ministry. As far as the profession is concerned, complete documentation is available, and all necessary projects are ready to take place. Again, I must point out that only material and a proposal to the extent that additional funds are needed to regulate these bridge facilities has been forwarded to the government, but the resources themselves need to be provided within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Infrastructure only within the redistribution of its budget is certainly not capable or lacked the resources to be allocated to these facilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Lisec has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you, President. Minister, the other ministers! Dear Minister, I have already asked you in January about the financial and time-consuming aspects of the regulation of bridge facilities. My question was how the recovery was going. And today, I got the answer that two of them are going on, and the rest of them are open. Dear Minister, when I read your response from the January session, how you are aware of the seriousness of the situation, how you will do so appropriately. One is words, the other is acts. You said in three months you'd get the money, you'd make plans, and in six months, you'd do it all. You have also promised the mayors, the local communities that we are not yet talking further about the security and economic aspect of this problem. Dear Minister, please tell me there is no money, despite the fact that, in the 2014 and 2015 budget, the members of the coalition and the opposition unanimously concluded that the ministry was looking for 50 additional million inside the government, which was the first time you were put on the table by a respected minister. And now they put you on your shoes the second time. Or you're all alone on your own, but you and the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government. One of you has not done his job and therefore suffers the security of citizens, the economy and the local community. These flyers of yours about how you're going to solve things in absolute priority and seriousness, they can't stand any real situation. I have a feeling that you are lucky that you are at least in a lere when it comes to actual problems, in addition to the feeling that you are still in the full-time workforce in your ministry, not even in my opinion are aware of the seriousness of the situation or are sweeping it under the rug and leaving it to the new unfortunate Minister of Infrastructure, who will also have to solve your work by having to roll up his sleeve twice and be more convincing than you to find these funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr Omerzel has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Member, I thank you for this debate. It is true, as you state, that the parent committee, the Infrastructure Committee and the budget area for 2014 have instructed the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to seek these funds. Just what you refer to as history or heritage to those who come after me is exactly what I don't want to afford. I want to, even though the government is on the move to clean up after us and not leave what we have inherited ourselves, that the minister who comes after me will not deal with the issue that I am dealing with today. All my activities have been directed in this direction lately. I want to leave behind a clear path, and I want that minister who comes after me to face these financial problems that we are currently facing in our ministry not to face and that, at the same time, the funds we are talking about will be provided for, and even if the minister who comes after me will be able to do so, that he will have the resources he has and will be able to carry out these projects. Please also understand that without funds at the Ministry of Infrastructure of these bridge facilities and everything connected with state roads and all the rest of the problem, we simply cannot solve without funds. Despite all the words spoken, I still hope in the public that we will find a solution in the circle that you are referring to, namely, the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Infrastructure and Space to find the means that we will then be able to carry out all these projects. It is true, as you note, that what is crucial and important is that we provide funds to the extent that security on national roads is ensured that it is not compromised. The images that have been rounded up in the media lately, you've probably seen for yourself the state of state roads, what else the situation with the ventricles has brought us. I still hope that these funds will be found in this government's departure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Lisec has a request to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you. According to everything that's been said since January and today, there are promises, there are words, there's actions, there's no respectable minister. You said yourself you'd clean up all the open stuff. Maybe in words, but not in actions. If you didn't know twice to convince the Minister of Finance, and especially the President of the Government, to open a scrotum for you to see for yourself what you can do, believe me, if you don't believe in yourself or your co-workers that this money is not going to happen. The matter will go to the next government, whatever it may be, and then probably the same MPs of the coalition, who are silent today, will be filled with wisdom as to how matters need to be resolved. There are three key moments. One is an economic aspect that suffers from the lack of recovery. More. The list of critical bridges is even longer. Someone's gonna have to roll up their sleeves and do their job. Dear Minister, you were obviously not competent enough within the government, or you could have stepped down, or be convincing enough in your performances, not in front of the public, but in front of your colleagues within the government to provide, according to grave estimates, EUR 30 to 40 million for the rehabilitation of bridge facilities. Because you can't take care of it or because your colleagues in the government can't handle it, they're suffering from the economy. Not to mention the safety or traffic aspect, which is a very important factor in making decisions, to whom and to where to allocate funds. The honourable Minister, from where I come from, are two such bridge facilities, and I must say, not only did you boast, but the mayor also boasted that almost everything has been arranged with the Ministry, and we are just waiting for the happy moments when you take pictures and say things will be done, and then, of course, you will take another picture when things are done. But the performance was only on a verbal level, and in fact nothing was done. Therefore, Mr President and honourable colleagues, I propose that this issue be discussed at the next meeting, because when we talk about local communities, the transport security system and the economy, these issues raise a problem, there is a reason for one in-depth debate within the National Assembly, if it has not already been done within the Government, more than enough. I request or propose that the debate be held at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. The current Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cuffer, will answer Mr Jožef Horvat's question about opening new jobs by creating a more attractive business environment for foreign investors. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much for that question. I might begin by actually creating and managing an economic policy relating to foreign investment and the opening of new jobs mainly concerns the MGRT and the minister responsible for this matter. Nevertheless, you might say two, three words on the subject. If we look at the main limiting factor for economic growth and for the creation of new jobs or, if we look at it more from a defence perspective, preventing job closures, it would actually create conditions for the normal financing of businesses and thus create conditions for businesses to be in debt at comparable rates, as in the European Union. I think that these conditions are somehow established, and this is actually the first element that was important that we can contribute to the number of jobs. Another important step is actually the maintenance of businesses, which is also a process at the moment. And the third element to come is the opening up of new jobs with foreign investments, both in terms of privatisation and in terms of greenfield investments. This I think will be the next development impulse, which is very important for Slovenia to happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister Dr. Chufer, other ministers present! I have addressed you, Mr Minister, mainly for this reason, because I see you in this position of Minister of Finance as the most important custodian of balanced public finances, as well as the well-being of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, so already on 17 April, I have been calling you hard before the Congress of Positive Slovenia, asking what to actually do to make the almost hermetically closed state of Slovenia open somehow for foreign direct investment. It is said how to turn Slovenia into an attractive environment for foreign investors. I have also provided you with one very useful table in the written announcement of my oral question made by the Centre for International Relations, published in November 2013 where 24 obstacles for foreign investors are listed. These obstacles were assessed by potential foreign investors from 1 to 5. 1 means irrelevant, 5 means crucial. First of all, high taxes, that's, Mr. Minister, your area where this assessment is, that's really worrying, in 2008, 3.5, and then in 2013, it grew to 3.94, it's almost 4. Then, of course, there are other obstacles, payment indiscipline, high labour costs and so on. It is said that we have the results of this survey, the analyses of this questionnaire answered by foreign investors, potential foreign investors, and in a way I could say, it would be easy for the government to take this into account and gradually address this obstacle through measures. That's what I've been aiming for, and I'd like your answers here, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you. Dr. Uroš Chufer has a word to complete the answer. You want a word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. In fact, as a public sector expense, which is actually borne by the economy, it is certainly one of the elements affecting competitiveness and also the attractiveness of Slovenia for foreign investments on the other hand. There is nothing else I can do here but agree that this is an important element in the overall tax structure. Slovenia may even deviate the most from small, open-ended countries after the taxation of labour, but in order to reduce taxes, it is necessary to prepare an entire austerity programme in the public sector in advance, so that we can maintain only fiscal sustainability, which is also one of the elements where a country is attractive or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr Joseph Horvat has a request to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, however, I very much agree with you, distinguished Minister Dr. Chufer, when you have said, in fact, almost with the rhetoric of the current opposition, that a savings package in the public sector needs to be prepared. This will probably be the task of the next government, a task that will not be popular, but I see that you also agree with me and the opposition and Benjamin Franklin, who said that only two things need to be realized for the wealth of people: entrepreneurship and austerity. It sounds simple, but it's not that easy to do it. Of course, we know what we experienced when we received the ZUJF here. But let's leave it at that. I would like to give effect, Mr President, to my colleagues and colleagues, to the provision of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely its second paragraph. As Minister Chufer himself agrees, the field of foreign direct investment is extremely important. The National Assembly has not yet been disbanded, and I would like to hold a debate on this at the next meeting of the National Assembly and perhaps look for key measures to ease these 24 obstacles that foreign direct potential investors see. This is the task of the National Assembly. The national assembly must work to the end, and the government, even though it is only running business, but no one will prevent this government from taking good measures to really open Slovenia once after 23 years for foreign investors, because we ourselves know that the domestic banks that we have saved do not operate, do not carry out their mission to promote the economy, of course, there is no money at home, so that in fact I do not see that we open the door to foreign investors, consider them, protect them, cannot be reached by anyone in Slovenia, but an investor who has good intentions, and this in my firm opinion would mean that we can somehow get to the needed new jobs as well. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that my procedural proposal will be supported by the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. The Minister of Finance, who conducts the current business, will answer the question of mag. Mark Pogačnik in relation to corporate tax debt.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The basic idea of measures that would allow for a slightly altered mode of payment of tax debt is based on the fact that the State or the tax office is a creditor, as is many other creditors in the case of over-indebted companies, where the creditor, on behalf of taxpayers or when it relates to the contributions of pensioners, has very strict legal rules on how to recover this tax. These very strict legal rules, on the one hand, allow this tax debt to be rational and, on the other hand, prevent certain flexibility where, in cooperation with other creditors, individual undertakings, if it turns out that an agreement between the other creditors could be possible and if it turns out that such an undertaking could survive, relax and increase the possibility of repayment of the debt over a slightly longer period of time, this would allow the likelihood of business survival, job retention and recovery of the tax debt to be prolonged and increased. In doing so, however, it is important to be careful that any softening may also be a trap because abuse may also occur. That's why we said we'd be doing this very restrictively and in steps to prepare ourselves for it. This marriage is now in preparation. In view of the current political situation, whether any of this could be addressed by means of illegal acts, this was actually a basic idea.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u75	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Personally, I believe that this tax debt is probably one of the most worrying issues that I believe the government of Alenka Bratušek and the Ministry of Finance have given them little attention under your leadership. Here we are talking about a tax debt, which is publicly known, about EUR 1.1 billion, where about EUR 600 million is an active tax debt, and the second debt according to media information is the difference in some bankruptcy procedures. I think your government has done a lot, a lot less in this area, because this tax debt also increases from month to month, according to the information we have. Finally, we could say that we have two types of companies in Slovenia: some are said to pay taxes normally but some are not. 1.1 billion euros, I think this is also a huge item for the Slovenian budget, and I am sure that the government and your ministry should do much more in this area, because this would probably strengthen the budget. If this tax debt were to be recovered in some way, on the other hand it would not be necessary to raise tax burdens on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as additional tax burdens on the economy. I want to know: How is it even possible that there was such an extreme tax debt? How can an undertaking fall into such a tax debt? Did Durs do his thing or not? Did you check that they were [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] on Durs, that he failed to recover this tax debt, that this amount had risen to EUR 1.1 billion, saying that probably more than half of this tax debt [[…]] [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you. Dr. Uroš Chufer has a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u77	This high tax debt is mainly an indicator of how deep and long-lasting the financial crisis we have witnessed has been. In fact, it shows a very similar picture as shown by unpaid bad claims in banks. The recovery activities of the tax debt were intense, large and, in fact, also the absorption and reduction process of the tax debt was not overnight but something that was absorbed over a certain period of time. So I'm sure it'll take a while. What is important is two objectives: first, to have as much proceeds as possible for taxpayers and others, by recovery, to cause as little macroeconomic damage as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you. The request for a debate shall be made by a mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u79	Given the problem, I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a broader debate, as it seems to me that this is an important area for the future as well. We're really talking about 1.1 billion. And 1.1 billion in, say, revenues from the Slovenian budget, about over 8 billion, I think it's an important item. I think if certain activities, certain measures were to be activated here, I don't think it would be necessary for a number of taxes to be applied during your government's time. On the other hand, I think that if this tax debt were to be reduced, there would be no need for any debt on the one hand. However, I find it worrying that this tax debt is increasing, from month to month, we can read that this tax debt is higher and higher. And I think that this government here has abandoned the action, action and action taken by the Janša government, and I believe that among some of the parliamentary groups of the current coalition has raised a lot of dust and not many have supported it, that is to say that the tax debt is made public. At that time, it was a measure that reduced this tax debt in a relatively short period. Then, with your government coming in, and with your coalition coming in, this tax debt started to rise again. And I really appeal to the Government, as far as it can be done, to the Ministry of Finance to take a certain measure here, to get this tax back to the state, and in particular to try to complain in some way that this tax debt will increase. Today, we have two kinds of entrepreneurs — one who pay taxes and one who know that they will not pay the tax and that Durs is unable to recover it. It's not just the Ministry of Finance that's being criticized here. We can also ask ourselves if Durs has done all the things he should have done in the last period. Because I personally do not understand how such an extremely high tax debt can occur. In particular, the measures that will be taken here in the future to bring the country back. You wouldn't have to pay a lot of taxes. I think that when the media is also talking about what a tax debt is, probably a lot of companies will be looking for a loophole in the laws if they exist for this tax not to be paid. Once again, I appeal to the Ministry of Finance, institutions, to take the necessary measures to recover and recover this debt as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. And the Minister, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, will answer the question of the Magi. On the financial consequences of the recapitalisation of Bank Celje, Andrej Širclja. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. As regards the recapitalisation of Bank Celje, Bank Celje is currently in the state aid process and the European Commission, DG COMP is actually reviewing the financial plan with them. The expected financial implications are the recapitalisation of around € 160 million and the transfer of bad claims from Bank Celje to a bad bank in the amount still under the financial programme of Bank Celje's restructuring programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! The Bank of Celje also created a significant loss in 2013. There were also a lot of bad claims, I think there were about 170 million bad claims. Finally, Banka Slovenije invited Banka Celje to recapitalise. The first complementary question is: Why didn't they do it, or will the existing owners do it? We know that Nova Ljubljanska Banka is the largest owner here, I think 40%. Will foreign investors or domestic investors, private investors, or will this actually be passed on to the shoulders of taxpayers? Indeed, from this reply you have given, it shows that there has been no successful recapitalisation by existing owners, no new owners. And here I'm wondering: Why did this happen? And second, about the reliability of the data. If DG COMP is now reviewing these bad claims, of course, the question is now: Do they hold the Bank of Slovenia's estimates after a 160 million recapitalisation or not? Will this recapitalisation be greater? What does this mean for another bank, or after all, or banks in line for this recapitalisation? Is it possible that some state bank will not be recapitalised by the state or that everything will actually be here? There is probably a shortage of SID banks, which is also a state bank that is supposed to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? Dr. Urosh Chufer has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u85	I did not see very many questions, especially comments. Perhaps only so much in explanation, this is actually the standard procedure for DG COMP to review the restructuring programme, to deliver an opinion, and this is always to some extent also an interactive work between the two institutions. As far as existing owners are concerned. Existing owners had the opportunity to recapitalise, banks that are in the state aid scheme have no right to recapitalise, and therefore the pool of investors has decreased accordingly. In fact, when the Bank made its efforts to find external investors, additional investors, it did not find any other, so the Bank of Slovenia contacted the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to assist Banka Celje in the framework of the Banka Celje's aid and stabilisation law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you. The request to hold a discussion on the answer shall have a mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I propose that this issue be discussed primarily because we do not really know whether we have completed the rehabilitation of banks in our country. After all, we don't have the final number, what it's going to cost. I think that this case is one of many, or one of many, that indicates that a successful recovery has not been carried out so far and that nothing has been done in the management and management of these banks or this bank. I say that this can be an example of not having done so, and therefore I propose a general debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to a question that will be answered by the Minister of Defence, Mr Roman Jakič, who is conducting ongoing business, which will answer the question of mag. Ivan Vogrin in connection with the payment of Slovenian soldiers. Here you go, Mr. Jakic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Member, the questions are nine, so I do not believe that we will be able to answer everything within this short time frame. Therefore, I propose that if you agree to send for the other questions that I will now leave out, written answers from the Ministry of Defence. In response, I will mainly try to focus on the payment of readiness to work in the Slovenian Army, to which one of its letters also reminds the union, and I think that some of the facts it cites are somewhat misleading. Firstly, by means of the aforementioned regulation, which is an internal organisational act of the Ministry, under the current legal order, the Minister, notwithstanding the fact that this act has been signed by my predecessor, cannot lay down the rights and obligations of employees beyond the applicable rules, but can only lay down internal rules for their implementation. In addition to any rule on "legalisation" of the irregular payment of the work of soldiers, the Supreme Court of Labour and Social Court found in two legal judgments when it decided on collective actions of the Slovenian military unions, by which it rejected their requirements for repealing the Regulation and also for a different payment of readiness. Unfortunately, the unions have been silenced, it is said that there is some legal process concerning what is being complained about, has already gone through the Higher Labour and Social Court and has fallen there. The trade union has initiated two collective labour disputes, namely the first collective labour dispute for the purpose of paying the standstill allowance under Article 46 of the Public Sector Collective Contract for the time when the readiness of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces is determined at work or a specific place, and the second against the rules on the way in which certain labour costs and the reimbursement of relocation costs are calculated and paid by the guards. And that's where the legal judgment came in. The Ministry of Defence cannot pay overtime or anything other than those laid down in the rules in force until any other arrangement of the level of the permanent standstill allowance in Article 46 of the Collective Agreement is made available to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. On the basis of all of this, I can conclude that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are paid under the applicable rules for their work as well as for their willingness to work when they are not actually working and are therefore not counted during their regular working hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Minister, for the correct conclusion that we are not going to solve the problem now and would also like to ask for a written answer. Look, I'm a practical man. What would you like to point out? The difference is whether someone is ready to work at home, such as a doctor on duty, is at home to be called, or whether he is a soldier who is on the ground or in a barracks. And if he gets 80 cents for an hour, we leave the rules, there's something wrong with us. Then you're sitting somewhere for 80 cents an hour. Look, the rules are wrong, that's what we're warned about. Secondly, Mr. Secretary, I've had a union meeting a few times, because let's just say they feel like I feel like I'm with them. With the lousy wages they have, there's another characteristic. On 1 May, representatives of the State had a large talk about private employers violating the right of workers. Do you know which employer in this country is the biggest violator? The state itself. Do you have any idea how many charges are filed by the soldiers, including the police against the state, and they're going to sue? According to my information, they're going to sue everyone, except maybe where they're too hasty or if they're really misappealing. It hurts, you know, that some 20,000 gross wages, and a soldier thousand 300 euros, that hurts people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? Mr. Roman Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I'd leave it to the courts to judge and not be able to claim for myself, whether I'm sure which side will win a trial. Whether this arrangement for payment of readiness in the defence field is appropriate is, of course, another issue, and I am joining your opinion that this needs to be changed. The amount of the stand-by allowance was amended in 2008 when the new pay system was adopted and the new collective contract for the public sector provided only one level of the stand-by allowance, although the Defence Act provides for three types of readiness, that is to say in the workplace, in the other place or at home. The effects have also been made, including the proposals made by the Ministry of Defence or my predecessors have already been mediated. You can see for yourself when calculating these cents and euros that the Service Act in the Slovenian Army provides that salaries in the Slovenian Army are subject to the rules governing the salaries of public servants. If we wanted to accept an independent payment system for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, if I could call it a separate payment system, a broader government and social consensus would be needed. However, despite the current financial situation, I do not think we can expect this to happen. This, of course, also opens Pandora’s complete box when we need to re-examine all the facts. I think it is very difficult, even for us as an employer it is very difficult for members and members of the Slovenian Army to classify them as payment classes. Payment classes exist, are already classified, but when we do a comparative analysis with other professions similar to professions, we find that the military could be subject to specifics. It is necessary to say at the same time that the military, police and staff in institutions such as prisons in the starting class are starting five grades higher than other civil servants, and to say that when you speak 700 euros net, it is those who have a third or fourth or fifth level of education and are classified in the payment class that we have established in the past in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you. Can we just get this out of the way? Thank you. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mag. Andrej Šircelj, Slovenian Democratic Party, will ask the Minister of Finance, who carries out the ongoing business, Dr Uros Chufer. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! My question concerns the management of bad claims. This is mainly about the fact that in last year's year, we set up the Bank's Claims Management Company in 2013. This was done by a country that owns 100 percent of this company. Various procedures were conducted in this company last year. And last but not least, before the new year, the claims of the two banks were transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company. The evaluations were by the European Commission or DG COMP, and the assessments were by expert advisory companies for these claims. Here, of course, it must be said that the Bank Claims Management Company did not participate in these assessments. I am talking in advance about these evaluations that took place in 2013. However, the Bank Claims Management Company assessed 20 companies and found that the estimates made in 2013 were not consistent with the estimates made by the company a little later, two months later. As a result, the Bank's Claims Management Company has 81 million losses. Of course, it's in the balance sheet itself. All acts were under the control of the Bank of Slovenia and under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance regarding the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Now the company is losing, and it is estimated that they are not holding this assessment. I want to know: Why did this happen? Why has the company not been included in this assessment before? Why is it that this company is simply doing business in 2013 at the very beginning?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you. The answer is given by Dr. Uroš Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. In fact, the process of assessing and evaluating claims transferred to a bad bank ended in the phase where, as we said earlier, the European Commission, DG COMP, in fact, placed prices of what is a long-term economic value, the only recognised value by which these claims can be transferred over. The Bank's Poor Claims Company, when it prepared its opening balance sheet, for which it actually needs revision, and in the course of the portfolio transfer, has made some assessments, but I think that these assessments will actually be merciless after the auditor has looked at and assessed the actual value of these claims in his balance sheet.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Shircelj, you have a chance to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u99	Yeah, sure. First of all, I asked the Minister why it actually happened. And now the additional complication is that the company does not have all the information the auditor wants. Why doesn't the company have all the data? Because this information has either the Ministry of Finance or the Bank of Slovenia or both together. After all, there is a lack of information in this company that is essential for the auditor, as I understand from the press, to make a revised report for these companies at all. It is necessary to be aware that this company is a share company and must actually make a revised annual report in accordance with the International Accounting Standards Act. After all, it must also be submitted to the Government. But now the auditor can't do this because he has no data, the company can't provide data because the Bank of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance, which I don't know what you're doing at the Ministry with this data, but we're simply in a vicious circle here. And it actually sheds a very bad light on the start of this company's business, despite the fact that there are a lot of other questions about it, but here it is some basic concept. I also want to know why such mistrust. Why is the lack of trust between the Ministry of Finance, which represents the owner, called the Government or the State, and, on the other hand, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, that they do not get this information in time?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u101	Maybe you need to explain that it's not about any vicious circle. It is very simple that the transfer of claims started at the end of last year, around 20 December, and ended about a week ago, one or two. In fact, it seems to me that the auditor's fact and decision to look at all the data, not to decide on the basis of 20 evaluations, the entire value of the portfolio, is the only right decision to actually look at very precisely where the data are, to look at all those data that have not yet been transferred to a bad bank and which are actually an element of evaluation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u103	See, I think that for Slovenia and how Slovenia will emerge from the economic, financial, social, moral crisis, a key question of how the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and also the Bank will at the same time simply start to carry out these bad claims differently. However, the condition is that this company has current data and that it actually participates in the evaluation itself, does not receive instructions from the Ministry of Finance or the inter-ministerial team or group established, what and how it will do and what claims will be transferred, at what price and so on. If there had been more cooperation, there would not have been such a situation that today we have an unaudited annual report from the Bank Claims Management Society instead of a revised one, in so far as it is legally necessary for such a company to have a revised annual report. For this reason, I propose that the reply of the Minister of Finance be discussed and that the issues mentioned above be raised more widely.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the votes. Mr Mikhael Prevc, Minister for Infrastructure and the Place of Business, Mr Sam Omerzel, will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! You will recall that I have already pointed out to you during the adoption of the budget changes for this year the difficulties that may arise from your poor budgeting for transport infrastructure. At that time, you insisted that the funds were sufficient, even though, for example, only for current maintenance, you put them on a total of EUR 8 million. You have also ensured that investments for which you have provided only EUR 110 million will continue without problems. You also said that before the end of 2013, you will present a new concept of financing Slovenian state roads and that there will be no consequences on Slovenian state roads due to budget cuts for 2014. But look, at the beginning of this year, my warnings about such a drastic reduction in budget resources on your line, unfortunately, have begun to come true. Already in January, the Slovenian public gained information that due to the poor situation at 15 bridge facilities either traffic must be restricted or shut down completely. At that time, you ensured that you would approach this situation immediately. Today, almost five months after that, the situation on the ground is exactly the same as that of January — variable one-way traffic, traffic lights and multi-kilometre congestion, and no renewal of the spirit or hearing. In view of your statements, which could be seen in the media, that we are missing as much as €115 million in the budget for the ongoing financing of bridging facilities, for which some €30 million of funding should be provided, it will obviously not be possible to do so. That's why I'm asking you the following, distinguished minister: How will you ensure the implementation of the Ministry's statutory tasks and all investments in transport infrastructure? And the second question: When will the remediation or repair of bulkhead facilities on which the alternating one-way traffic was introduced in January 2014 begin or how? And third questions: At what stage is the concept of financing state roads, which you have been predicting for almost a year? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u107	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Member, thank you very much for the questions. You started your own adoption of the 2012 budget. What is true and what is true with regard to the planned resources has already been found to be insufficient in the home infrastructure committee. The Home Committee then instructed the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to seek the missing funds, not only for state roads, but also for subsidies for the transport of students and students to school and for the missing funds on the railways. It should be borne in mind that, at that time, all ministries were given limits within which budgets should have been planned for our ministries and, in accordance with the financial situation at that time, we have also prepared allocations of funds according to needs. I must stress that when we talk about investments, the only investments moving forward are investments co-financed by European funds. It should be borne in mind that all the projects under way in these investments are running smoothly. It is extremely important that they run smoothly, because if we do not close these investments, we are forced to return EUR 560 million of European funds. I hope that everyone, including me, is aware of how important and serious these investments are in this spirit as well as in the spirit of economic development. When we are talking about the missing funds and activities that we have done as a ministry in this area, the first rescue proposals have also been sent to the Ministry of Finance in November 2013 in accordance with the requirements of the home committee. So as soon as the budget was approved. All proposals, including a proposal on how to resolve state roads, were prepared and sent to the Ministry of Finance. Among other things, a proposal for a State Road Rescue Act and funding from a 'gas centre' was prepared, but unfortunately, I must say that all the proposals prepared and sent by our ministry were not supported. Several proposals were sent through the Committee on the Economy to the Government, where they were also withdrawn from the debate before the government's own meeting. I would therefore like to point out that, at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have been preparing proposals to deal with the unsustainable financial situation, but unfortunately there has been no hearing for these proposals. With regard to solving the problem for the common table, I must point out that, as Minister of Infrastructure and Space, before the press conference, I asked myself whether I really had exhausted all the possibilities for discussions within the government to find a solution to finance those projects or those legal minimums that we must provide within the Ministry, and believe me, my answer to that was yes. I have exhausted absolutely all the opportunities for discussions at the common table and therefore I did not want this issue to remain closed, and therefore I wanted the public to be aware of it, and on this basis we are looking for a solution together to find funding sources also for the question that you are asking. In particular, in the case of bridge facilities, 15 are such where we have traffic restrictions, on the two we immediately approached resolution, immediately in January we prepared documentation and invitation to tender for these two facilities, i.e. as soon as we knew we had the limit and for these two facilities we also found funds, made transfers, and for these two facilities the call was immediately under way and we also made sure that these two facilities would be rehabilitated. For the remaining 13 facilities, which you also mention, unfortunately, we do not have the resources at the Ministry. In case we find these funds, and I strongly hope that we will find them, the projects are ready and we can go to rehab. As regards the profession and the technical part of the Ministry's preparation, everything is taken care of, but I hope that you too understand that without funds we as the Ministry cannot realize this. You're asking me about the legal minimum we have to provide on state roads. Once again, to ensure a legal minimum, resources are needed, which means that maintenance is necessary, that concession contracts are signed and that we lack funds in this area. And once again, in the context of my press conference, where I pointed out this issue, and also in the context of the material that we sent to the government a good month ago, I hope that we will find these funds so that we can [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the legal minimum on state roads. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Prevc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Minister, for those answers. That's exactly what I expected. I believe that it was then difficult to obtain additional funds, but the Minister-designate, we have already warned you at the time of the adoption of the budget, or of the budget balance, that there is much, much too little on your budget items. I am sure that at the time of the adoption of the budget you knew that there were not enough resources in your budget, I am sure that you knew that there were not enough resources to carry out all the statutory tasks, we warned you, you should have hit the table at that time, because we also somehow said that you had actually drawn the shortest end between all the departments concerning the acquisition of funds. Why didn't you hit the table then? Or not lastly, you offered a protest retreat because you knew the funds were too small. In the case of funds to subsidise the transport of students and students, you had to know by then that the funds were too small and that they would run out after a bad half year. Look, Minister, I'm specifically interested in this: How is the situation with regard to the crossing over Medvode-Ljubljana railway? The fact is, 12 thousand vehicles or more drive on a daily basis. You must have mistakenly stated to me that this object is not on the list. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] objects, although the map actually shows the situation differently. [[…]] I would like to know how long there will be a half-carriage or a half-carriage on this road section. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Member, I thank you in truth for your thinking and for the issue raised regarding my reactions, even when it comes to the adoption of the 2014 budget. I also asked myself this question when it would be a good time to respond to the situation. I have to say that when I adopted the budget, I was considered part of the government's team, because I was sure that we would be looking together for solutions to the situation. And the fact is, when the budget was adopted, and the debate of all Members went in this direction, we knew that we needed these funds to provide more resources. What I am asking myself, and where I actually believed in the word and believed in the promises, we, when we made up the budget, sat together with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance and reviewed the item. And what I believed at the time, and this is what I'm beginning to realize to myself that we are a team, I believed it, and also promises from the Ministry of Finance that together we will find a solution and resources in 2014, I believed that at the level of the Minister the word applied something. I believed that as a team, we would definitely find these funds. I am aware that we are talking about the 100 million euro ranking, but in the light of experience from the past and the leaders of the financial sector in our ministry, I was confident that we would find these funds together with the Ministry of Finance. Certainly, it was clear to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space at the time that the Ministry would not be able to find these funds within the redeployments. Today, I hope to conclude to myself that I was politically naive at the time and that I believed in the word. I'm just so made in my life that the word basically means everything to me, and that's what I expected at this level. Unfortunately, however, we have come into a situation where that is not the case. Despite all our proposals, the solution has not been sought together, and that is why my reaction has also been in this direction. I know that political response wasn't wise to me, that's crystal clear to me. But I've never treated myself as a politician. In order to react sooner than I did at the press conference 13. 5 — I probably should, but by that time I believed that we would find a solution to the situation together. For a concrete bridge facility that you're asking me about because it's not in question, I have to admit that I don't know exactly what the situation is right now. But I'm going to do a background check on this facility, and I'm going to give it to you in writing. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u112	Here you are, Mr. Prevc, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u113	In view of these answers, or perhaps even of the Minister's thinking and in view of the fact that the Minister is aware of the problems in these areas, it would be appropriate to discuss this issue. The fact is that a large number of projects in the area of reconstruction of regional roads have also been missing in this year's year due to the lack of funding. I think 40 projects are like this all over Slovenia. These are projects that have already been under way, these are projects where the complete documentation is in the back and they have stopped because of the lack of funds. There are now construction sites that require certain costs. Finally, contracts with contractors have been terminated. This means re-determined costs for the country, means certain costs of penalties which the State will therefore have to pay and costs to protect these buildings. Given that these projects are all over Slovenia, I am sure that tomorrow Members will support this proposal irrespective of political conviction and that we will hold this general debate on this subject. I therefore propose once again that this issue be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your proposal. We will discuss and decide on it tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will now be asked by Mrs Renata Brunskole, the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, who carries out the current business, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, a nice greeting to another Minister, colleague and colleague here. Several times in this mandate, as well as in the previous term of the Council of State, my question referred to the course of the transport link between the 3rd development axis – the southern part. This is a demographically endangered area of the White Land, which has gained, unfortunately, this status following the decision of the Government. Unfortunately, because this means that this is an area that needs help. During the previous term of office, in 2009, and then by a decision in 2011, the Government adopted a programme to promote competitiveness and development, the Pokolpja programme by 2016. In this programme it is also important or I can say even the most important infrastructure project of the third development axis of the southern part. Mr. Secretary, as I have asked you several times in this mandate, this time, I would like to ask you: How many movements were made during your term as Minister of Infrastructure and Space in connection with the course of the route or the implementation part of the 3rd development axis — the southern part, that is, from New City or from Dolenjska to White Krajina? Why am I asking you this? If we look at the beginning of the 3rd development axis route, that is from New City, this route practically starts when the Ljubljana–Zagreb motorway section ends, the highway network, and then connects to Novo Mesto. The 3rd development axis from New Town goes past Krka, TPV or Revoz and further towards White Krajina. My question also follows the question, which has been raised several times as an initiative also by the competent leaders of the three Belarusian municipalities, both mayors and mayors, in order to start buying land as soon as possible. I myself have given this initiative to you and to the President of the Government. So I have a question for you: Have you already initiated a land purchase procedure at the Ministry, at least in the workplace, as far as financial resources may have enabled you?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u117	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Madam Member, thank you very much for the question. Indeed, we have debated the third development axis several times this year of my ministry. I must say that after this year's ministry as a minister, it is clear to me what investments in infrastructure mean and how important they are to the development of the economy. It is perfectly and crystal clear to me that the order must also be such. There is no doubt that investment in infrastructure must first be taken care of if economic growth is to be pursued. And also the policy, whoever will come after us, whatever government will come after us, is my advice to ask colleagues, ministers across Europe, where they will see examples of good practice. I had this debate with my colleagues from Europe myself. All to the last were in a situation similar to that of Slovenia today, and the basic, fundamental, elemental thing for economic growth was investment in infrastructure, which is support for the economy as a whole, and then economic growth. There is no doubt that we must not create illusions, that we will create economic growth without infrastructure and then draw funds for infrastructure investments from here, this will not work. I also have a map or a graphic display of the entire 3rd axis, in which this southern part of the New City also covers the border with Croatia. We will gladly deliver this to you in digital or any other form. As regards the situation on the southern part of the 3rd development axis, the State Spatial Plan was adopted in 2012 for this section until the accession of Malina. During my term of office we prepared a decomposition of the section from Malin to Montenegro south, so the decomposition of the State Spatial Plan we had in autumn 2013. On the basis of this elaboration, a number of expert comments currently under preparation and those which are justified and even improve certain ideas are also taken into account in further activities in the implementation of the State Spatial Plan from Malina to Montenegro or Metlika. The third part from Montenegro to Vinica and the border with Croatia is practically linked to the previous section. Once the activities in the previous section have been completed, the activities in this section will continue. What is crucial in this connection is that we need to think here in the direction that it will be a paying part of the highway, which means that the resolution of the national development of state roads is the one that is being prepared at the Ministry and is in its final stage. This year this resolution should respond to all the needs and simulations of future traffic in the Republic of Slovenia. On this basis, the eligibility of individual investments will also be fully clear, and it will also be clear what will be the traffic flow in the future on our roads, as well as what period will then have to be counted on for the eligibility of investments. Buying and investing in this part of the road infrastructure is very strongly linked to our concessionaire. It is Dars who has a concession to manage and also on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia to invest in state roads. In the annual programme of Darsa, this is also part that must be taken into account as concessionary in the future. However, I am sure that what will be a key response to investment decisions is also strongly linked to the national resolution on the development of transport infrastructure in our country, which will respond to the eligibility of individual investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Brunskol.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer. I am sure that the resolution is also necessary, but my question was very exact in connection with the purchase of land. And let me also refer to you as an economist and an acquaintance of this department, that in fact, like the former Minister of Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stanko Stepišnik has over the whole period stressed the importance of starting up the economy, supporting the economy and thus establishing economic growth, here I fully agree with you that the area of the White Land, where we have some important economic operators, such as in the area of Metlika Kolpa or in Semich, the company Iskra and in Montenegro, Secop, which will later inherit with new jobs, if I may say so, the new establishment of the company Akrapovic, where there are also expectations of Belokranjk and Belokranjci and some light, as they would say, at the end of the tunnel. And I would like this very tunnel at the section of the New City to the White Land, which is the part of Malina or Malina, as we call it, to be built as soon as possible and to be made a purchase of land. That's why I'm interested in the point: Is there any possibility that potential domestic or foreign investors could be found for this project, as well as part of the funding from European funds? This would also be my question with the wish that this project would see the light of the world, because several times the White Houses have also been sceptic, so that they will not experience the 3rd development axis, which I think is not true, and I want the White Country to ensure this transport connection as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much for the words and thank you very much for the opportunity for further clarifications. I certainly, and of course now very much of my own personal opinion, I am confident from the information and data I currently have at the Ministry, and I believe that the resolution will also confirm that the eligibility of the link between the Slovenian motorway leg and Croatia is absolutely in place. I am convinced that the eligibility numbers for the investment of the connection from the New City to Karlovac, where we connect to the Croatian motorway leg, because the traffic flows are in fact taking place in one direction towards the Croatian coast and in the other part towards Slavonia and against the link with Belgrade, are confident that the traffic flow here will justify this investment. In carrying out the procedures themselves, it is in this direction that all the activities I have described so far require the following steps in the field surveys, in the detailed analysis and implementation of the project documentation, and on the basis of this investment and project documentation, ownership rights are then acquired at these sections. In thinking about the concessionaire and the provision of funds, I am sure that with numbers and traffic flows, the investment itself will be justified and from this point of view I also believe that the very basis for funding will then not raise any doubts and that this part of the Slovenian motorway leg can also be built in the future and the financial effects will be positive in the investment itself or in the return of the investment in this arm. However, even in the case of a broader view of economic eligibility, which will certainly bring back additional infrastructure, the necessary infrastructure for economic growth in Slovenia. Now, again, my personal opinion. I am convinced and advocate that we should actually think about concessionaires in Slovenia, in different ways, whether it is the privatisation of Dars or whether it is the granting of new concessions. Especially in the spirit of looking for new investors, new concessionaires, even for sections such as this section of the New City towards the Croatian border [[sign for the end of the debate]] I would give a warm recommendation to my successor to take things this way. [[…]] A resolution that speaks and responds to traffic flows in Slovenia will be a very good basis for the further development of this infrastructure. I hope that this work will continue and that we will also get this infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mrs Mateja Pučnik, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, who conducts ongoing business, Dr Jerne Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At the end of the school year and before the start of the new school year, parents face the situation of purchasing school supplies. A significant part of the cost, as well as the problem of heavy school bags, is the work volumes, which are usually confirmed by parents during the spring sessions of the parental world. However, the fact is that parents usually do not know what is or is available on the market, so it is difficult to assess whether textbooks and work volumes are materially appropriate or cost-effective. Therefore, they usually leave the choice to experts, that is, teachers. It is also illogical to note that the prices of work volumes ranging from publishing to publishing, as well as from school to school, vary greatly. From a rather low price to a much higher price. It is also problematic that some work volumes vary according to content. Many parents, who are also supported by some experts, are convinced that publishing is a waste of income due to the lower sales of textbooks, which students benefit from under the textbook funds, which is certainly good, replaced by work volumes. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: Why are there so many different prices for work volumes after school? Why can’t the Ministry provide or set a uniform price for work volumes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Vice President; Member and all present! There are a few things that need to be taken into account here. I think you've brought them up to speed. It is not so simple to reach out to the market with such a very simple measure as you call it to determine the price of textbooks. What if this price were high? It doesn't say anywhere that this price that would have been set would have been low. To talk about it so easily that we just determine the price of textbooks, of course, would not necessarily, I'm talking about it, would not necessarily solve the problem. All of us who are parents are in one way or another concerned about all that you have explained. But it's about, uh, now I can say, some sort of seasonal thing. As you explained, each time in May, by May 31st, teachers or principals must determine which are the textbooks to be considered for the next school year. And what it takes to determine prices, not only in price setting, but in which work volumes are going to be used, are three things. On the one hand, the expert opinion of teachers. I would not have it as just one more opinion, but as a very professional opinion of teachers, because we have the doctrine that it is an important educational goal. How and in what way an individual teacher reaches this educational goal is his teaching autonomy, and it is also possible for each individual teacher to choose his or her own course of education, conduct, experience. Another time. What needs to be known is competition rules that also apply in the case of publishing. Thirdly, it is important that, even if measures or instructions of the Ministry are taken into account, the prices of these work volumes and also of textbooks, but more labour volumes, be brought into the appropriate frameworks. We have published instructions on our website regarding textbooks and goals that both the principals and the saints of parents and everyone else should be following. One of the key objectives is to mitigate the financial burden on parents. On the one hand, the Ministry provides free borrowing of textbooks from textbook funds; on the other hand, our instructions are to reduce, to the extent that this is educationally acceptable, the use of work volumes, of all types of other learning materials, because this increases costs. On the other hand, we've been carrying an e-school bag project for several years. The purpose of the e-school bag project is to develop e-builders, thereby reducing the weight of school bags and at the same time making substantive reflections on textbooks and work volumes. And thirdly, what needs to be taken into account is the consistency of these textbooks and work volumes with curricula. So not that it's just like that, but for that we have a clearly designed system of how this thing works. I would like to stress once again that we share concerns about the cost of work materials or work links in general. I think this is a huge burden for family budgets. Before this validation process began for the following year, we also had a working group, which has already submitted to me a report on how to regulate these matters, to put less burden on them and to preserve everything I said before, namely autonomy and, on the other hand, to pursue all the educational objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Matthew Puchnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much for this part of the answer, Your Honor. I'm glad you mentioned e-school materials and an e-book. In 2008, the Ministry of Education allocated extensive funds for e-learning and e-building. And even within the framework of the Education Institute, a number of highly successful teacher and principal education has been carried out in the e-school project, which are now fully available online to teachers, students and students. Natural e-learning textbooks and e-buildings were also presented in 2012 as part of the Unesco Open Learning Materials Conference, also in Oslo at the meeting of European Union ministers. In this case, Slovenia has received praise and has proved itself to be at the very top of the European Union in this segment. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Why do you not promote these Slovenian achievements more, not at home or abroad, and thus still allow yourself to use sustainable materials in schools, which are very modernly equipped with electronic devices, in the vast majority, so that paper work volumes – as you have already said – are still very burdensome for parents? And last: Will you, however, take advantage of the potentials of free e-teachers and e-builders that the then Minister, Dr Milan Zver, made possible by the call from European funds? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much for this part of the question. As far as e-builders are concerned, I think we are continuing what has been stopped here; not only that, I think we have also greatly upgraded. Also in the mandate that followed the mandate of the Minister of the Beast, the matter went forward and also within one more term of office, and the matter goes on in this mandate. However, there is one eternal issue and an eternal problem in these e-constructions, especially those made in the framework of projects – this is updating. In fact, when the project is completed when the e-building is done, there is no longer any incentive for this material to be updated because it is the logic of project financing. I'm afraid so. And that is what is the biggest obstacle to this matter. Here is one of the key points where we need to find a solution for this material, which has a lot of work and funding, to be updated and used later. As for the promotion, I'm glad you mentioned it. I don't know, maybe it went a little bit past the Slovenian public, which isn't very sensitive to such things. I don't know if you know, but I think we organized a presentation of a very big Opening up Slovenia project about three weeks ago. European Commissioner for Education, Culture, Multilingualism, Mrs Vassiliou has also been to Ljubljana. For Slovenia will be the pilot country, the e-invoice pilot project, for digitisation, and in this way we are the first in the European Union to go this way. Within this Opening up Slovenia is a beautiful part also designed to promote e-constructions, e-books and so on, as well as other things. For the key to modernisation and the key to the future, if we are now talking about digital education and these matters, it is how to ensure quality. Within national systems, we have this well-managed; when things become digital, cross-border, online and so on, then we face a number of issues that are of the highest quality issues. We are discussing this with other ministers around the world on several occasions. And Slovenia will become a pilot country under this project, so that we can test everything that is involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Ms Iva Dimic, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, who conducts ongoing business, will ask the next question, which is justifiably absent, Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! Unfortunately, she's not with us today. The situation of workers' rights in Slovenia is deteriorating from year to year. This is noted by the Ombudsman, who recently, in cooperation with the Council of State, prepared a consultation on the issue of the increasingly poor situation of workers in Slovenia. At this meeting, the Ombudsman highlighted the area of non-payment of salaries, various contributions and salaries, forms of work under copyright and business contracts, the pressure of employees to acquire the status of independent entrepreneurs, the increasingly poor working position of young people, as well as of older and other vulnerable groups. Workers became one of the most exploited social groups. Payments for their work are too low and often irregular. Contributions for the health and pension insurance of workers remain outstanding for several years. There is also a growing number of other infringements of workers' rights, particularly bullying or mobbing in jobs. The number of infringements of workers' rights is increasing from month to year, and workers must apply payments for their work despite the possible inspection procedure against the employer in expensive and long-term judicial proceedings. The existing supervision of the implementation of labour law should therefore be re-organized, with a different systemic approach, perhaps in the way that it was previously controlled through the former Social Accounting Service. So, Madam Minister, I ask you: What new legislative solutions do you have planned or may already be ready to effectively control the implementation of labour regulations, especially in those days when we have the case of the bankruptcy of Aha Mura and the great social distress of the employees and their families there? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much for asking. You will receive the reply in writing, as set out in the Rules of Procedure. The next question will be posed by the mag. Majda Potrat, Minister of Culture, who conducts ongoing business, Dr. Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, you are doing business, Members and Members of Parliament! At the edge of a very hot debate on the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, some were alerted to the problems perceived by Slovenian archives, not only because of the necessary digitisation, but also because of the places where documentary and archive materials are stored. Within the mandate of the Pahor's Government, the Archives Act was already well prepared and indicated that it would be coordinated with the archival profession, with all stakeholders. At that time, there was also a list of the necessary spatial adaptations or new constructions that had been achieved to some extent, and one among them remained very fine. After the archive in Ptuj, the archive in Koper, the first new building of the archive was to see the light of the world in Maribor. However, in public publications, it was with regard to the Maribor archive that it was possible to detect the appeals of the director of the Maribor archive and to point out that the inspection was, in fact, because of the dance, which required, in principle, a closure or non-issue of the material stored in the landscape archive in the depot or in the warehouse. At that time, I myself looked at the deposits in the Adriatic and was surprised at the scope of these deposits, and also disappointed at the very poor working conditions of many employees who, by the way, performed this important archiving service through public works. Minister, I ask you: What activities is the Ministry of Culture carrying out or planning to provide appropriate spatial conditions for the operations of the Maribor Regional Archives, which will provide satisfactory protection or storage of archive material? Although the original complete prison from April has grown to a limited prison, the availability of material is limited. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u135	Dear President, honourable Member, honourable Members, welcome! Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, you will recall that in the National Programme for Culture we have very carefully pointed out the serious spatial problem of Slovenian archives. Last year, only the Ptuj archive was somehow strengthened for modern facilities that serve their purpose. In this year, I can now tell you that by buying additional space we will save the archive of Nova Gorica. From the archives there is only a Celesian one who can boast that he has as much decent space as he has. All others, however, need to find solutions and we are doing so. The historical archive of Ljubljana in Kvedrov is where we try to solve part of the problem of archives, which is linked to central Slovenia. The unit at the Gram Castle is the one that is in the process of producing and ordering project documentation. A solution is also sought for the Republic of Slovenia Archive in Roška, along with the film archive. In particular, 2 archives are still quite far away from the long-term solution, namely Koper and Maribor. It is true that if as much energy as has been invested in the archival referendum by all political parties, in seeking the appropriate spatial, human and technological equipment of the archives, the archival profession today would be more pleased with the conditions we provide for it. The Maribor Regional Archives was 24. 3. a decision on the inspection of the warehouse of the Landscape Archive of Maribor on the Adriatic Road 27, on the basis of which the Director informed users that the use of the material from this location was still impossible. At the Ministry, we immediately called a meeting of all involved, including the inspectorate, the head of the Centre for Restoration and Conservation of Archive Material at the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, Director Ivan Fras, and checked what the inspection decision included and what the timeline was. We have also provided the Maribor archive with all the professional assistance provided by the Slovenian and Ministry Archives. Key findings were that it was necessary to look at the material and to keep the material that had not been damaged somehow in use as it has been so far. It was found that the possible transfer of the archive to the replacement premises would not make sense until the extent of the injury had actually been established; the warehouse should thus remain in use and not be completely closed. Inaccessible is only damaged material. Seven. 5. a review was carried out of the warehouse of the Maribor archive in the Adriatic, and we have found that the Landscape Archive of Maribor does not review the extent of the damaged material. That there are 7,000 feet [7,000 m] of archive material at this location, that there are only about 1 feet [about 1 m] of liquid material that is damaged. Therefore, the Ministry, in cooperation with experts from the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, the Cultural and Media Inspectorate and with the leadership of the Maribor Regional Archives, provided support for the archive, so that only this part of the damaged material is now unavailable. At the same time, we have made it clear that there is a need to take a concrete approach to a long-term solution to the problem at this location. You know, for quite some time, a solution was sought within the framework of the main market 7 building, where denationalisation took place for almost two decades. That later a solution was sought within the secondary school centre on Ljubljana Street in Tabor, where it also proved impossible, so I became 17. 4. to help find the location turned to the Municipality of Maribor and also received an appropriate response by the mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The first reaction was like you said – complete closure. The second reaction was a notification that on the spot, according to the Adriatic users will not be able to access the material; however, for research purposes and administrative procedures, an individual as a copy will be able to obtain it after a thorough examination. I have to say, I've been following everything that's been published in the media. In addition to hinting that perhaps someone really wanted the archive material to be destroyed, it was said that the archive material that was suggested was not stored in the Adriatic. For the first time, I have heard that this is a relatively limited injury, which on the one hand gives me the hope that those who were to deal with such damaged and infected materials were not as severely affected as I initially assumed when I was reading data on 7,000 metres of material. However, it is necessary to know that the Maribor archive has a total of 17,000 running meters of accumulated material. It is interesting, however, which material is stored here and that the Landscape Archive in Maribor also has the oldest charter, which is the basis for a city holiday. In 1164, Maribor was first named in the Charter. I want to know: What about the material that was made? Will it be possible to restore it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u139	Your Honor! I hope my answer doesn't say that it's not a serious matter. It's still a very serious matter. But it is true that the director's first reaction was exaggerated. The damaged material is in the restoration phase and the damage is such that it will be possible to restore it according to the experts’ assurances. I must point out that the archives to carry out their basic activities still need adequate premises; the appropriate deposit facilities, the restoration facilities, the appropriate deposits, which also have an appropriate climate situation. Without this, the protection of archival material as a cultural monument is threatened. Therefore, there is a warning about the spatial conditions in which Slovenian archives are operating today, and how real they are. I believe that in the coming days, we will also be informed by the heads of the archives where they have certain needs. The resolution on the national programme for culture makes this very clear and nomadic, and I am sure that we will gradually get to the archives to ensure an appropriate situation. Maybe just to give you some information – The archive of the Republic of Slovenia stores more than 20,000 running metres of archive material and the premises are more than occupied. Almost 8,000 running meters store an archive in Celje, an archive in Koper 6 thousand meters, Maribor almost 17 thousand meters, Nova Gorica for a good 3,000 meters and it is already well above average occupied. Ptuj feeds 3 thousand 200 running meters, and the historical archive of Ljubljana is 14 thousand meters and is currently facing very serious problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We continue with the question raised by Mr Andrej Čuš, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of the current business, Dr Anji Kopač Dark, who is excused to be absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greeting to all representatives of the government, of course also to colleagues and colleagues! Today there has been some talk on the issue of young people, mainly about the abolition of subsidies for monthly tickets to the place of education. But I would like to point out another problem that is very big and, of course, must be resolved as soon as possible. This is a problem in the field of scholarship in the Republic of Slovenia. As you all probably know, as of 2013, a new law on scholarships has entered into force and there have also been many changes in the field of Zois' scholarships. A remarkable achievement, an extraordinary achievement has changed, which, according to the Slovenian Student Organisation, shows that the number of Zois scholarships will halve in the next school or study year. All of this is because when the Act on Scholarships changed, the Regulations on the Assignment of Zois Grants did not change accordingly. Even now, the 2008 regulation is in force, and the government, especially the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, should do much more than it has done to date. But the definition of an extraordinary achievement is not clear at all. In addition, I would like to add that old, invalid, invalid criteria for the award of Zois scholarships in the new school and study year were published on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs website on 10 April this year. Many students also turned to the competent ministry, including the Public Fund for the Development of Personnel and Scholarships, due to insufficient and poor information about changes in outstanding achievements. I would like to highlight the example of students from the Slovenian Gradec Gymnasium who also sent a protest letter to the Ministry, where they also presented it. They received an offensive response, which also included a list of competitions to be considered a remarkable achievement, i.e. a quota of competitions which they can participate in to obtain or maintain Zois' scholarship. Unfortunately, the list was quite funny, incomplete and contained exclusively competitions that had already been completed. So the students have not had to participate in any competition in the last 2, 3 months, which would be counted in the quota of extraordinary achievements. At least half of all Zois' fellows will be affected, about 3,000 at least. I hope the Minister and the Government will show a measure of understanding for the resolution [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Students and students. I hope that the Minister will say this as soon as possible, so I want a written reply as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you very much. You will receive the reply in writing. The following question will be raised by Mr Tomaž Lisec, the Minister of Justice, who carries out ongoing business, Dr Senko Plitcanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! And the question I want to ask you is, How is the problem of solving military damages to Slovenia and to Slovenian exiles taking place? In this mandate, I have been to several meetings of the local committees of the Association of Evictions of Slovenia. The red thread, which is unfortunately drawn at these meetings, is when Slovenia will ask the German state the issue of reparation for war damage. I must say that when you hear people's life stories, you really ask yourself what went wrong in Slovenia, not that ideological question, but that we do not ask our good friend to Germany. Also, the documentary series, which is on our television in these weeks or days, shows all the tragic stories, not only of individuals of that time, but also of the tragic stories of Slovenia or of us as Slovenes. I am interested in the report of Germany’s material or material damage to exiles. According to some figures, according to the Association of Evictions of Slovenia, it is worth EUR 3 billion. There are all the censuses with all the grounds, but clearly there are no politicians who would have asked Germany this question. The exiles – we know how old they are, they don't care if they, especially personally, will get this refund, but they want to talk to their colleagues in Germany about these 3 billion. Because they believe that even if part of the funds remained in the country of Slovenia, at a time when we were fighting for every million when we were borrowing billions and billions abroad, these 3 billion would probably come in handy. The last attempt of this law was in 2008, so-called Sturm's Law, which somehow sought to resolve the issue from ownership, but also that law unfortunately did not fully address the issue of Germany's restitution. That this question is still in place is probably also the fact that Greece has overrun compensation from Germany in the past, but that was compensation for World War I. That's why all the exiles, as well as me, the well-respected minister, in the introduction, are interested in: When will Slovenia be asked this question, when will the exiles also receive the answer from the Slovenian Government and the Government of the Republic of Germany? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Shadow Flea.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament. I'll be very brief on that answer. Mr Lisco's question concerns two sets. The first relates to the application of compensation in relation to Germany. Secondly, if I understand correctly, with some ideas, which were in fact already at the time of the term of colleague Šturm's mandate, that, because the dialogue with Germany so far had failed, part of these obligations was taken over by the State itself, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia itself, and then financed these compensations from the budget. Did I get it right, Mr. Fox? Just the first part. Yeah. For the first part this is the case, you will probably agree with me that this dialogue between Slovenia and Germany is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Although I am prepared here, my colleagues have prepared a document for me from 2012. A similar question was raised by the Member States and then Erjavec prepared an answer. And if I sum up the essence of this answer, which dates back to 2012, it is that Slovenia has not been successful in its dialogue with Germany, that it will try, but, as it is said, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here such a question should be asked to my colleague Erjavac, as it was then in 2012, so that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or colleague Erjavec can then tell what the situation is today in relation to Germany. I suppose it's the same as 2012, so that we haven't been successful, we still haven't. But that's my guess. If this is the case, then this is my answer to the first question, in fact with the answer that I cannot answer it. I don't like this very much, this situation, but I'm afraid I can't because it's the responsibility of my colleague Erjavac. When it comes to the second idea that the country itself would pay something and that it would continue with these ideas from the time of its colleague Sturm, my colleagues also gave me a reminder that these activities were somehow stopped, in line with the public financial situation in which the country is; if we do not have money for any other things now, let alone something like this, although everyone would like to have money for everything. I think there will be a need to continue the dialogue here with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'll follow your instructions. I also believe that in these times Slovenia cannot provide the estimated EUR 3 billion or even the basic share that was calculated at that time for EUR 600 million. My question was, how did relations with Germany, because the 3 billion we are talking about, if they are probably lying somewhere – and even after some international agreements, even under German and Austrian laws – all stopped at once. Dear Minister, thank you so far. However, as long as this government is still in business, I will turn to the minister in this government – probably also in the next government, a ministry for him – to Mr Erjavce and ask him what he has done in this mandate or in the mandates to resolve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We continue with the next question raised by Mr Robert Hrovat to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who carries out the ongoing business, mag. To dean jedan, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't know if it makes sense to ask that question. But I think it's right to get to know the situation we're in, because the consequences can be catastrophic. The fact is that at the beginning of February 2014, he damaged over 9 million cubic metres of trees in Slovenian forests, of which over 3 million cubic feet [3 million cubits]. For the rehabilitation of the iguanas, the Institute of Forests has set a deadline of 15. 5. which is, however, a legal deadline, but was set on the basis of the development cycle of the basements. According to data from the Institute for Forests, only 23% of damaged igures were fully cured by the first week of May. 26% in private forests and 14% in state forests. The rate of rehabilitation of the rehabilitated forests is extremely low, particularly in the state forests. Due to the extensive delay in the rehabilitation of the igures in the Slovenian forests, secondary damage is expected to be caused by basements, which, according to pessimistic predictions, would be even a few times greater than after the acorn. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment did not have a plan of action in the event of natural disasters in forestry. Slovenia has offered assistance to neighbouring countries, in particular Austria, in the rehabilitation of forests, but the Minister has refused to help. I wonder why and why. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, led by Mr Židan, promised up to EUR 100 million of a favourable long-term loan for rehabilitation by the EIB, and this was nothing. The Minister announced immediately after the aubergines the establishment of a state-owned company to buy timber at certain minimum prices from owners, stored it and with favourable selling prices enabled the development of the Slovenian wood industry; again, it was nothing. After that, Minister Židan announced the establishment of a state company which, after concessions in the state forests, was supposed to rule over them instead of the fund. And what happened — none of this was accomplished again. Minister Židan also said immediately after the aubergines that he wanted the work in the woods to be carried out by domestic operators and the wood to be processed domestically. Is that what happened? It didn't happen. Look, all these promises made by Minister Jew were nothing. What do forest owners expect from the District Minister of the Jews? They expect help in recovery, they expect answers where to sell surplus wood, which is filled by forest roads. That's why I'm asking a minister who isn't, and I probably won't get the answer: What will he do to prevent the development of the tents? In fact, Minister Židan is responsible for the situation and will also be responsible for the situation that will arise later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you will receive the reply in writing. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Ms Katarina Hočevar, President of the Government in the role of Minister of Health, who conducts ongoing business, mag. Alenka Brother, who is excused absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! After decades of complete irregularity, alternative medicine was finally adopted in 2008 by the Medical Act and also by the Regulation, which listed medical methods and methods of treatment. This Regulation allowed for 37 different treatments. This enabled businesses to be set up in this area, new jobs and also education. The Minister of Health, Mrs Alenka Trop Skaza, in her very short career only 3 days before her resignation, changed this rule and virtually abolished two thirds of the recognised medical methods without an explanation and without arguments. That's why I want to know: Is this minister’s will and speed at which she has taken care to delete the permitted methods that have been permitted until recently? Why did the ministry do that overnight? If these methods were potentially harmful or dangerous, they should also be notified to the public. I want to know: How does the Minister or the President of the Government, who does business, view this act of his predecessor? Is it possible, in my view, to change the early decision of the former minister or to abolish it? Not me or the president of the government, we're not doctors, but we're both moms. I am sure when it comes to the health of our children, without rejecting official medicine, but as a complement to alternative medicine, which can help improve the results of treatment, many parents or our citizens are used. Finally, we can also witness the story of the boy Renee when our official medicine claims otherwise than the alternative options presented abroad. That is why I am interested in Mrs Alenka Bratusek's opinion on this subject. Even though he is in business, whether he will change or correct such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you very much. You will receive the reply in writing, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The following question will be raised by Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u153	Yeah, okay, okay, it's been 10 seconds. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u154	Here, you have a chance to ask. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u155	I'd like an oral response, not a written one. The secretary isn't, but she is. My friend Hrovat listed the things the agricultural minister promises, but he didn't do, so he didn't do anything. I have before me a document of how other ministers are very active, including the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I wanted to ask her the following. She issued the decision, including several conclusions, which were issued by 6. 5. 2014 or earlier and allocated funds to so-called veteran organisations. I compared this list to those veteran organisations that were protesting against the government. And the case is compatible with 100%. Those who demonstrated and shouted "Down With the Government of Janez Janša" are now rewarded here. She raised their funds. It has also raised funds for those who, by natural laws, I am talking about the age of 90 and over, are somehow on their way from this world. I'm talking about the League of Fighters for the values of NOB. This organisation is the only organisation that received 255,000 euros in 2014 for its operations, just as it did last year. The Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia, there I saw Mr Lipič demonstrate and scream "Down with Janša" and invite his members. From 235 thousand to 304 thousand euros. I was gonna ask her if it was a demonstration award. The North Police Veterans Association remained at the same level – 73,000 euros as it was last year. They also shouted "Down with the government of Janez Janša". Then we have, interestingly, a TIGR, a severe reduction. I'm running out of time. I'm going to move on to the most important, the Union of Societies. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] 63 to 9 thousand 600. [[…]] And interestingly, those fighters who fought for the 1991 independent Slovenia, not all of them, but in the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence there are a lot of them, but they went from 221,000 to 33 000 euros. Thirty-three thousand euros. But I didn't see them here when they yelled "Down with the government of Janez Janša." I ask the Minister to answer my question: What criteria did she use besides here officially? Let it be defined that this list is the same as those that destroyed the previous government from the point of view of the award.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much. You will receive your answer orally at the next meeting. Ms Marija Plevčak will ask questions to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who carries out ongoing business, mag. To dean jedan, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The system of calculation of service for land used by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment is laid down by the Regulation on the methodology for fixing compensation for service on water and coastal land owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which has been in force since May 2011. ARSO, on the basis of several elements, calculates the amount of service compensation that may amount to more than EUR 10 000, depending on the number of crossings and the width of the watercourse. In the case of investments in sewerage carried out by smaller municipalities, this shall apply more than 10% of the value of the whole project. With such a high compensation, the State is blocking investment projects, since municipalities are already so difficult to raise enough for their own share of investment, and this cost is not recognised as a reasonable cost. It is worth noting that in the current economic situation, municipalities have driven development in the area of municipal infrastructure and the largest beneficiaries of European funds. That is why I ask the Minister: Is it possible under the current legislation, according to the Water Act, that at a time when the majority of municipalities, due to lack of funds, would reduce the volume of investments, the service in the case of public interest would be unpaid? At least for a certain period. How it excuses the payment service to citizens who give their lands for free use. Extremely high service calculations are also made due to the calculation formula; for example, for the sewer surface the water length and 3 meters on each side of the water axis are taken into account, that is to say, 6 meters wide. I'm asking you: Are the items actually set? Would it not, for example, be sufficient to subdue a width of 1 meter? The municipalities are facing a number of complications in the construction of municipal infrastructure due to this rule, and the amount of service payments can also amount to €120,000 and more. The slowness of the resolution of matters often also puts European funds at risk. I want to know: Why is it that the solution to the complications in this area is not faster? And why have changes to the rulebook, since they have been in preparation for some time, not yet been adopted? How do you argue that the congregation must pay for the land that it has freely transferred to the country and was originally itss? I want a written answer to the question if we ever meet again; and as soon as possible, not within 30 days, because now there is nothing special about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you very much. You will receive the reply in writing, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The next question will be raised by the mag. Mr Branko Grims, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, who conducts ongoing business, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, everyone! We have read that one of the resources that the government wants to make the most of is the profit of companies that are owned by the State. One of these companies is in a very special position, this is Elektro Gorenjska. In Gorenjsk, the stomach caused tremendous damage. We know that for some time there was an extraordinary situation, even with military armoured personnel taking care of transportation along some of the main roads, even those driving to border crossings. Even the damage is not nearly removed, far from it. With repairs at all ends, the government reaction at the acorn was insufficient, inadequate, significantly too small. I also find it extremely difficult to understand that it hesitated to accept foreign aid, that for what we received it did not properly thank her for being very valuable. Perhaps even because of the desire to create an anti-European atmosphere, this assistance from the members of the European Union has not been given sufficient weight and even part of the aid has been refused. The very part that would also help to eliminate the effects of the acorn, especially in the woods, which my colleague has already talked about. However, much damage has also been caused to the electrical infrastructure necessary for the functioning of the economy to operate entrepreneurship. Elektro Gorenjska was extremely successful, last year had about €6 million in net profit and has already spent one half on repairing the damage caused by the acorn. Mr Luskovec, Director, pointed out in a recent interview with Gorenje voice that we would like to use virtually all the profits to remedy the consequences of the damage, because they are necessary and because this also creates additional infrastructure that will allow the country to gain even more through well-functioning entrepreneurship; and Elektro Gorenja is doing just that. At the same time, however, it was obvious that the remaining profits would be tried by the State to take over the July Assembly. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How will it work with respect to profits in this company? The rate of recovery due to the acorn in Gorenjska depends on the share of profits.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Just Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u161	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question! I must say that I agree with your findings and the difficult situation of electricity distribution, especially because of this year's situation caused by the ache. I also visited the area myself when electric distribution workers were correcting and correcting mistakes in extremely difficult situations, as far as time, nature of work, and the dangers they faced were concerned. I must say that there has also been damage caused by the damage and also by the rehabilitation for which the electricity companies or companies have to. distribution, as part of the infrastructure itself, is extremely high. Here I certainly understand the desire, interest and calls for electricity distribution that the State, as the majority owner of all 5 distributions, does not collect the maximum amount of dividends in order to be able to finance part of the infrastructure to be replaced or to be rehabilitated. As far as the country's support is concerned, we have in fact received support and we have offered support for the very lending of the European Investment Bank under extremely favourable conditions. However, it is necessary to say honestly and correctly that these loans will be leased by companies themselves and will then have to be invested. This is more about support mainly in terms of technical and state-of-the-art. We also need to be very clear and correct about the management of these companies. The very vertical decision-making is clear. As secretary of the department, I have absolutely no impact on what the Supervisory Board will decide in the Assembly itself and in the distribution of dividends. The court is transformed into SDH, which is the one who manages state property. It's the court that sets up the supervisory councils. The Supervisory Board is the one that manages individual companies. In just a few similar situations, we have had similar dilemmas, but I must point out here once again that I can influence the energy policy of this country as a portfolio minister, but I do not have to influence the decisions that will be taken at the assembly. This is something that is in the domain of Soda or transformation in SDH. I also know the demand or desire for distribution so that these funds will not be collected. Here I would like, but this is more of a request and an invitation on my part to the Court and the Supervisory Board to examine the needs, review the figures and then to make a reasoned response to this desire or request of the people conducting these distributions, or to be justified in detaining and using these funds for the rehabilitation of the infrastructure which has suffered serious damage to the stomach; or whether these requirements are unjustified and by the means they have, regardless of the policy of collecting dividends in this amount, may provide for the rehabilitation of this infrastructure. Soda's position here was very clear. The Court has taken the view that distributions have sufficient resources to remedy this infrastructure and that there is no need to change the dividend policy. However, I would ask them once again, given your question, to re-check these figures and to take their stand on the basis of these figures.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Here, you have a chance to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you for being so willing to call me back. I would only ask you to make a public declaration here today, to the possibility that is an alternative to this. If this call is not heard, because it is obvious that we will witness a rather absurd situation in order to be distributed to the owners at the dividend assemblies, then the same companies would be required to rent loans. Otherwise you said it was very beneficial, but these companies have their own resources, with their profits. It is perfectly logical and most beneficial for businesses to use this money for recovery, while credits can be used by those who do not have their own resources, provided that they are then able to return them in perspective, or to be used to rebuild those public infrastructures where very specific conditions of use and some other own resources are not available there. In this case, as I say, all I am asking is that you define yourself before this option. I am sure that people will already understand the will expressed by you as Minister and Government. What if the dividends are required to be paid and then these same companies will be forced to borrow loans to remedy the consequences of the greed. I personally think that such a policy is extremely inappropriate. For these companies, it would also be, I am sure, harmful, but it is clear that they can use their own resources that they have earned and currently have in the form of undistributed profits.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Just Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I must point out that this is my position and my opinion as the Minister of State. I certainly represent this in this name. The call and request may also be made only in the form of an application. You know very well that as a resortary minister, I have no direct influence on the electricity distribution companies, and whatever other form would be incorrect on my part, and there is no real basis for any of these companies to demand. I do not know exactly the specific numbers to comment on the extent to which they can use their funds for these investments, but to what extent it would be necessary to rent loans. According to the offer or numbers mentioned by the EIB in this case – we specifically speak Eurobor plus 0 % points for credits, six-year moratoriums and 25- to 30-year-old maturity. These are extremely favourable loans, which, even if we have equity, are certainly worth taking advantage of. And if I were in this role, as a good master of one company, I would take this opportunity. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the owner's wish is to be respected. Here it is necessary to appeal to the Court, which manages this property, that as a good owner manages its assets, even as a good master. If the numbers they present to me from the electrical distributions represent serious business problems and repair damage. We know very well or felt in Slovenia all, all citizens and citizens felt what it means to be 1 day, 3 days or even 1 week without electricity, what this means for the economy. This year, however, we are truly aware of the importance of this infrastructure for stability when we talk about the economy and how important it is for everyday life, how dependent we are on electricity. I hope that there will be enough wisdom on the part of both the owners and the people who manage these companies to find the right way. Most of the time, this road is somewhere in between. If the owner wants a certain part of the dividend, then it is necessary to find the right way for the wolf to be whole and full.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Since the Minister has specifically pointed out that this is his personal opinion, but we have been made publicly aware of the views of the Government, which, although he has resigned, he would suggest that this be discussed in the framework of the National Assembly and that the will of the National Assembly for the most appropriate solution is clearly expressed, which must be fast, because it is very late to address the consequences of the desire, especially in Gorenjska. This causes additional damage, which is already difficult to assess, because if pests occur and new indirect damage occurs due to intact, broken trees and everything else that accompanied this perception, then things can get very complicated. We all know that the repairs of some of the past in Gorenjska were unfortunately largely stalled. It would be extremely bad for Gorenjska's development if that were the case. As the case of Elektra Gorenjska is mentioned in the Gorenje companies, it is also available to own funds; instead, it is up to those who do not have their own resources from the profits to rent favourable loans.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. The following question will be raised by Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, who carries out the current business, Mr Sam Omerzel. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u169	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! If I first ask myself, dear Minister, are you already aware of what infrastructure means and what transport means for a country after a good year of ministry? If I give you a comparative reply that road, rail, maritime and air transport is the main scar of one country. If this scar doesn't work, then the country can't live. Dear Minister! At the time of taking over the ministerial function of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the premises of the Ministry of Infrastructure, you were absolutely unaware of this. That's what the facts say, that's what your actions or irresponsible, inappropriate, poor resource planning for your department say. And you weren't aware of the consequences that will affect your department. It is said that after a good three months of the current year, the resortary minister finds that he does not have the resources for his basic functioning, and then it is true to ask. I understand that it is possible to reduce that variable part in the ministry, whether it is a new investment where there is a possibility of a time shift or a change. Any other option. I do not understand, however, that with such a drastic reduction of funds you have intervened in the so-called fixed part of the functioning of your ministry's resources, such as the subsidisation of the transport of students and students, to forget about the provision of basic security, to forget about the basic maintenance of local and regional roads and the smooth provision of rail transport. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have pointed out this with two amendments, with two additional 50 million for this area. However, you did not listen, and today there would be no such problems. We have taken up responsibility, and the Director of the Directorate has also pointed out this, which, by means of an expert comparison, has shown that it is not possible for the Ministry to survive by such means alone. I'm asking the question: Are you aware of the consequences that have been imposed by the adoption of the budget? [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u171	Dear Vice President, thank you so much for your words! Dear Member, thank you for asking! I must say that not only today, but from the beginning, perhaps even more today, I am aware of the importance of infrastructure in Slovenia. Above all, from the point of view of economic development and how important it is for economic growth, that we still have some necessary infrastructure, and that we are talking about railways, roads or other infrastructure that we need for economic growth. Would you, or would you react differently if you had the experience I have today? I'm sure you would. What is important and crucial also when we adopted the 2014 budget, I believed that I am part of this team and that together we will save everything that is on our way. At our home Committee of the National Infrastructure Assembly, it was pointed out and clearly stated that the Ministry of Infrastructure, together with the Government, must seek the missing funds. At the time of adoption of this budget, it was clear that these resources were not sufficient for the MZIP. The exact numbers were also listed at the time. However, the method of adoption was as follows: the Ministry of Finance has given all ministries the limits in which we need to adopt the budget. Given the situation at the time, I believed in the promise to resolve the situation and to seek funds within the current year, and I also accepted it. I was sure that the word, especially at this level, meant something that said the word "agreement" and that we would also find a solution together to provide these funds. The first proposal for rail resolution, specifically from our ministry, was proposed immediately after the adoption of the budget in November 2014 at the Ministry of Finance. This was followed every month by active cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the search for solutions, but the answer regarding these funds has always been no. Believe me, the last meeting between the Minister of Finance, the President of the Government and me was an attempt to find solutions for the common table. 13. 5. I made one last effort and really asked myself whether I had done everything in my power to exhaust all the resources, all the scenarios to come up with a solution to provide the necessary means to transport students and students to school in order to resolve the railway infrastructure in the field of compulsory economic services and to provide the necessary resources for state roads, where, after the current financial situation, we cannot provide the minimum necessary to ensure security on state roads. The glands were still an additional moment, which made the situation worse in the country. And the fact that I presented the whole situation to the public was a result of exhausting all possible means of saving and finding talks at the table. However, I did not want to get into the situation of leaving my successor with such problems under the rug, so I also decided at this point to present this issue in public. I still hope that, together within this government, although in departure, we will find enough wisdom and willpower to find these means to arrange the transport of students and students, to arrange the railway infrastructure or that part of the compulsory economic services needed for the economy to function, and to find the means to ensure the legal minimum on state roads. There is no budget within the Ministry of Infrastructure and there is no room for these funds. We have studied every cent in our ministry in great detail and there are no funds within the Ministry. It is not seriously expected that we will find €115 million within the ministry with redeployments. That's something we need to look together at the level of government. I hope that they will also approach the Ministry of Finance to solve the problem, to sit together with a team from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and together find the means to do everything necessary on this infrastructure. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out. In the media, it was manipulated that Omerzel had these funds and he "pulled" them for some other items. That's absolutely not true. There's never been any of these funds at the MZIP.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u173	Dear Minister! I'm happy with your answer at work, because today, if we were in the beginning, we'd be doing something completely different. But look, so naive that we talk about hundreds of millions of dollars a word, that's not how it works in the country. And that in the department or in the rank of minister, that's not going to work. And that's not how you do it on this level. I'm talking about a very large number of stopped investments. Investments are in different stages of upgrading, upgrading or completion. For those investments that are 80% and 90% of completion, today the maintenance costs of these buildings will exceed the completion of these investments. Here, no satisfactory measures have been taken on the basis of these measures and economic damage reduced to a minimum. If we continue to see that the funds have decreased by 90% on investment maintenance, that the scope of the works in this segment has decreased significantly, I am also interested in what measures you have taken in the employees who run these projects. Because these projects are now standing. As far as I know, I am aware of the fact that the number of employees this year has not decreased despite a drastic reduction in labour volume. In this segment, I also lack additional measures in the absence of funds. So I wonder how you're doing. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] This resort, did you actually just let this thing go?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u174	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Member, for the opportunity for further clarifications. I am grateful to have the opportunity today to explain my side of the story. What I can't agree with you is that on the ministerial level, you can't do a word. And I think it's the other way around. Above all, the word "sanctuary" must be at the ministerial level. And if the minister gives the floor, there can be no more debate from here. If at this level we are unable to keep this level, that what the minister promises is true, but we are talking about relations with citizens, with our colleagues in the government or with my colleagues in Parliament, then I am seriously concerned about this country. I personally, and although I am now the Minister on my way out, I do not want such a minister as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister must put something into words and the word must be "sanctuary." I'll stand on this until I have a chance to say it. When we talk about investments in our ministry, I must say that what is financed from integral work is true. Here, investments are practically cut to a minimum. It does not, however, hold on to work linked to European funds. On projects co-financed by European funds, we have a scale of investments that we have never had in history. This was also the problem of our budget, where we are increasing the volume of investments by almost 300 million euros from European funds this year. And the investments co-financed by European funds run smoothly. I would like to stress here in particular that we all know how important it is that these investments continue smoothly. In the event that we do not close these investments, we need to be aware of all the responsibilities, if we do not complete these ongoing investments, both on state roads, the case is the Skopheloška oblasta, as on railways, the electrification of Prague-Hodoš, then as the Republic of Slovenia, we will be forced to return EUR 560 million of European funds from this title. I hope we all know what that means. And from this title, the burden and pressure on employees in our ministry and the bodies in our composition is incomparably higher than ever in history. I must say in this area that I am happy and proud that these projects are running smoothly and that we will also complete them.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u177	Dear Minister, we're talking about two segments. One is the European part where projects are running and must run to draw as much of the European funds as possible. But I'm talking about fixed work, it's about the basic functioning of the Ministry itself or about ensuring safety, subsidised transport, about the smooth work of rail transport. It was also on the question that, due to the lack of resources, certain railway links would have to be cut off. This means a withdrawal and a reduced scope of work in the field of rail transport and transport, which, on the other hand, also has economic consequences. And since such a lack of resources in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has a very important impact both on the economy and on all users in our country, I think it is high time that this is a red alarm and that there is a need to have a public hearing on this subject, as I propose.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. The following question will be raised by Mrs Eva Irgl, Minister of the Interior, who is engaged in ongoing business, Dr Gregor Virant, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! I am sorry that Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior, is not with us today to answer both my question and my fellow Members' questions. However, I would like to ask him a question or discuss the following. The Commission deals with various subjects, different social issues, particularly current issues related to respect for human rights, for petitions and for human rights and the equal opportunities I lead in the National Assembly. At one of the meetings we also considered the right to the inviolability of human life, especially in relation to the criminal behaviour of the former State Security Service, is said to be the secret political police. In its decision, the Supreme Court of 2002 also stated that the former State Security Service or the Udat was a criminal organisation. On the basis of discoveries, in particular the publicist of Mr Igor Omarza, who recently presented his new book Call U, we have been able to find that the State Security Service killed both domestic and foreign citizens until the end of the 1980s. The Human Rights Commission was recently witnessed by a witness, Mr Stedul, who survived the assassination carried out by the State Security Service. On this basis, I must say that no one has ever been responsible for all these murders or criminal offences in this country. Moreover, members of the coalition cannot even adopt the basic civilisation decisions that we are proposing at the Human Rights Commission; I am talking about the conviction of crimes and the five-year burial of the dead. I therefore ask the Minister of the Interior: Since there are investigations into this in both Austria and Germany, I wonder what the Slovenian police are doing in this regard? What did the criminal police do about the evidence of the crimes of former members of the State Security Service and the protection of the dignity of the victims and their relatives? I hope the Minister will be able to answer this question again, or we will see if we request it in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you very much. In any case, you will receive the reply in writing, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The next question will be raised by Alexander Osterman, the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, who carries out current operations, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister! In 2010, the Government adopted a Programme for Promoting Competitiveness and Development Support to the Cholep in 2011-2016 on the basis of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. These are areas where, due to internal structural problems or external impacts, the economic situation has deteriorated so that the level of registered unemployment has already reached a critical limit. 3.a The development axis means an improved connection of the Ribnik-Kočev region with Ljubljana and other cities in Slovenia. That this is an important project, we have also proven coalition partners when, even at my initiative in the coalition contract, we wrote for the first time that we will continue project 3a of the development axis after sections and content. It is important infrastructure and it is not too much to mention that Kočev has been cut off from the rest of the country for too long. Let me remind you that in 2015 the Government also heard my requests for the necessary railway connection Ljubljana-Ribnica or the continuation of the railway connection from Ribnica to Kočev. This is a project that needs about €35 million, but the government allocated €8 million in the 2015 budget, which is not enough to complete; however, it is certainly enough to take the first step in this direction. The main road Ljubljana–Kočevje, called the road of death, is of regional and indirect international importance, as it is the main link between the Kočevsko-Ribnica region and Ljubljana. There is a lot of freight traffic along this road between the Ljubljana–Kočev Industrial Centre and passenger transport due to the numerous daily migration of people. Project 3a of the development axis deals with the key actions represented by the 4 settlements. These include Škofljica, Velika Lašče, Ribnica and Kočevje, and on this route there are measures to improve the condition of the vehicle, remove bottlenecks due to geometric weaknesses, rehabilitation and improved traffic safety. While the Government had already adopted a decision in 2010 on the initiation of a State Spatial Plan for the Construction of the Railroad, something was not quite done. Since in the past several versions of the ideas for all 3 railway undertakings have been presented, I ask you, Minister-respected: How is the project of the construction of 3a development axis going all the way to Kočev? At which stage the project is located and what is the time course of its final realization. When, therefore, a final link is envisaged and will increase the security and mobility of the population from the nomadic fishing area and the link between the nomadic region and central Slovenia. I'm aware it's almost predicted. [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u183	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. The third developmental, third development axis is divided into several stages. Personally, I had the experience and opportunity to learn the problem first in connection with Ljubljana or with Škofljica itself, concerning the idea of building the Škofljica oblasta and all the activities we carried out. The financial resources and restrictions brought by the security regimes, especially on the various habitats and EUR 120 million of investment, have convinced me that, during this intermediate phase, the right path is to solve the problem of the link to the Skofljica towards reversible belts. We have also presented this solution to all the mayors. I must say that this solution was welcomed very positively by all the mayors. Given the reality of the current situation, the investment itself requires, somewhere in the ranking of €7 million, the level of investment, which I think is within these frameworks and at a time when we have really limited resources, the reality. On the other hand, traffic flow would have been resolved somewhere for the next 10 years. We have supported this solution and we are moving forward with this solution. I would also suggest and wish that my successor lead this solution forward. Both on the professional side and on the part of the local communities, it was very positive and I think that this solution was right and that the solution is in the right direction. As we look at the activities on other roads, i.e. on the bypass of Velika Lašče, Ribnica and Kočevje, the variant studies were produced in the early year 2006. Later, there were quite a few activities in this area. In particular, I would like to point out that an initiative has been prepared to adopt the State Spatial Plan for Velika Lašče and also to develop the initiative has been given to Acer. The initiative was prepared, publicised and presented to the public. At the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, we have prepared guidelines for the development of the State Spatial Plan. The initiative has been sent to interdepartmental coordination, but this initiative has been at the Ministry of Finance for five months. So on our part, as far as activity in this direction is concerned, practically everything was done. The initiative has been sent to interdepartmental coordination, but in fact it is now in other areas. I hope that, despite the fact that we are carrying out current obligations, this cross-cutting coordination will still be completed and that this initiative will go forward. As far as implementation and investment are concerned, the situation depends heavily on financial resources. Unfortunately, we know that with the new financial perspective on road infrastructure, actual funding will not be possible or very limited. Whatever we want to do on this infrastructure in connection with Škofljica, Kočev, Ribnica or the entire 3a development axis, these resources will need to be provided from an integrated budget. This will primarily be the strategic decision of the next government to what extent it will invest in the development of the third development axis. What I want is that this recognized advantage of a reversible belt solution will solve a large part of the problem. I hope this solution goes in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mrs. Osterman?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am pleased, but let me say that it is not mentioned enough that the 3rd a development axis of Ljubljana, all the way to Croatia, to Petrinje; and means the improved connection of the Kočevsko-Ribni region with Ljubljana and the Croatian motorway network; between the two legs of the fifth trans-European road corridor. And as I have already said, the solution with reversible belts is welcome, certainly I am pleased, but I am afraid, and at the same time I warn that this would not be a solution again for a few years if not even decades. And we may know that a new financial perspective is knocking on the door, and it has also been mentioned in the Pocolupje programme. Perhaps I would like to ask you again at this point, although you have answered exactly: If it were possible to carry out planned projects from the appointed programme of the Pocolupje? Do you see a hole or perspective in this program for 3.a and perhaps a railway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u186	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you very much for the word and thank you very much for the additional opportunity to explain. We, too, personally exchanged information on this topic of the Pocolpa programme. We have also been looking for a solution in this context, but as has been shown in this programme, it is crucial where and how we will provide funds. Certainly, when we talk about the programme itself, part 3a of the development axis coincides with this programme. However, it should be borne in mind that this programme is fully financed from the integrated budget. And if funds are provided for the Pocolpa programme, then in this sense I also see absolutely no problem in not taking the development axis forward under this programme. However, let us go back to that fundamental starting problem, after any programme we will continue to develop this axis – whether it will be a resolution on the national programme for the development of transport infrastructure, whether it is a development with the support of the development of the Crop – in all cases we will have to provide funding from the integrated budget, which is the matter of the next government's strategic decision, to what extent it will invest in infrastructure in Slovenia. My recommendation and my wish, according to my experience to this day, is that we are aware that it is necessary to invest in infrastructure first and then economic development and economic growth will come. And I hope that the government and those who come after me to this ministry will also be aware of this and will take this development forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The following question will be asked by Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Minister for Culture, who conducts current business, Dr Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u189	Nice greetings to the minister and the others present. My question is about Viba Film Studio. For a few months ago, the Ministry resolved Igor Prodnik's current director, despite the fact that the results were good and that there was an order that had not been established in Viba before. Perhaps the minister knows something about this, even though he has found reasons to replace Mr Prodnik. Now you have published an invitation to work for the Director of the Public Institute of Viba Film. The invitation to tender will be completed in those days. On 23 May, the deadline for the application will be 23 May. He is currently being led by V.D. Director Vojko Stopar, who took over this function in January, after Igor Prodnik, as I said, was prematurely dissolved. What escapes us is that, at the same time as the invitation to tender, the Government has put into the parliamentary procedure – so we also have a new bill in Parliament, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Audiovisual Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, where the Viba film merges with the Slovenian Film Centre. Since the Prime Minister of the Government said that the government would not be able to recruit at the time of its ongoing operations, I am interested in what that means. Do you not believe that the law will be passed?? Because once the Film Fund and Viba are joined together, a call will be needed again and leadership will have to be named again. That's why I want to know: What happens, or why not wait until the law is enforced and the invitation to tender is made public? Are there other personnel matters in your ministry and in what places?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u190	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u191	Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members. Nicely greeted! Thank you so much for asking. Let me begin by saying that I understand the concern of the honourable Member, and I also understand the discomfort, the experience, because the previous government has done this differently. However, I need to calm you down and ensure that I do not appoint a new director of Vib film or any other director 20 days before the new minister takes office, as my predecessor did, who granted Igor Prodnik a five-year term of office from 1 March 2013. Otherwise, at the Ministry of Culture, during my term of office, we published 12 public calls for the recruitment of directors of public institutions, of course as a result of past mandates, and on the basis of successfully completed tenders, we appointed 8 directors of public institutions in the field of culture. Currently there are calls for jobs of directors in Cankarjev dom, Slovenian Theatre Institute, Technical Museum, Modern Gallery and Viba Film Studio Ljubljana. As you probably know, the procedures for the recruitment of directors' posts in public institutions are much longer than they are for, for example, competitions for the recruitment of public administration posts or possibly other official posts. The longer procedure is also due to the legal provision of Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which provides that the founder must obtain the opinion of the Council before the appointment of the Director and the opinion of the Council of Experts, which takes about 30 days of legal time. However, we have introduced some important innovations at the Ministry this year regarding the transparency of the selection of directors of public institutions. In the first place, we have consistently appointed external members. External members who bring a wider understanding of the work of the public institution, who also bring about some different dynamics in the search for the best candidates, as if in these commissions, as usual, until then, only internal members have been appointed. Secondly, we have extended the call for directors. And thirdly, according to reported procedures, conversations, records, is what takes a while. This is followed by an opinion of the Council and the Council of Experts, and all of this in a way rooted in the fact that the selection procedure of the Director lasts for at least 4 months. Therefore, we also timed the Directors' announcements about 8 months earlier, before the expiry of the mandate, even if the invitation to tender failed, so that the invitation to tender could also be repeated in due time, possibly. In practice, this means, if I can illustrate to you: for example, the invitation to work for the Director of the National and University Library was published on 25 October 2013 and the new Director's term of office on 26 July 2014. The invitation to tender for the Director of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage was published on 15 November 2013 and the performance of the Director's mandate on 6 August 2014. This is a rather evasive practice of the Ministry, which has already been implemented by the former Minister, because it is only in this way that we can provide the institutions with optimal and stable management. And even in the invitation to Director Vib's film, we did nothing else. We started the procedure earlier, before the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia announced her resignation. On Tuesday, April 19, 2014, we wanted to send the invitation to the publication, and we were unable to confirm the date in the Official Journal. Then, because we are also consistently publishing tenders both on the website of the Official Journal and at the Employment Office, we decided to publish on 9 May 2014, which is, as with the other tenders, 8 months before the end of the term of office of the current perpetrator. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u193	However, I do not believe that it was necessary to publish or initiate all the procedures that you say are long-term, but if you anticipate a different organisation – the Viba Film Association and the Film Fund. And then it will also be necessary, in accordance with the law that we already have in Parliament, to tender and have the 8-month procedure again, as you said, to seek out a new director. In the meantime, what's this? He's suing the state for only a month? Because it was essentially proposed and was sought at a time when you had already foreseen a different arrangement. That's pretty unserious for me. You also said you wouldn't appoint the director of the Vibe movie a few days before you left. In fact, you're leaving or you're resigning. I wonder why, however, the invitation to do so seems unserious to the people who will apply. Like I said, the invitation will end in four days. What does this now apply to – the director of Vib's film or the director of a joint body or some new institution you are establishing by law? Are you not serious about your marriage or are you not serious about the invitation to tender?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u194	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you so much for the opportunity to explain. Viba film is, of course, a public institution that exists. SLAVC, the future new public agency, which I hope will join Viba film and the Slovenian Film Centre, is the one that is in the draft law you have Members on the table. I hope that the law will find sufficient support among Members and that the constitution of Parliament will also allow this law to see the light of the world. In fact, it is a system law that has significantly improved the position of Slovenian film and audiovisual production in the long term, which deals fully with the cinematographic chain – from author, producer, distributor, cinematographers, cinematographers to viewers – and which does so in a European comparable way, looking at the most successful European cinemas. In this respect, it is clear that there must be a successor to the tenders. When you look at the draft law, you will clearly see that with the adoption of the new Law on the Slovenian Audiovisual Centre this rate is only effective with 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, since the law has not been passed, we cannot afford not to issue an invitation to the director of Vib's film. You can call it either frivolous or serious, however, but the fact is that institutions need stable leadership and public institutions are all the more concerned. Full management of public institutions is crucial for optimal public service delivery, for the implementation of a quality programme and for ensuring the accessibility of cultural goods. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to ensure transparency of procedures and, on the other hand, sufficient time for these procedures to be carried out. I am confident that the recruitment of directors in public institutions will take place in the future in a responsible and professional manner. In view of the establishment of a new government and at the time of the constitution, it is possible for the new director of Vib to elect a new minister. That's what I'm talking about. And I was implying that I will not appoint a director a few days before the new minister takes office. However, I must also point out that we have a similar problem with the director of SNG Nova Gorica, who is also due in January. We will probably also have to publish the call, and the new director will be able to elect a new minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Jeraeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u197	Given how many months the selection of a new director lasts, given that you have a lawsuit against an early former director, I still think you should see what happens to your law. Like I said, if we were serious about him, we wouldn't be going into this procedure. Because it's going to be 1. 1. A new regime has entered into force – I am aware that this has not yet been adopted. However, you brought it to Parliament. You hope, as you yourself said, that it will be adopted and that with a new composition we will organize Slovenian cinema or film in a new way. I am not satisfied with the answer and I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you very much. In accordance with your request, we will decide tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We turn to the next question put by Mr Jožef Horvat to the Minister of Finance, who is engaged in ongoing business, Dr Uros Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, today is the second time I am addressing you as the chief guardian of the state budget. We were very surprised by the information in the middle of this month, I stress that in mid-May, one of the ministers of the government here, Mr Samo Omerzel, surprised the public at the press conference and simply told him that he was running out of money to subsidise the transport of students and students. If this were to happen sometime in November, December, somehow a person would understand or not. But since we are, I stress, in the middle of May, this information personally impressed me very much. I ask, Minister, Dr. Urosh Chufer: Does this mean that the state budget needs an immediate balance? Of course, there is an immediate question as to whether the government has the power to propose a balance to the National Assembly by way of a lack of money. One feels that young people whom we like to say that they must all have an accessible study can all study in this country, but suddenly they are running out of money for the transport subsidy we introduced in this country by law. As I come from Pomurje, which is among the less developed regions, this additional burden for families is extremely great. If they have one student, this is about 100 euros extra; if two students are in the family, they study in Ljubljana, it is 200 euros. It's a cost the family won't be able to bear. When I speak and think with you, and I want to think with you about whether there is a need for a balance, I also want to remind you of the use of European funds. On 25 March this year, the European Union Committee on the Affairs of the European Union somehow helped the government and instructed it to make a reallocation of budgetary resources, so that some cohesion projects could move forward because it was necessary to ensure domestic participation, if I may say so. Participation of the Republic of Slovenia. So, a few items, I'm sure you know them all in detail, kind of hang them. So I'm logically asking the question: Does it need a balance? What's your thinking here, your view? Thank you for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u200	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Actually, there's no need for a balance sheet. I think we'll find that money. Now we are working to look at the priorities on which there is still money – but it is not necessary for us to have it on those items by the end of the year – and we will find the right solution. As for the balance in general, I see a balance more than a defeat. What victory means to me is that, if necessary, we find additional, new measures that we can save. With the balance, things usually get more out of hand than they do, and then the goal is set at a higher level. I'm definitely not going to propose a rebalancing. The additional resources for these resources are also being sought today, so I think we will end this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u202	Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you, Minister, for that promise. Students, students and families, in fact, we all expect this to happen as soon as possible. I would ask if you could serve with this information, when will you inform the public that you have found money within the budget lines. I hope he doesn't suffer from any other program. I can appreciate if this happened to our government or any right-centred government, we would probably have full Šubičeva and Gregorčič's young protestors today. Of course, God forbid, I'm not calling for protests. I see that young people here are quite loyal to you, with Minister Omerzel, with the government – this is what we have seen all this time since the government of Alenka Bratušek. But I believe that young people are smart enough to sit at the table. But those answers must be very quick. That is why I would like you to try - here you have the opportunity - to tell the public when the government will solve this problem so that students and students as well as Slovenian families will not be concerned, especially those from less developed areas such as the Pomur region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister. There's no need, you say, for an additional answer. The next question will be asked by Mr Samo Bevk to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, who conducts ongoing business, Mr Sam Omerzel. Dear Mr Horvath, I assume you wish to make a request for a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u205	Madam Vice President, thank you so much for understanding and not objecting to my being late. But in fact, this gesture by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Urosh Cuffer, made me so amazed that I didn't react immediately. That is why I will not abuse the rules of procedure, but I will propose that I ask the Minister very politely to say - because no one is asking for a date - when this matter will be resolved. At least you'd be happy to say by the end of this week, by the end of this month. Here we are accompanied by 2 million citizens and we cannot just play. At least I'm obviously more responsible to these citizens and citizens than you are, Minister, and now I don't mind this assessment. However, I think it would be good for us to hold a debate at the meeting of the National Assembly because I do not trust and I have lost hope that this problem will be resolved solidly. This is permitted by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, second paragraph. I believe there will be another meeting of the National Assembly. I'm afraid this problem won't be solved until that session. Our young, students and students aren't just going to leave them somewhere near a road ditch, and to tell them, look, when you get the answer, you get it, but if you don't get it, you don't get it. That way we can't talk. Now I am extremely ill-willed that the government cannot find us, on the one hand, even the President, that there will be no problem, I don't know, 115 million is nothing, or as much as we need to subsidise student and student transport. Now we just can't get an answer. That is, when he does, he will – but if he doesn't, he won't. This is the attitude towards citizens who are rude. He's rude, and I'm putting him through a lot of trouble here.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Since we went a little bit through the Rules of Procedure, this is usually the procedure: asking a question, answering the question, making a request for a reply to the reply and then asking the Minister for a discussion. I've already predicted Mr. Bevik. However, I am gradually giving the Minister a brief answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u207	I'm sorry, I thought in my first answer I was clear. But in this area, I'm measuring time in hours, as I said, I'm counting on this to be completed in the course of today, and we're going to let you know in the course of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Bevk has the floor to ask Minister Sam Omerzel a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A respected choir! In the country we currently have 16 exam centres and 9 or 10 places outside where driving exams can be conducted. According to the new report, the number of examination centres and places in which driving examinations are conducted is expected to decrease to 11. The rules on exam centres are the responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, and I therefore refer this question to Mr Omerzel. We can understand the professional and cost-saving reasons for the planned change, which is substantively prepared by the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, but it is difficult to understand the network or geographical distribution of exam centres. In central Slovenia we have a very large number of exam centres in small territory, which cover a large number of people such as Ljubljana, Domžale and Kranj. There's more than one such density in the country. All these cities are characterised by small distances and also have good transport connections and a dense network of public transport assets. On the other hand, we have, on a new proposal, even the Soča and the Idrija-Churk region without an exam centre. If we can land on the criteria of miles, it is difficult to overlook the configuration of the terrain and the condition of the roads in this area, which prolongs the journey to the nearest test centre and also encourages. Not to mention public transport, that the candidate may be brought to such an examination centre. The situation is similar in Kočevska. Young people may be able to take a driving test at the school site, and everyone else will have to take a very long drive to the exam centres. Let me just say the information – from Bovec to Nova Gorica is 72 kilometers, from Trenta even 100 kilometers in one direction, from Baska Grapa also, those who will do exams in the municipalities of Idria and Cerkno will be affected. In fact, many of these places do not have good transport connections, bus connections are bad to say that there is no railway connection. You're gonna have to hire someone to take you to this exam center. The question is: Why are the centers so scattered? Will the Ministry re-examine the test centres before issuing the regulation and perhaps cover the areas which do not have centres or re-position the test centres? However, it is certainly necessary to provide for the Soot and Idrian-Churque region in a way such as this [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u210	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u211	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. As you yourself stated, the Agency for Transport Safety is the one who prepares the rules and also takes care of all activities related to driving schools and conducting examinations. With regard to the reasons – why even an initiative, an initiative to adopt this Regulation. In fact, we have 2 important reasons, or 2 roofing content, why this was going in this direction. One is definitely a rationalisation of business. In all these years, we have reduced the number of employees by 15%. I think it is right that in these difficult times, as far as finance is concerned, we also have a rational view of all activities in this area. The second reason, however, is the professional basis. Some of the requirements, the criteria that test centres must meet, are also related to the transposition of European directives, where, in fact, due to the recognition of driving examinations across Europe and beyond, for example, we have an agreement with Japan on mutual recognition of examinations, these criteria are a little sharper; not only in the examination, but also in the conditions for carrying out this examination. However, I have to say, when we go to the number in which the regulation was being prepared, in the centres, so where the exam centres are, in the seat, the exams will still be possible. Locations outside the exam centres from the previous 10 to 3, all of this is due to the rationalisation of the staff we have. If we look at Idria in particular, where we looked at the numbers, we have fewer than 200 people on an annual basis who perform the exam, which means on average less than one person per day. And on the basis of this and the professional criteria, such as the traffic crossing, the two lanes, including the highway, on the basis of which criteria were then set. It is important to point out that they will still be able to carry out driving or education in schools and part of the practical conduct of the examination in their home place, and certainly to carry out the examination then in that place as it was now proposed. However, regardless of this and our debate on this issue, I would suggest that, in view of the problem you have presented and also with regard to the configuration of the field itself – I also understand that the problem of public transport of all those performing the exams to the locations themselves is that sometimes 50 to 70 kilometers represents an hour and a half to two hours of one-way travel – I would suggest that either in your task force or in our ministry we meet with the entire team of the Transport Safety Agency. The one who suggested the entire configuration and proposal of the centre to remain. These additional moments are being rethought, and we may see that there is a need for correction, and we will find the right solution to satisfy and help people first, so that they can really get to the exam centers in normal time frames.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u212	Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I also thank the Minister, in particular for this initiative, for discussing how to organise this and perhaps to change it. This statistics, that is only one per day, of course the Agency says so, but that is not true. They are tested every 14 days and 10 candidates are recruited. If they were tested for 3 or 4 weeks, there could be more of these candidates, so that this argument does not drink water. We have also looked at the statistics of the worst traffic accidents, and northern Primorska has at least fatal accidents from all regions in Slovenia. This is the data for 2013, which says that we are good drivers in this area. It is not a quality to perform these driving examinations. There is also some truth to love – who is able to drive from Logatco, Idrija, and Tolmina to Bovec is certainly a good driver. [[…]] But it is true that an hour of driving can also be done on the highway, and I did it myself decades ago when I was taking my driving test. Minister, I accept your initiative to meet with representatives of the Agency and try to arrange those white foxes that are on the map of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. Commissioner, I thank you for this initiative and I am pleased that you have also taken the initiative to visit the people from the Transport Safety Agency who have been preparing this. I am convinced that this regulation is prepared in this direction, that we will find a common point both on one side of the professional basis and on the other hand, to approach, to take one step closer to people and to help them solve the problem that you have presented to me. I am sure, I will also give my own support if good suggestions are made on how to base an additional location with the right arguments, we will absolutely support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u216	Thank you very much. In advance, we continue with the question posed by the Member States that I should say to the recording of the magnetogram that, at the request of Mr Jožef Horvat, he will decide, in the context of the votes, on the question put by the Member State or Minister Chufer's reply tomorrow. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, who is currently engaged in ongoing business, Dr Jernej Pical, who has been officially absent since 6 p.m. today. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! Domestic consciousness, patriotism, the high identity of belonging to the state are values that every nation tries to develop in its citizens. Citizens acquire them or do not obtain them in the family and educational process. Unfortunately, in Slovenia patriotism is often in the media and in a significant part of leftist intellectuals, even in the teaching process, characterized as a pre-modern value and contempt. The consequences of lack of patriotism and national awareness are also seen by our diplomats. Ambassador Booth, in the experience of the catastrophic floods in Serbia, says, quote from today's Evening: "As Slovenian Ambassador, I can only wish that at least half as much national awareness or positive thoughts about my country as Serbs could overcome Slovenians." You, Minister, recognize the shortcomings in home education when you distributed the book of Yugoslavia to all students of the first years of high school. Last October you answered the question of Ambassador Jerajeva in writing, quote, "Development and promotion of national consciousness is not one of the objectives of the project Rastim with the book." Think about it. I also cite one consequence of low civic education, which is low electoral participation in Slovenia. The Honourable Minister. Together with the relatives of Minister Lukšić and the party's Februarys, you were the contractor of a wasteful project worth €1 million 400 000 – Civil education renewal. That's why I'm asking you: What are the changes in the curriculums of subjects developing domestic and patriotic consciousness in school curricula 2014/2015. I ask whether you anticipate changes, or whether the ideological interest of the left will once again prevail after the weakest possible Slovenian citizen and patriotic consciousness. And you will again write that the development and promotion of national consciousness is not the goal of the educational and educational process. I hope this isn't the way it ended. However, from the media, we do not know from your notice whether you are predicting positive movements. And this is not only in the subject of Civil and Homeland Education and Ethics, but also in the case of Slovenian, history and all subjects that shape patriotic consciousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Since Dr Jernej Pikalo is absent today from 16:00 p.m., as previously said, Mr Jožef Jerovšek, the Minister will answer you at the next meeting in response to parliamentary questions. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the question of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, who carries out the current business, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! In all three subsidiaries of Holdinga Slovenian Power Plants, Drava power plants Maribor, Thermoelectric power plants Šostanj and Sočke Power Plants, they recently took note of the amendment of the Act of Establishment which abolished the Supervisory Councils and restricted the powers of directors. They point out that it is an attempt to centralise HSE and to exclude workers' representatives from participating in the management of these companies. 12. 5. 2014 The coordination of mayors of the problem area Maribor with a wider environment prepared a statement and I will quote it. "Declaration of the extended meeting of the coordination of mayors, Members and economies of the problem area Maribor with a wider environment. The extensive coordination of mayors, which includes mayors of the problem area Maribor with a wider environment, members of the problem area, representatives of the economy, the Styria Chamber of Commerce, the Maribor Chamber of Commerce and representatives of the Maribor Development Agency and the Regional Development Agency for the Korean Region, shall be held at its 6th session of 12. 5. 2014 presented the following position. The Maribor Drava Power Plants are an important economic and development entity in the region, also representing one of the state-level carrier pillars. The centralisation of the decision, which was last reflected in the events of the previous week, the abolition of all supervisory boards in the companies of Holdinga Slovenski Power Plants, requires a clear and decisive requirement for a different treatment of the Drava power plants Maribor in the future. The increased coordination of mayors, together with MEPs and representatives of the economy, strongly protest the abolition of supervisory councils in power stations or such interventions at the Drava power plant Maribor. To the extent that the State does not take into account the legitimate interests or needs of the entire region and enable the development of the potentials of energy in the Koror and Podrav region, actors in both regions will be forced to demand the exclusion of the Maribor Drava Power Plants from the HSE." So I ask you, Mr. Secretary, do you support the consolidation of HSE in this way? If so, why. What is your position on the possible sale of Drava power plants Maribor and Sočke power plants Nova Gorica?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u220	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u221	Dear Vice President, thank you so much for your words! Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. And I will begin with the answer to the last question raised, by stressing that this is my personal opinion, and I ask you to understand it as well. After everything I've seen in Slovenian energy and as far as I know how to function and function within the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, I absolutely do not support the sale of Drava Power Plants and absolutely do not support the sale of Sokske Power Plants. But once again, that's my personal opinion. When we are talking about the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, it is important that we are aware that energy is not the time they used to be. The periods of fat cows have also passed in energy. If we look at the state of energy at the European level right now, the very price of electricity is so low that it does not support the investment and development cycle. In other words, the price in the range between €35 and €40 per megawatt-hour is a price that does not allow for the investment cycle in production activities. And that is something that will surely have to change in Europe. At the moment, the whole of Europe, the whole energy policy in this area is facing extraordinary challenges and very difficult decisions on how European energy will go forward in order to be competitive, particularly in relation to Russian and American energy. We must be aware that today the economy in America is somewhere 30% cheaper to get electricity than we are getting in Europe. As a result, this also means an uncompetitive European economy. Here we will all be together – Slovenia, as part of Europe, must take steps to provide electricity that will enable a competitive economy within Europe. If we go back to Holding, in this spirit should Holding Slovenian Power Plants on the path of rationalising their business. There is no doubt here, and here I absolutely support rationalisation. But if this is the way the HSE administration has chosen, it does, then I think it would be unfair for me to judge. You know very well what the verticals of decision are. The Court is the one who sets up the Supervisory Board, and the Court is the one to whom Holding the Slovenian Power Plants has to answer. I hope that, as a representative of the owner, with Sodom, the way in which rationalisation is carried out within the holding of the Slovenian Power Plants. And once again, I absolutely support the rationalisation of the Slovenian Power Plants Holding, because we have within us an investment in TES, Velenje Coal Coal, Drava Power Plants, which work extremely well, the Soške power plants, hydro power plants, that is, the investment in Central Savo is within Holding. I stress once again the rationalisation of the Holding – absolutely yes. I wouldn't want to go into detail and rationalization. I hope that it is coordinated with what the Holding Board is doing, with the Court's administration and with the Supervisory Board. But I'm sure they'll find a common ground together to agree on what the right path is. Trade unions and workers within the Slovenian Power Plants Holding will also understand that this is a necessary route. Those periods when investments were made in energy, when we had periods when the price of electricity enabled investment cycles, are not at this point in time, and so it is also necessary to adjust the business in energy itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u222	Here you go, Mr. Marijan Pojbich. That's enough. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question that Mr Branko Kurnjek will put to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who is running business, mag. To dean jedan, who is officially absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mag. On account of his absence, I would like to request a written answer to my question. I am aware that a new Regulation on municipal waste is being prepared. Its second paragraph of Article 4 regulates the retail purchase of waste paper and paperboard and scrap metal, which provides that the agriculture of this type of waste may also be granted to a collector other than the public service of municipal waste treatment. The same Regulation requires, in Articles 11 and 14, the public service provider to establish the necessary infrastructure for separate collection of waste. This means to provide a collection room for separate paper and paperboard coverage, a collection centre for separate metal capture, to provide adequate acquisition and all necessary infrastructure in the collection centre. All of this must be provided by the public service provider – the collection centres and the collection centres remain empty as the proposed second paragraph of Article 4 allows the transmission of these waste to other collectors. This also diverts the revenue from the benefit of waste from public service providers to other collectors. In addition to the loss of income to municipal companies, the proposed solution has a negative impact on the prices of municipal services paid by our households. According to the methodology for the pricing of municipal services, the sale of beneficial waste also affects the price. Since income from this sale is not or could be higher, households pay a higher price as a result. As a result of this effect, the proposed solution is also in line with the previous year's government operational programme on municipal waste management, cited in paragraph 6.6 on page 57, and I quote: "If the estimated costs of municipal waste management also take into account the benefits of secondary raw materials obtained, the overall economic effects of municipal waste management are reduced by around EUR 100 per tonne in the year, which is less than the overall economic effects of municipal waste management in the starting year 2011." At the time, it was 125 euros per tonne. "The time course of all economic effects of municipal waste management is shown in the diagram. In calculating the total economic effects of municipal waste management, the following values of secondary raw materials obtained by separate collection of municipal waste for recycling are taken into account." It's also stated, exactly what. I'm asking the minister: After finalising the content of the Municipal Waste Regulation, will it deal more appropriately and in more detail with the retail purchase of useful municipal waste in non-public service collectors? Whether the provisions of the Regulation will be aligned with the government's operational programme on municipal waste management [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in 2014? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Branko Kurnjek. According to your request, the Minister of Mag will be yours. Dejan Jeddan provided a written answer. Mr Zvonko Černač will raise an oral question to the Minister of Justice, who conducts ongoing business, Dr Senko Plitcanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u225	Dear Minister, greetings to everyone else present. Recently, data were published on the survey carried out at European Union level, which discusses people's confidence in justice systems in their countries. Slovenia has also landed in the last place according to this indicator. This research is the lowest level of confidence in justice in Slovenia among all Member States. The justice system in Slovenia is entrusted with only a bad quarter, and almost three quarters and 73% of people do not trust the justice system in Slovenia. Trust in the justice system is not due to its inefficiency, but mainly because of its unpredictable and unconstant case law when there is no de jure norm, but it is from the name of the judge or judge. the judge and the defendant's name depend on what the judgment will be. In judgment I Ips 153/2012, the Supreme Court of Justice held on 1. 3. In 2012, which annulled a judgment, I quote: "Without the necessary justification, it is clear that the defendant can only defend himself against the allegations that he has committed a specific act, not that he committed an undetermined day against unidentified persons in an undetermined manner, and so on, a crime." Judgments of the Supreme Court form part of the legal order in the Republic of Slovenia. This judgment, if it has already disregarded basic, legal and general human standards, should, in its decision, respect — and it is not — the court that passed judgment on an act that would happen in an undetermined place, in an undetermined way, and so on, without evidence. Not only was this judgment not respected or respected by the Court of First Instance, but the Court of Appeal, which set a new standard: trial and conviction without evidence, did the same. It's the most outstanding case, but it's not the only one yet. On the one hand, we are testifying to trials and convictions without evidence, prosecution of priests, in 2014 at the heart of the European Union, professors, former ministers, as a rule, members of a political party, because of public statements and public but justified criticisms by state authorities. So we are witnessing the eclectic abuses of justice and political processes that we would have been ashamed of 25 years ago, not until today. On the other hand, we are witnessing a founding court record, a delay in Taiwan's trials, multiple-paid bankruptcy administrators, a squabble between them and bankruptcy judges, a lengthy trial and so on. So the rule of law is in a cramp, it is not working, so young people are leaving, even fleeing, the economy is limping, the country is slowly but steadily sinking. Most of the responsibility for such a situation lies with the Government. Specifically for justice in the Minister responsible and responsible for justice. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: What do you think is behind the public's mistrust in the independence of the judiciary? What is the reason why Slovenia is the last place under this criterion and who is responsible for such a situation?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u226	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Blackach! First of all, I would like to say that both the previous and the current government coalition, although composed differently, have identified the same problems in the field of justice. If you remember, I'm actually saying the same thing all the time and I'm taking some steps that I've already set up in the first government I've been in. First of all, as to what my opinion is, why the level of confidence in Slovenian justice is generally, in this context especially for the judiciary, so low. I think one of the main reasons has to do with the functioning of the judiciary so far. I think of all the years after the independence of the judiciary, when the backlogs have accumulated, when the trials have been extended and practical nothing has been done – I speak from the executive branch and the legislative branch of power, each within its jurisdiction – to change this situation. If I illustrate this in concrete terms; when I took up the role of Minister of Justice and Public Administration in the government in which we sat together and was then critical to the judiciary – then only to the courts, not to the rest of the judiciary, I am referring here to the State Prosecutor's Office, because it was not in my jurisdiction at the time, or it was under the authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs – everyone wondered how the Minister of Justice criticized the judiciary, but if the Minister of Justice had to defend the judiciary. And this is some proof of the situation that was before I took office; obviously no one criticized the judiciary. Now I'm not talking about criticism just because someone seems to be fine with criticism, but you have to criticize what's not good. And what's not good, then you can fix where you can, but first you have to diagnose the problem. If the diagnosis is poor, this means criticism in a particular case, then criticism must be expressed. I want to say, if I continue, why is the level of confidence our people have in the judiciary and in other parts of the judiciary so low. I think this is one of the main reasons why the judiciary in the past has been very ineffective, slow and, as we all know, slow justice is not a right. If we want a natural person, a citizen, a citizen or a company to come to its right, then the judiciary must act quickly. Of course, this is just one aspect of the functioning of the judiciary — speed, efficiency. The second is substantive, the judiciary has to be, and other parts of the judiciary, qualitative, but probably everyone sitting or sitting in this Chamber is not in charge and must not be in charge of the branch of power. Nowhere in regulated democracies is it necessary to go into the content of judgments, into the content of judicial decisions; in general, therefore, since it is a separate branch of government, decisions of this branch must be respected as they are in reverse. However, if there were some serious deviations, when it came to the quality issue that would have been identified in some higher cases, even in the Constitutional Court, let's say if we were talking about Slovenian authorities, or if we were talking about European institutions – I think about the European Court of Human Rights – which would point to some systemic problems in the Slovenian judiciary and other parts of the judiciary, then this is, of course, another thing – I'm still talking about quality, content – and then this is another thing, and then the legislative body as well as the government should react to it. If you are monitoring - and I believe you are doing this - the information that the European Union publishes regarding the situation in the Slovenian judiciary, then you will find that, since I have been in this office, this assessment, which the European Commission or its institutions, its authorities have given to the Slovenian judiciary, has improved considerably. It is true, however, that they also assess only one aspect of the functioning of the judiciary, which is also the only correct one, and this is an issue of efficiency, of speed. Thus, in recent years, we have achieved some of the shifts, both through legislative changes that I can say more about, as well as the fact that the judiciary has only come to realize to a considerable extent that it will have to make a radical change in its functioning and the crown somehow, or proof of their knowledge that it is so, is the commitment that the Government and the judiciary have made just before the time and in which they have committed themselves to change many things within their respective powers. More on, however, next [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u228	Here you go, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have not received an essential answer now, who you think is responsible for this situation. Do you not feel that you, as Minister of Justice, are the first to be responsible for this statistics adopted at the level of an independent institution at the level of the European Union and which speaks of Slovenia as the last place under this criterion and that confidence in justice is at the critical point. Even lower than confidence in the government that's leaving. It sounds like a political option. So, the data is alarming. We're talking about trust, we're talking about responsibility. We are talking about confidence in justice, which is almost gone; it is no longer due to a number of hard-line files against dedicated tycoons who are obsolete, it is no longer due to lengthy judicial proceedings, it is no longer due to a trial without evidence. It is no longer because people are waiting too long or not waiting for it, and it is no longer because people are watching the prosecutor who is supposed to be chasing a painter, Cekuto, in a particular case, for half a million euros about to get from Patria, walking around the city. Do you believe that this gives people confidence in the independence of justice and the independence of the judiciary? Does it inspire confidence in the independence of the judiciary of Comrade Vesna Pavlič Pivk, the president of the District Court, the court which was convicted at first instance without evidence, with the totalitarian symbols of the former state, which is no longer there? Do you believe that these actions by the judicial representatives, who should comply with a number of commitments, are also in line with the commitments of the Bordeaux Declaration, which speaks of judges and prosecutors as having to be of sound integrity, that as the most important actors in the judicial system, they must always maintain the honour and dignity of their profession and behave appropriately in all circumstances? Do you think that these actions — and many others — are not possible to show them all — inspire confidence in justice? Why didn't you do anything to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u230	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you. Well, let me go on right here, colleague Chernač; therefore, what is the responsibility of the Minister for Justice in general and my particular responsibility. Now, you've put thesis that I haven't done anything to remedy the situation in Slovenian justice, the judiciary, the state's attorney's office. I have to object to this, but I think I have done quite a lot, a lot of legislative matters have been adopted, and you know that the Ministry of Justice cannot do anything more than that, at least if we are talking about the judiciary as a key part of the judiciary, that is to say, to the judiciary as an autonomous branch of government. This is where it goes, for God's sake, for the sole authority that most of this business has to do! So if you're asking me for responsibility why our people's trust in the judiciary is so low, the primary responsibility here at the trial itself. It is the one who needs to change his behavior and, as I said earlier, it is changing them. Seriously, I wish this was happening faster, but it's happening at the speed that it's at. I don't see what I could do, but as a minister, as a government, and not as a legislative body, could do anything else than amend legislation, but adopt such laws as will be the issue of responsibility for a fast enough trial, for other issues related to the functioning of the judiciary, to deal more sharply than before, or for some other issue to be dealt with differently. But more than that, he can't and the government can't make a legislative body, and then the judiciary just has to do it. And once again, in these last two, three years, the judiciary has taken some important steps when it comes to one of the key issues that has made our people's confidence in the judiciary so low, this is a question of speed. Statistical data show that on average – I now speak generally for all types of judicial proceedings, as well as all types of judicial backlogs – and that judicial proceedings and judicial backlogs have on average decreased by 20 to 30 % in the last three years, but nothing in the last 20 years, but before 20 years everything has only been extended. That's kind of the result, but I believe our people don't feel it. I know when I'm walking around Slovenia, and I'm also going to tell this statistical information that I'm just here to tell you, even though I'm having a hard time with language, because it's just some statistics -- 20 to 30% seems like a lot, and it's true, but most people still don't feel it on their own, so you have to keep doing this; but those who have to go on with it are only the judiciary. What is mine, of course, I intended to continue with the legislative changes, I have a number of them ready or in the plan, if we continue this mandate, we will unfortunately not, and will have to do so by the one who will succeed me in the role of Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Would you like Mr. Tinker Bell? Request for a debate. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I propose that a debate be held on this lack of the Minister's response to the situation in the judiciary, which on the one hand is flawed, and on the other hand is not the most realistic or real. If that were the case, then we do not need the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice in this country. The Minister of Justice has been carrying out this function for almost two and a half years with a minor interruption and nothing has been machined in the area of improving the justice system; on the contrary, the situation has deteriorated. The Minister should also speak to the public when it comes to deviations when it comes to infringements of documents that have been adopted or at the level of the National Assembly, the Government or at the level of the European institutions. He did not come forward in the case where the prosecutor, who is prosecuting the defendant, walked with him on the street, raising doubts about the impartiality of the prosecution; there was no proposal to dismiss this prosecutor; there was no proposal to dismiss the Attorney General because he did not meet the conditions or appointment because he violated human rights in the previous system when he persecuted the criminal priest for the cross; there was no response in the case that the photograph of Comrade Vesna Pavlič Pivk, the President of the District Court, went to the totalitarian symbols – a photograph for which, I am sure, in the early 1990s, lost the post he was performing, and so it should also be today. In our legislation, we have mechanisms for the appointment and resolution of those who have a permanent judicial mandate. If the situation in our judiciary were really that good, then surely there would be no confidence in the justice system at the lowest point so far; at the lowest point so far, we are last in all European Union countries. 73% of the people do not trust the justice system, for example in the neighbouring Republic of Austria they are trusted by 78%, only 20% are those who do not trust this system. The picture's upside down. Our northern neighbour, with whom we share some of the traditional values of the past, has a completely reversed situation, probably because these things were settled in time, or because we did not arrange what they did in Germany, when the judges in Eastern Germany were simply resolved at the time. In Slovenia, I don't remember being dismissed by one judge, I don't remember that I think that there were one-handed prosecutors, but the situation is poor, we are spending money significantly more than in the European Union for the functioning of the justice system, and its effectiveness is essential under average. [[…]] The Minister responsible should do something to change this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you very much. In accordance with your request for a debate on the answer to your oral question, Mr Cernač, we will decide tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Jože Tanko will ask the question of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, who carries out the current business, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. Last autumn, the Government came in with a budget package for 2014 and 2015 and on the management asset item, the current maintenance of roads significantly reduced the items in both years and at about the same level the remaining investment maintenance items and the construction of state roads. In the cumulative, both items were subject to a reduction of approximately 30% in the individual year. Now this means that in some ways the Government itself has deliberately waived measures on the state road network. As a member group, we have assessed that action must be taken in this work, so for 2014 and 2015 we have proposed an amendment to the budgets, but this amendment, amounting to fifty million for each year, has not been adopted. In some ways, this poses major problems, especially because measures on the transport national road network are not carried out in accordance with dynamics, further problems have arisen in connection with certain hazardous sections and also bridges, and certain restrictions have been imposed on both transport, one-way transport and loading. I ask the minister: Why did he agree to such a large reduction in these two items if we know and monitor that the money is in the country's accounts or on the country's deposits? There was more than enough of him then and there is now. By agreeing to this, you have also, in fact, agreed to all the problems that arise from the maintenance and renewal of the road network. I'm also interested in: After the budgets were adopted, what did you propose and when would these traffic jams and dangerous sections that have emerged be remedied? What have also been proposed in terms not only of these measures within the Ministry, but also of the change in individual budget lines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u237	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question! What you are saying regarding the adoption of the 2014 budget is true. The Ministry of Finance has given us all the limits within which we have to plan spending for 2014. It has also been stated at our home committee in the National Assembly that, at the time of the adoption of the 2014 budgets, we need to find funds within the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Government that have not been sufficiently provided for 2014. Was I politically naive then? Today the answer is yes. At the time of the adoption of the 2014 budget, I believed, because when we adopted the budget and redistributed the funds allocated to us, we had an agreement within the Ministry of Finance that, during 2014, we would find these funds, put ourselves into the frameworks that were assigned to us, and that, over the course of the year, we would then find and redistribute these funds together for the entire package of missing funds within our budget. It is important and important to be aware that when we talk about the package and the number that I also published publicly at the press conference, €115 million – we are talking about the whole responsibility package within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. Our Ministry is responsible within the Directorate of Transport for subsidising the transport of students and students to schools, for compulsory public economic services on railway infrastructure. The Republic of Slovenia is the direct owner of the railway infrastructure and the Slovenian Railways provide only maintenance and passenger transport services for the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, on the state roads you mention, in particular in terms of the minimum we need to ensure the legal minimum on state roads. After the adoption of the budget at the Ministry, we immediately joined the search for solutions and proposals to the Ministry of Finance, desiring that the joint proposals would then be passed on to the Government and adopted as the Government. Since you are asking me about specific activities, I will also give chronologically some very specific examples. The first thing we approached after the budget was the resolution of funding under the Slovenian Railways. In November 2013 we prepared the Law on Slovenian Railways, where we wanted Slovenian debt to Slovenian Railways worth 134 million euros to ensure that Slovenian Railways are able to reprogram their credits and that they are at the same time available for claims to the Republic of Slovenia. This was the first proposal to solve the entire package of financial problems or deficits within our budget. The bill was sent to the Ministry of Finance, where, unfortunately, it was not coordinated or they did not want to support it, and so it did not complain to the Government. The next step we took, one of the steps in this phase of the search for solutions, was taken by 19. 3. when we proposed an entire package of materials on the Committee on the Economy and the Government. Here we talked about the whole problem of solving everything I've said so far, plus the situation that happened to us with the pharynx. Similarly, this whole material was withdrawn from the procedure and there was no treatment in the Government. We've repeated the same situation as the 18th. 4. and similarly repeat the entire material and try to give concrete solutions to the Government with proposals 22. 4. 6. 5. We have finally achieved, despite the fact that the material was not coordinated on the Committee on the Economy to move on to the Government. The Minister of Finance also agreed to move forward, but at the request of the President of the Government at the government meeting, this material was withdrawn and we were unable to treat it as a Government at that time. Tuesday, 13. 5. I made one last attempt to resolve the whole table issue in the context of the Finance Minister, President of the Government and myself. Because, despite that, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We have not been successful in finding solutions to the common table, I have decided on a press conference and a presentation of the public issue. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that. I must conclude that our Group of Members was not naive in its consideration of the budget. You know that we have tabled an amendment for each year and for each area of 50 million for both the railway and the transport sector for 2014 and 2015. Surprisingly, despite all these warnings, the Government has not attracted our amendments. And worse still, the Members of the coalition of our amendments did not support it. Neither member of the coalition voted in favour of our amendments. The problem we're talking about is big. I limited myself here to the infrastructure part, not the subsidisation. What has been explained is that it will try to integrate with some other mechanisms and solutions — as you can see — is impossible. If the money is not on the budget item, the money is usually not there and cannot be complemented with other resources. Surprisingly, there is a lot of money in the budget system of the Republic of Slovenia, because the country has also borrowed a lot of money, a lot of it is inactive, and the Minister for Finance, who sits in front of you, has talked about "buffers", which are still full for how many months. However, the government cannot provide or does not wish to provide emergency measures on the railways, emergency measures on the roads. This, I believe, is a problem, and I expect, Mr Minister, regardless of the fact that the mandates just expire, that you will actively do everything necessary to solve the problems on the roads and on the railways. I hope you've got some extra program ahead of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u240	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u241	Thank you very much for the word and thank you very much for this additional reflection on the issue also in a broader sense. Once again, before I took a step and presented this issue to the public, I asked myself first whether I had taken all the necessary steps to make within this team, which part I had been in this good year, or whether I had really taken all the steps to find a solution. And unfortunately, the answer to me myself was that I really took all the steps and that it was simply necessary to take this path forward, especially in order that the minister who would come after me to this ministry would not inherit this 115- and 100-million-dollar hole. Despite the fact that we're the government on the move, I want to solve this problem. As you yourself have found, the parent committee has also written down the exact figures when adopting the budget, in which the funds are in short supply, and I must say that I have been politically naive. The answer to that is certainly yes. But once again, I will also stand on this function, in my private life, the word in life must mean something. Especially the minister. And once again, as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I do not want to have ministers and ministers who do not keep their word. If we had an agreement to solve this problem, we should stick to it. No matter what I do, I would do the same again in my life, and even because of this situation in my life, I will not lose confidence in the word of man. I will continue to do so, but the fact is that with these experiences I have, I would definitely react differently in similar situations and would probably have pointed out this issue much earlier. However, regardless of which category they belong to, I still hope and believe that we will be able to make enough wisdom as a team on our way out, that together we will find a way to provide funding for the subsidisation of students and students by the end of 2014, to ensure that Slovenian railways and infrastructure function normally, that support for the development of the Slovenian economy – in the event of the collapse of the Slovenian railways as well – and that we will be able to find sufficient wisdom and power to provide at least a legal minimum for the state roads and to ensure that the most urgent infrastructure parts of the state roads are represented. I still have that hope.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jože Tanko. Request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. In this work, the Minister answered my questions correctly. However, I must conclude that there is a great deal of disagreement as to the needs of the Ministry and the activities of the Ministry and between what the Government decides and acts and is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I propose that the Minister's response and in relation to the problems he has mentioned in the functioning of the Government at this meeting be decided to hold a debate on the Minister's response, in particular in order to influence the government's departure, in view of the available large financial resources available to the Government, to ensure transfers to items that are urgently needed at this time. This is both a maintenance of transport infrastructure, some other matters relating to the work of the Ministry relating to social measures, such as the subsidy for the transport of students and students. I don't think there's any need to block this debate. It is imperative, in view of all the problems that the Minister has said, that is to say, two, three months of efforts, and there has been no progress on this issue, that Members, with their decisions, their votes, we also allow our debate what can be done at this moment in view of what we have heard a few days ago at a business conference. If the country has €4.5 billion in deposits and we have difficulties with providing basic issues in specific areas, then there is a need for Members to be done, even if we have received first-hand information, that there is a major conflict within government departments and also views of individual areas. I therefore request that we hold a debate on the Minister's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u244	Thank you very much. In line with your proposal, Mr Jože Tanko, the request for a debate on the Minister's response, we will decide tomorrow in the context of the votes. Mag. Stanko Stepišnik will ask the Minister of Finance Dr. Uroš Cufer, who is here today with us, present, and Minister of Economic Development and Technology, who is conducting ongoing business, Mr Method Dragonji, who is now officially absent. Here you go, mag. Stepan.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! My question is above all: How can this credit crunch be addressed to businesses, in particular with a view to finding a way together as soon as possible to ensure that companies receive adequate financial resources? It's not a criticism, it's a further search for a way to make this happen. On the one hand, we have banks that have been reducing their balance sheet in the last 5 years from 50 billion to 40 billion, and in particular credits for companies have been reduced from 20 billion to 11 billion since 2008. It is true that there are a lot of credits among companies, and there are 10 billion circuses somewhere. On the other hand, banks are being recapitalised with tax money. We gave around 3.2 billion last year, at the end of 2013, and passed on quite a few bad claims to the Company for Bank Claims Management, including around 3.5 billion. Poor claims still amount to a credit rating of C, D and E between 7 and 8 billion. The country's debt in 2014 was 3.4 billion, and as your statement was, we have between 4.2, 4.8 billion money somewhere to solve liquidity problems next year. It is true that the country's gross debt has increased to 42 billion, while the country has increased by 8 billion external debt. On the other hand, we have companies in charge. According to the European Commission report of February, the Slovenian economy is most indebted to the Euro Group. This report focuses primarily on the indebtedness of the Slovenian economy, the rehabilitation of banks and the strengthening of the competitiveness of Slovenian companies and the professional reforms of the public sector. According to Eurostat's European Statistics Office, Slovenian companies from the non-financial sector are on average the most indebted to enterprises from all Member States of the euro monetary area, on average. For 1 euro of net profit created, an average of 17.2 euros is owed. There's a big problem, too. More than 50 days is the payment maturity in Slovenia Some companies also have these numbers in 100 days. I'm asking you to do this part first, then maybe move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Dr. Uroš Choufer will now answer. If there is still time to answer, you may be answered by the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, who is engaged in ongoing business, Mr Dragonja, orally at the next sitting or in writing. Here you go, Dr. Chouffer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Maybe I'd just like to ask: in the abundance of facts I've heard, I've overlooked what the question was.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u249	Dear Uroš, Mr Minister, we both know what the problem is with Slovenia. The Slovenian problem is a credit crunch, a lack of funds for small, medium and large and micro investment firms, for turnover capital, for investments. We have set up a loan fund at the SID Bank for EUR 500 million. There are several programs, but so far, very little has been spent. No one's doing anything on the criteria. The criteria may be too narrow. For example, we should be more relaxed. There is probably also the task of the Chamber of Commerce to be included in the loan of several companies. There are solutions, but I want to hear your solution: When will this credit crunch go away and when will companies be able to get money in banks?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u250	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I think that much of this question concerns my colleague, the Minister of Economy. However, even though I will not just postpone everything to my colleague, I might say that a number of things have been done to eliminate the credit crunch in the last year. Perhaps he would have started by having the rehabilitation of banks that have not yet been fully completed, but he is still on the run. Two of the largest banks or three banks were recapitalised; two of the bad claims were transferred. In one of the banks, the second part of the transaction still needs to be done when we get a final authorisation from the European Commission, and in the fourth bank there is a state aid procedure, which follows. What's important for the future is that we don't just look back, is that these transactions with banks end, and the second part that actually focuses on refocusing on corporate deleveraging, because banks can lend to companies that are in good shape. Here it has been seen that from the beginning of the year until now the conditions for financing companies have improved. This is reflected in the data provided by some Slovenian institutions such as Banka Slovenije. However, it is also clear that there is still something to be done in the area of corporate deleveraging, because, as long as we have over-indebted companies, we do not actually have a credit crunch, but we do have the ability to rent additional resources and to restructure. This is now what is actually in focus and quite a few large companies are currently in the deleveraging process.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Master Stephnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u253	It is indeed true that indebtedness is a major problem of the Slovenian economy – I have already said this before – or, on the other hand, sub-capitalisation. However, companies that are good, export-oriented have development potential, innovation potential, human resources potential, lack equity. We know that owners should first recapitalise businesses, but because of the nature of ownership in Slovenia, the weakness of owners, it is necessary to find other models, resources, how to increase capital in companies. This is a subordinated capital fund; it can, as promised by the Minister of Economy, be tied up capital, capital, similar to subordinate capital, with competence, I don't know, ten years, or new financial instruments of capital funds that are not in Slovenia. We have a conventional approach to these commercial banks where the Minister of Finance and the State could encourage the Banks Claims Management Company or the Slovenian State Holding to convert credits into capital shares where owners want to step out as owners of the company. If we do not do so in a very short time, we may find that good export companies will go bankrupt and that more than 10,000 employees in these companies will end up in a business establishment. It is therefore extremely important to find new financing models for the company. Look, today companies actually don't get credit because they always start to guarantee real estate. But companies have something else. They can have 50 highly educated employees, but they do not have that much real estate, but they have human resources, they have human capital; they have, say, a very high market share or they have very innovative, highly productive, highly demanding products: whether they are services or objects, products. In my opinion, the country must create such conditions that as many of such products as possible are of high added value, and this financial environment must accompany these companies with at least that capital, because today we are facing not only a lack of capital, but also a market where there is greater competitiveness, the problem is the ability to pay. For example, foreigners buy, pay by hand at the end of the project, and if the project lasts one year, they pay you at the end of the year. And you have to provide some financial resources for the return on capital for one year. Is the contract sufficient to raise funds for turnover, etc.? There are also certain mechanisms missing to credit our export customers, not just us who export to Slovenia our [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Stanko Stepišnik, I expected that you could also make a procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You're probably expecting an answer. There is only a few minutes left for the reply of Minister Draganje, or perhaps in writing, to respond to you. So, in accordance with your decision, Minister Dragonja, Minister of Economic Development and Technology, who carries out current business, will respond to you in writing. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the current Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, and the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, who carries out the current business, Mr Sam Omerzel. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u255	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings for both ministers who do business! And I'm going to ask the question first of all that there won't be any complications later. Dear Minister! With regard to the Act on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences between 30 January and 10 February 2014, I ask you: Why did Slovenia's electricity distribution companies not receive even the euro out of the 15 million euros envisaged for this effort in accordance with the Act on measures to remedy the effects of the fertilisation between 30 January and 10 February 2014? The intervention law itself was just adopted to speed up the remediation of this damage and to also in some way allow different economic operators to somehow remedy this natural disaster. This title also addresses these funds, which were, inter alia, very precisely defined in the intervention law as to what they could be used for. Among other things, provision was made for the aid of electricity distribution for direct costs, in particular the costs incurred for the use of aggregates not provided for in any documents held by electricity distribution and not even related to insurance policies they hold for their facilities. It is therefore surprising to me that, at this time, there has not been a euro of refunds in this direction, or at least some preliminary advances, which is a common practice in such situations. Moreover, the answer that we have received to my question to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space of 28 April says that the remediation of the consequences will take place in a two-phase manner and that this is how the Commission works, which is preparing, in the first phase, censuses and cuts of funds for road, rail and energy infrastructure, and forwarded it to the State Commission to address the consequences of natural disasters. Later, he also says, it is said, for about 14 days, that the material received by the Government last week has been reviewed and accepted and that 4.8 million has been allocated to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space for all three areas, which I think is very little given the extent of the crash that it has been. It also says that in the second phase, the Commission will review and prepare rescue programmes, which will also be approved by the Commission to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The preparation of the material for the Government and the Government will later confirm the recovery programme. [[…]] I believe that this procedure is very long and therefore I ask: Why hasn't the euro been refunidrated to the companies yet?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u256	Thank you very much. The first will be the responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Samo Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u257	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Member, thank you for the question! First of all, I would like to point out that this part of the costs that we are talking about and which are linked to the intervention law is one segment. The second segment is linked to the damage caused and linked to the long-term recovery of the entire network. There we are talking about 65 million euros in distribution costs or damage that will be part of long-term rehabilitation and infrastructure. With regard to the specific issue that you are asking me, related to the means to remedy damage under the intervention law or for the reimbursement of costs, we have, at the decision of the Government, €800,000 to reimburse the costs associated with aggregates. In addition, we have €200,000 provided for by the Slovenian distribution network operator, so that we can get the entire sum of the EUR million we have available for the refund. As far as the claims are concerned, we received 2 000 91 applications for refunds at the Ministry, where requests for electricity distribution are also included. The total value of all claims at this time is EUR 3.3 million. However, I must point out that what is crucial in all these applications is a very large amount of documentation or claims that are not justified and that it is necessary or necessary to call for the completion of applications where the applications are not complete – and this is already being done – or that part of the applications that is not justified must be eliminated. This is how the Commission currently operates at the Ministry in this work and when we have all the applications complete and refined – those where there is a large part of the costs mentioned that are not eligible under the intervention law – we will then introduce an exact number of eligible costs in the full doubt of this item under the intervention law and then we will also determine the key and how these funds will be distributed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Would you like to give me another answer, Mr. Secretary? No, no, no. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u259	Thank you for your answer. I think it is correct, but I do wonder, given that we are at the end of May, whether it is not some time in which certain advances could still be made for these needs; we are not just talking about electricity distribution; we are probably in the same position as local communities and other economic operators that have been expecting some refunds from this title. I understand your concerns about individual claims, but this can be avoided if it is determined to in some way adapt matters and then settle them later. I think that this is a common practice in such cases, because this logic, to make it clear to the end, can mean a year or another year, which would not be strange for the excuses we hear from day to day. Given that 4 million 800 were earmarked for this ministry, the Ministry of the Peace of Soul could adapt certain things, as I also told the local communities, to what economic operators, as these direct funds of 15 million were also earmarked. It has to be realized that a few aggregates are still revoking, I think that Elektro Primorska has not yet eliminated all the consequences, so I expect in this area that something is happening [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I also propose that all the committees that have dealt with the intervention law in the National Assembly should also process or receive the final report that the Council of State has considered and I think that the Defence Committee, but not all the committees which were also actively involved in the adoption of the intervention law, are not entitled to this information. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and have the opportunity to comment. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for this additional opinion or position on the urgency of paying these costs. I must say that I absolutely, practically fully agree with your position, and I am also aware that rapid assistance, particularly in order to resolve liquidity for all businesses that have suffered damage, is of great importance. Otherwise, I would also like to see that this part of the provision of funds can also be implemented in terms of the advances, but we must be aware that the actual assets are less than what the current data shows to be the level of the claims we currently have at the Ministry. I think it is right that we first get the right number, the exact number of eligible costs, because in reviewing the documentation, the Commission has found that there are quite a few such documentations, such claims which are not justified and these should be excluded in order to arrive at the correct number of the total sum of the required costs of all legal entities eligible for reimbursement. With regard to deadlines, where you mentioned that this could take up to one year or more. According to an assessment made by the Commission, and I believe it to be correct, this work should be completed by the end of June at the latest, which means that immediately after the establishment of all eligible costs, of course, those who are eligible should also be paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u263	Thanks again for saying that. I also thank you for this part of the response and I agree to some extent, but in helping the Minister that we may resolve another matter during this period of departure, I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the debate, as I said, be held so that we can come to a solution. I think it will have to be determined once within these rules of the game that there may be a major problem, that in a basket where we have one rotten apple, we are waiting for the others to rot, not to save a healthy apple. This is also true for the intervention law, which was designed to solve the crisis in order to help the economy, and so was the debate, and everyone who debated the committees and even the plenary session imagined the intervention law. It is difficult to agree that those who speculate in some way must also wait to prove that they are wrong in the end and that those who are healthy do not receive their advances or receive no payment. I do not think this logic is good, especially for a country that has problems in the field of economic development. I propose that this be discussed and perhaps helps the Minister to find a better solution than waiting for all those who have not submitted all the papers to complete their roles. However, all those are waiting for this account, probably the majority or 90% who have completed their applications correctly and are also eligible for funding, but it is the official's excuse that until all those who have submitted their applications will be treated, they too cannot receive their refunds. If we have such regulation, it will be very difficult to resolve this country out of trouble.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u264	Thank you very much. In accordance with your request for a debate, Mr Krivec, we will decide tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mrs Sonja Ramšak will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, who is currently in business, Mr Sam Omerzel, a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Today, Madam Minister, quite a few questions have already been addressed to you, which relate mainly to the regulation of infrastructure in the country. Indeed, if we are to ensure the development of an economy that can also bring about the creation of new jobs, it is essential that adequate infrastructure is urgently needed. In one of the works of your ministry, I have observed that when we are talking about road infrastructure, especially regional roads and highways, it would be necessary to build and rebuild annually, investment and regular maintenance of €320 to 350 million over the next 20 years. This data shows that our road infrastructure is literally in a red alarm. However, I am referring to today's issue only as part of this problem, which is the reconstruction or rehabilitation of the Storé-Svetina-Laško regional road. In fact, citizens and citizens living in this area who benefit from this road connection on a daily basis have repeatedly warned that this road section is becoming extremely dangerous and is increasing with each day. New injuries on the road also occurred in the last natural accident, which is after the pharynx. It's also a highly repulsive area. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, When can daily users of State Road 744 to 2346, especially between the first and second kilometres of the Stora-Svetina-Laško road, which in this part is very dangerous for all road users and has in the past claimed the death penalty, expect reconstruction or rehabilitation of this dangerous road section? Indeed, the inhabitants of this area find that this poor road infrastructure also discourages tourists and real estate buyers, since no one wants to become a occasional or daily user of this dangerous road. Thank you for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u267	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Madam Member, thank you very much for the question. This project, which you have highlighted, has been included in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia since 2008. From then on, EUR 191 000 has been spent on this budget item, mainly for project documentation and land purchases. I must say that I have also looked at the recordings of this part of the road and is in really bad shape, not only as part of the infrastructure and the state of the road, but also after dimensioning – there is no room for pedestrians. I agree with your conclusion that this is indeed an extremely dangerous section for all participants in traffic. At present, there are still three remaining plots of land that are unbought. A co-financing agreement with the local community is also signed, so this is the positive part of this section where a large part of this project is actually ready to be implemented. It was also made by PZI for the first section, which is the first kilometer, up to 2,250 kilometers, we are talking together about 1.23 kilometers in length. However, despite the problem, it has been exposed several times to funding today, I regret to say that there is no funding on this budget line. For this project, we must provide funds from the integral part of the budget and, if they are, this is the part that is necessary for the rehabilitation and management of the investment to continue to complete this project. At the moment, there are no such funds, but if they are, everything is ready for this project to be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak. Request for complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I must say that while I am pleased with your answers in this part, I will refer to some of the things that you have highlighted in your previous responses to my colleagues, this is a lack of funds. I think that, while you pointed out that you were naive when the budget was adopted, but look, Mr Stepišnik, former Minister of Economy, also replied when he accepted the budget's balance on the question why he had agreed to a reduction in budgetary resources, that the Government was essentially ensuring social peace. But I think that in the area of infrastructure, not only road, but generally, in Slovenia, there is actually an alarming situation, but there are opportunities to draw on European funds, which, of course, we find that in Slovenia we are extremely insurmountable or obviously have no real will or knowledge. I believe that, as you said, you expect the new government to be provided with funds. Indeed, those who drive on these roads on a daily basis – I must say that many times I ask myself whether it is not a responsibility for us, Members and Members of Parliament, not only in the executive branch of power in view of this difficult situation and that many accidents could be prevented if we provided adequate road and also, as you have mentioned many times before, railway infrastructure. Despite the fact that you can further answer my explanations, I would still expect us to have a broader debate because I think this is a very big problem in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u270	Thank you. Would you like to respond further, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u271	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Madam Member, thank you for this additional opportunity for discussion. During this one year of my ministry, I have met practically all my colleagues within the European Union, and I have also consulted most of them on how to approach strategically in thinking, managing the ministry not only in the field of infrastructure, but also on the broader importance of infrastructure for economic growth and, as a result, also for the pension fund, including for the health treasury. Most European countries – one in this shorter period, one in previous history – have faced a similar situation in which Slovenia is today, and all up to the last minister have advised me on the basis of their experience and on the basis of their good practices that Slovenia should go on the path of investment in infrastructure and that the order of economic growth and investment in infrastructure must be in this order. So, first of all, investment in infrastructure that will provide an environment for economic development, for economic growth and later economic growth is practically a consequence of this. A very graphic example, which we also have from our own, could be said of pride, the Slovenian company Gorenje, which exports its products throughout the world. I can't imagine how successful Gorenje could be, but if we close the bridges, we can either take our products along roads, highways or rails to our customers. This is the basis that we need to think about. I very much want my successor to recognize the importance of infrastructure and also that the government that comes after us will recognize the importance of infrastructure and will devote more resources to these investments. As a result, economic growth will come and, as a result, all the cashiers we have to fill to have a social state, and I am sure they will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u272	Thank you, too. Would you like to make a request for discussion? Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u273	Yeah. Thank you, Minister, for this supplementation of your reply, but we would like to note today that this is a very problematic area, that it is also very important for the resolution of Slovenia from these severe economic, financial and social crises, that it would be right for Members and Members to support this general debate and to hold it in the National Assembly. Maybe once in an honest and honest way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u274	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. However, we continue with questions, namely Mr Franz Breznik, Slovenian Democratic Party. He's going to ask the Minister of Finance who's running errands, Dr. Uros Chufer. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u275	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary! Within a few months, I am again asking you an oral question, which revolves mainly around the banking system, I can say that it is somehow similar to the detection of the problems currently emerging in the economic system. In particular, I am thinking of a company and smaller entrepreneurs, which in no way, although you are saying that you have saved the two largest banks, that there is in fact some kind of third bank rehabilitation – I believe it is the Bank – and that during your term you have also put two smaller tycoon banks – Factor Bank and Probank – into a controlled liquidation, that entrepreneurs, smaller and medium-sized enterprises, somehow the banks do not service. They did not seriously approach and, in fact, the market for this servicing of banks that have been recapitalised at a level, at least after some information from the Prime Minister today, i.e. EUR 3.1 billion, that somehow they do not provide it. I also ask you a question because there is information coming, especially in the Finance and other newspapers, in Dnevnik, Del we can track down a whole range of information, but at this time very few bad claims have somehow become a bad bank. So, that base of the bad bank was somehow destroyed, and on the other hand news is coming, that during this time a moratorium on the bad claims of the two largest, in fact tycoon companies in Slovenia ACH and DZS, both in this rank Forum 21, and that you received moratoriums on loans with a one-percent interest rate at that time. So I ask you again, now it is slightly different with the following question: By the end of April, how many loans for corporate takeovers – so-called tycoon loans – were transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company? How many tycoon loans are left in the portfolios of the three largest state banks NLB, NKBM and Abank? How many Taiwanese loans have the three largest state banks reprogrammed this year? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u276	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Perhaps first, I would point out that, in fact, the transfer of bad claims from the two largest banks to the bad bank has already been fully completed. I think it ended just a week ago – it's NLB and NKBM. While these processes have not yet begun for the Bank because we are still waiting for the European Commission's permission. In this context, all the loans that were on the list agreed and approved by the European Commission were transferred. If you look at and classify these loans into different groups – I have not actually done this – but you can look very carefully because, at the end of April, a bad bank published a final list, a very detailed, name, debtors and some of their additional information. I think you can build this statistics on your own at this address.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u278	Thank you. Mr Breznik has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u279	Thank you very much. My question mainly touched on those questions that your colleague in the government previously asked you, former Minister of Economic Affairs, Mr Stepišnik: Why will the two largest banks, which are 100 % of state-owned – and also the third – become when the process is completed, not finance smaller companies? Why are you acting discriminatoryly on the market? You are the Minister of Finance, and you are also responsible for the work, especially through supervisory committees in both banks – the health part that is not to blame for the situation is not financed. Just an example, some information. DZS owned by Mr Petan; at the time when they received a moratorium on bad loans, they somehow want to get out of the claws so that they sell all the office material – for example, the State Press of Slovenia, for example, the Insurance Company Triglav at 15 to 150% higher prices than are comparable on the market. Through this, he wants to somehow preserve the ownership of these two tycoons. See, the essence of the bad bank is not only to sell and sell bad claims and to clean up banks, the basic banks in state ownership, but also to make those unconscious owners who have developed megalomanic and have been poor owners, to redistribute themselves and that banks enter this first phase and, in the second phase, the responsible owners into these companies. So it's a total bank exhaustion. On the other hand, the ACH information is similar. Trimo Trebnje is before the collapse, Adria Mobil too. Look, these people who have entered these companies without capital, they're not gonna make it. As Minister, you are responsible for taking some initiative to give direction [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] State banks and that these two companies are not dealt with in such a discriminatory manner. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u280	Thank you. Would you like to complete the reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u281	Thank you very much. In fact, I agree with you that the maintenance of businesses, the restructuring process is now a very important process, which really needs to be fully implemented. Maybe I could only fix so much, even though I can't comment on individual cases, but both of these cases were transferred from the bank to the bad bank. This is also evident from the list of claims transferred to a bad bank. Perhaps he would also mention that any process of deleveraging and restructuring of enterprises must be done in accordance with certain legal rules. Last year, just so that these processes can be more successful and efficient, we prepared a new law on corporate debt, which is the part concerning insolvency law, as is the part relating to voluntary pre-trial settlement. The legal basis for this is ready, and I think it is right that all creditors in Slovenia operate on this legal basis in a way that ensures the fairest and proper way to ensure that healthy companies and the health of the cores in companies can be maintained.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr. Breznik has a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u283	Mr President, thank you. Mr. Minister, I have asked you a question in a very short time for the second time. I would really like to know, a number of Slovenian public, especially small businesses or medium and family companies that have set up all their assets, with one small workshop, with two, three employees, or as a company, perhaps similar to Mr Stepišnik, who were essentially not guilty before the collapse – and at that time they are listening, watching stories when people who have acted unconsciously, who have acted greedily when we had this opportunity through a bad bank – you too have it. As the Ministry of Finance, you also propose one of the non-executive directors to a bad bank. Through this you also have some control function in a bad bank. Another non-executive director is also proposed by the Ministry of Economy. You, too, Mr Stepišnik, have actually had some influence on a bad bank, indirectly. Real anomalies are happening. The bad bank project, which was not poorly set up in the time of Mr Šuštersič and the other Janšev government, has completely failed. He went the other way. Somehow, those owners who were their political capital at the beginning of our Slovenian state somehow, I can say, transferred to the ownership shares of former social property. That's the worst thing that's ever happened to us. People who have never set up any of their private assets will become and become owners. We have a whole bunch of these companies. And you're responsible! Look what's going on with Mr. Sheska in Iskra! She's making a fool of herself. A lot of companies, which are also highly subdued, have amazing knowledge, are somehow shrinking at this time. Good people are leaving, people are on minimum wages, they even have to pay for the parking space in front of the company. This is what's happening to us right now and what we have to do. These people need to be redistributed immediately, no more credit, immediately throw them out of the ownership structure! At the moment, if the taxpayers have recapitalised these banks, they should immediately enter the first phase of the bank and, at the second stage, they should immediately start looking for the responsible owners. Therefore, I propose, in the framework of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that a thorough debate be held on this subject in this mandate, because, look, in this turmoil, which will continue until the next government comes, this problem will be a major one, and these people will survive by totally exhausting those companies that we still have. Here, however, is the national interest, at least so I see him as an economist, and at this very moment I see in this account the national interest that these companies, which have not yet failed to obtain new, responsible owners, will also come into this property with their own capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u284	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Mr Borut Ambrožič, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, who is currently engaged in business, Dr Jernej Pikalu. Here you go, Mr. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u285	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! At this 25th meeting of the ordinary National Assembly, I would like to refer the question to Dr. Jernej Pikal, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, who conducts ongoing business. The question is as follows: Are the ministers aware of the open or unresolved spatial issues of secondary schools in Slovenia, such as, for example, the Maribor High School of Gastronomy and Tourism, the Maribor Central Trade School, the Maribor High Food School, the Maribor Biotechnical School and, indirectly, the Maribor Agricultural Forestry Institute? Does the Ministry already have concrete proposals for their resolution? Students and students from all over Slovenia are enrolled in these educational institutions, which is why this is not only a regional issue, but an all-Slovenian issue. Given that the Minister is not here, I would also like to take this opportunity to give him a public invitation on behalf of myself and also on behalf of the local community, to meet with the legitimate representatives of the previously mentioned institutions in Maribor, such as the practice of regular meetings of Styrian Members in the Municipality of Maribor, and to try together in a transparent manner with the presence of all but not separately, to find the appropriate solutions for the previously opened questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u286	Thank you. Since Minister Jernej Pikalo is absent from 16 hours, Mr. Ambrožič, do you insist on an oral answer to your questions?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u287	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u288	In this case, I will place your questions in the next regular session. Mr Marko Pavlisic, National Gazette, will ask the Minister for Culture, who carries out the current business, Dr Uroš Grilc. Here you go, Mr. Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Several articles were published in one of the central Slovenian print media on the issue of the distribution of so-called free maps in culture. Individual cultural organisations have observed that free tickets are no longer used for the purpose for which they were designed, but that increasingly influential individuals understand free tickets as tools to demonstrate their own strength and influence in society. The author of the original text, based on which the articles were created, pointed out that pressure on free cards comes from all sides. He listed journalists, economists, politicians, officials, culturers and so on. Do you think it is necessary to settle matters differently in this area? Given that we are largely subsidising culture from the budget, the question is: In this case, is there some way of subsidising blindly and probably everything happens too often because of pressure on cultural institutions there is subsidisation of groups that could afford maps? Or do those who claim that subsidies often come from individuals who love culture to such an extent that the authors were not prepared to pay even the entrance fee from their own pocket? Are subsidies really intended for people who come to the show in upper-middle cars and dressed in evening clothes taking over a free ticket as soon as they drink free aperitif? Dear Minister: What are the specifics of the number of free tickets in important cultural institutions: Cankarjev dom, Opera, Drama? How much of the resources for their operations are derived from the entry or marketing of services and how much from the budget subsidies? Are you thinking about changes that would remedy the current situation in the area of the granting of free tickets and make culture less accessible to system users; and those who can afford a ticket charge the full price? Mr. Minister, my question is not about the importance of culture, it is clear to us all here, what is the meaning, nor is the question of subsidising culture, but above all: Can we obtain more resources by changing the system or changing the charge of tickets to improve the development of culture?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u290	Thank you. The word has the minister, Dr. Urosh Grilz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u291	Dear President-in-Office, honourable Member, thank you very much for the very interesting question, even for the very current question. It may be possible that public institutions in the field of culture, as well as public cultural programmes and cultural projects, of the tickets we are talking about, are used for free tickets, mostly for participants in the performances, their programmes, projects, media representatives, sponsors and others with whom they are involved in any way or other business. Part of these tickets are sometimes designed to popularize their activities and to gain a new audience – one that is not usually a visitor to cultural events. Of course, work is also linked to the days of various open doors, such as museum nights, when institutions present their work and try to attract as many different target groups as possible. Part of the free tickets, which must be highlighted, are also intended for vulnerable social groups such as the unemployed, the disabled and so on. In general, I would say that the decision on the policy of institutions, societies, non-governmental organisations regarding free tickets is something that is within their competence and needs to be fully integrated into their strategies. I am convinced that all of these people are still aware that the funds obtained on the market from the sale of tickets are a very important share of their own revenue and that, therefore, they are best able to assess when and how much free tickets should be allocated and for what purpose, of course. I am convinced, of course, that the autonomy of public institutions is of the utmost interest to all involved; even in some way I do not see how such an area could be regulated in such a variety of public institutions, from museums, galleries to theatres, music institutions, to libraries in a uniform way. It is true, however, that I expect that public institutions, within the framework of their medium-term strategies imposed by law, will also very precisely define the way in which the audience is acquired and also define their strategies. For the development of the audience is something which, in particular, in the light of the functioning of Slovenian culture, needs to be further developed in the future. This is of course important not only because culture is in fact the most accessible. Of course, it is also important in terms of the clean operation of institutions. But if we're going to get some concrete information now. And I'll start at museums and galleries first. In 2012, 314 thousand 694 tickets were sold together in 35 authorized museums and galleries throughout Slovenia and 480 thousand 777 free tickets were distributed. It is said that about 60% of free tickets to galleries and museums. There is a different picture in the national museums and their dislocated units. This year, 167 thousand 794 tickets were issued, of which 70 thousand 400 were free or 42%. A comparison of the number of all tickets issued and tickets paid shows the 58% percentage of visitors who paid a ticket to enter the museum. The percentage of visitors who visited the museum at various events, which allowed free visit to the museum, is about 42%. From this data we can very clearly conclude that more and more visitors are taking the opportunity to visit museums or galleries free of charge, different permanent exhibitions, every first Sunday of the month, for example, on February 8th, on Slovenian cultural holiday, or on May 18th on the world day of museums or on the third Saturday of June, when the Summer Museum Night takes place, or December 3rd, when this happy day takes place, as well as at the opening of new exhibitions and special events in individual museums. I would like to say below that the picture in Slovenian theatres is quite different. In 2012 487 thousand 739 tickets were issued, of which 411 thousand 133 tickets were sold free of charge, i.e. 76 thousand tickets. A little more on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u292	Thank you. Mr Pavlisic has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u293	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your answer so far. Dear Minister, in your reply so far, you have limited yourself mainly to museums and galleries, and I hope that you will continue to do so. In fact, I looked at the annual report of specifically Ljubljana's Drama, where I noticed that there were 87,000 visitors and 37 000 600 tickets sold, which means that fewer than half of the tickets were actually bought, at a subsidised price, when you mentioned vulnerable groups and tickets for popularisation, this part also appeared in the annual report. However, if we sum up the numbers that are listed there, we reach a figure of about 2 000 – nothing more in the case of Ljubljana’s Drama. So we're talking about the difference between 40,000 and 47 thousand tickets, which we don't know where they got lost. I would therefore ask for a slightly more concrete response from this point of view. I looked at this annual report on the case of the Ljubljana Drama. When you mentioned that tickets are a very important source for cultural institutions too, I regret that I find this difficult to agree with. Again on the case of the Ljubljana Drama: 85% of the funds come from the budget, only 15% from other sources, and even less than half of the tickets. So we're talking about 6, 7, 8 percent coming out of tickets. With regard to how it could be arranged differently, I had in particular the possibility that, in fact, an institution should also offer tickets at a totally non-commercial price, offer; not that this is an obligation for anyone, not that it is complicated by having to prove its social status, but simply come to the counter and say, and I appreciate the culture to this point that I am willing to pay the full price. That would be the obligation of these [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] That those who actually support culture can pay the full price. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u294	Thank you. The Minister shall have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u295	I'll continue with a little more detailed information for the Ljubljana Drama. In 2012, 54 thousand 966 tickets were issued, of which 37 thousand 809 were sold in this ratio, as you said, probably a year later. The share of free tickets is therefore 31.2% in Ljubljana's Drama. Here this percentage at first sight also surprised me, I must say, but it is an interesting structure of these free tickets, which in some ways reflects a certain marketing strategy of the Ljubljana Drama. In fact, promotion tickets, these are tickets that are linked to invitations and accreditation, tickets for guests from abroad, directors, artistic participants from theatres and so on, various festivals, critics and so on, I do not explain, amount to about 6% of these free tickets. Then the service tickets, co-producer tickets, for all participants in performances, are employed in SNG Drama and so on – amount to 7%. Then the study tickets, which relate in particular to AGRFT students – normally, this is a natural connection – amount to 5%. And then there are free tickets left, including particularly vulnerable groups. For example, the drama has very interesting partnerships with Altro, the Society of Cancer Patients, the Association of Paraplegics of Slovenia, Up, Vito, the Society for Preventive Work, SOS Phone, Shent, Ozaro and so on. It is interesting, however, that he has a rather different strategy regarding free tickets and Cankar's home. For example, in 2012 Cankar's home sold 198 000 711 tickets for 852 events of the cultural and artistic programme, and the issued free tickets amounted to just over 14 000, an average of 17 per event, representing 4,1 % of the total number of tickets issued. Also here is an interesting structure, a large part of these tickets, 23.8%, are intended for journalists and photo reporters, 38%, this is the largest part, they received co-producers and co-organizers of the event, and then they are teachers, patrons and so on. The data provided by me testify that free ticket customers are mostly those operating within the culture field, the media fields and either co-create or report on it. This means that some scene you described, in which darkened vehicles drive eminent guests to the performances, somehow it is not true. In fact, I would like as many eminent guests as possible both in the field of policy in cultural institutions and I hope that this will also happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u296	Thank you. Can we finish with the question? [[Yeah.]] The next question will be raised by Mrs Jasmina Opec, Slovenian People's Party, Minister of Finance, who carries out ongoing business, Dr Uroš Cufer. Here you go, Mrs. Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! In 2006, Slovenia modernised already very old income legislation, also changing the principle of taxation from territorial income to global income. A key error was made at the time, as the specific situation in Slovenia was not taken into account in view of the various tax regimes in neighbouring countries. Since lower and middle incomes are lower in some neighbouring countries, this is particularly true for Austria, compared to Slovenia much lower taxes, the payments for migrant workers in Slovenia are very high. Something soon after this change began to come with high payments in Slovenia. The solution was quickly sought and was temporarily found in a special tax relief for migrant workers. All actors were then aware that this was a temporary solution and that a better lasting solution would have to be found. In 2012, the Ministry of Finance, at the time Minister Janez Šuštersič, wanted to abolish the said relief, but also at the request of the Slovenian People's Party Group, the Minister listened to our arguments and withdrew the disputed article on the abolition of the relief. In 2013, the Constitutional Court declared the special tax relief for migrant workers unconstitutional. In doing so, we can say that you did not make an effort at the Ministry to find an appropriate argument why this special tax relief should be maintained in force. Even after this decision by the Constitutional Court, there was no special effort to find a more favourable solution for migrant workers in order not to pay that amount. Thus, despite our amendments to the Finance Committee with the new Income Act, your coalition abolished tax relief for migrant workers. The removal of relief, however, makes the social situation of these migrant workers very much worse. Dear Minister, I ask you: Are any changes in the taxation of migrant workers being prepared at the Ministry of Finance, and, if so, in any way? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u298	Thank you. The text is by Dr. Urosh Chufer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u299	Thank you very much for that question. We have been familiar with this subject for quite some time. Also recently, I think that somewhere in the first half, I hope I haven't made a mistake now, that we have somehow met with representatives from these regions in April, and we have agreed that we will find a solution that might be right for them. This does not mean that all the problems can be solved, nor does it mean that we will do it in the way that it was previously done, that it will then be constitutionally disputed and resolved, but that we are looking for a general solution to how to deal with these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u300	Thank you. Mrs Opec has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u301	Thank you very much. During the first months of this year, migrant workers have decided to prepare a meeting, in accordance with their legitimate right and in accordance with the legal rules, to draw attention to their problem, and in particular to the insubordination of your government in resolving their situation. They asked for all the necessary permits, but they did not receive them after the weeks that passed. Instead of this permission, they received your invitation then to a meeting, which indeed, as you have already said, took place on April 16, 2014, and at that meeting you promised them that within two weeks you would review all the issues and design appropriate solutions. Today we are already at the end of May, and these solutions are not yet there. My question, Minister, is: Do you have a real interest in finding a solution for these migrant workers, or was this meeting called only to stop their activities in organizing the meeting itself?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u302	Would you like to complete your answer, Minister? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u303	Actually, if it wasn't for purpose, I wouldn't say.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u304	Thank you. Can we just get this out of the way? No, no, no. Request for a debate. Mrs. Opec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u305	Thank you very much. These people are not to blame for going to work in neighbouring countries across borders, especially from my premurk end, Styria, Koroška, Gorenjska, Prlecija. The government's actual inability to create jobs on domestic soil, I think a year ago you talked about 60,000 new jobs, forced them to solve their existential problem by going across borders. Despite linguistic, cultural and other differences, they wanted to work easily. I think these people need to be helped as soon as possible, instead of actually making their lives harder. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a general debate be held on my issue, because obviously we must all join forces together to find a solution for these people, because there are solutions in my opinion. We have not exhausted all solutions yet, inter alia, we can bring back relief for migrants for reasonable and real reasons, as the Constitutional Court has called them. We can even tax reliefs and tax rates according to our and Austrian laws. The Constitutional Court also allows for special relief, but in the correct reasoning, perhaps through some social policy on aid to vulnerable areas with high unemployment and the like. We could also explore options where day-to-day migrant workers in tax terms would be treated in the same way as foreign diplomats, ship workers, our officials in the European Union. I'm saying there are always solutions. You have to find your own will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u306	Thank you. Your proposal for a debate will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the next question raised by Zvonko Černač, Slovenian Democratic Party, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who conducts ongoing business, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u307	Thanks again. My question to Minister Židan is about spending the cohesion funds of European money on the current financial perspective, where certain blockades have taken place under his ministry and under the government of Alenka Bratušek. The red light was turned on to stop some water projects. We know that clean drinking water will become a more strategic resource than oil in the future. As a result, it is understandable to take care of the protection of water resources, clean drinking water sources and, of course, to ensure that this water remains public. This, of course, cannot be ensured only through a declaratory commitment to this, by entering a right into the Constitution, because this will not help us, but mainly with financial support for a water supply project in many areas in the Republic of Slovenia, whose aim is to renovate water systems. Among them is a project from the area from which I come, from the Pivska Valley, which in some ways also means a strategic reserve for the water supply of the coast for the future. In the context of the so-called overcommitment, the other Janšev government has put in place a number of water supply projects to finance the current financial perspectives, and a red light has been lit for implementation, despite the fact that all these projects have obtained all the documentation, both the building permits and the selected operators for more than half a year or almost a year; that additional damage is causing – I asked the Minister in question 28. This year and instead of the green light, red light was turned on on on this issue, projects were stopped or municipalities were given negative decisions. The Group of Members, as you know, requested an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which was also held on 29 April, and at this meeting a number of recommendations were adopted to the Government, including the Minister, in the sense that these projects are still being implemented, it is said that a green light is being lit in order to ensure that the funds of the current financial perspective are properly drawn up in such a way as to ensure, on the other hand, that the funds remain unused and, on the other hand, a number of projects are not implemented. Only 94% of the contracts have been signed, it is impossible to spend 56% of the money in a good year, since only 44% of the funds have been spent in six years. It is therefore incomprehensible why this decision is not made. I take this opportunity to ask the Minister again because it has been almost a month since these recommendations were adopted in the National Assembly: What's going on? Why is there no decision because the implementation of these projects is difficult every day? And I'm also asking: Who's going to be responsible in the end for losing that money? Who will be responsible for projects that will not be implemented if the decision is not made as soon as possible? Given that the Minister is absent today, I would ask for an answer at the next meeting or even more, I would be very pleased if the green light had been turned on by then for these projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u308	Thank you. With your proposal, I will place this issue in the next regular session. We are moving on to the next question, namely, Mr Jože Tanko, Slovenian Democratic Party, will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who is running business, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u309	Thank you so much for saying that. The fishing-kočev region, Notranjska, parts of Primorska are the areas where we encounter dangerous beasts, we have been dealing mainly with bear-related problems, and lately also with the wolf. Wolf herds have been lurking right near the settlements lately, beasts are coming to houses in the vicinity of Sodražica, and it is very understandable to see the reactions of both the citizens who are scared and the local authorities. Several attacks on animals have been detected, but since the herd of wolves is coming to the settlement, the issue of the safety of the population is, in particular, being raised. The ministry's response to citizens' calls is very unusual, it refers to some statistics that wolf attacks are not common, especially in the last hundred years, but we need to know that the herd of wolves does not choose, it is a group that is very aggressive, aggressive and does not stop in front of man. It attacks much larger animals, such as a few pounds [5 kg] of cattle, and there is also a special danger for humans as well. Given that statistics do not solve security, I ask the Minister: What will the Ministry do to ensure that these security measures are taken? What are those measures that the Ministry intends to take in the event of this mass outbreak of this wolf threat? Since the Minister is not here, I expect an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u310	Thank you. In accordance with your proposal, I will place this issue at the next regular meeting. We are moving on to the next question, which will be put by Mr Borut Ambrožić to the Minister of Justice, who carries out the current business, Dr Senk Plitčanič. Here you go, Mr. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u311	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Once again a nice greeting to all present! I would like to ask the Minister a question at the outset: At what stage is the realization of your announcement when the Minister takes office that the judgments of all Slovenian courts will be made public and will give the lay and professional public a better view of the importance of the legal provisions? If you allow, I would mention a few of the facts that are related to this issue in the explanation more because of public information than because of knowledge of the subject that you know. Despite the fact that every judgment for a public document is valid, not all are publicly published, but it could be said that it publishes what is actually in force in it, unless proven otherwise. The current practice in Slovenia is based on the publication of only certain cases for judicial practice or with a particular legal interest. Thus, only those matters which are relevant for a single decision in similar matters are currently published online via the IUS-INFO portal. The Criminal Procedure Act provides that the judgment must have an introduction, a statement and an explanation, and that the personal data in the judgment are not public, and that the dissemination of such data could therefore also lead to the compensation claim of the person who feels affected. The legal judgment has the property of a public charter, which means that everyone can rely on the fact that this judgment is true and that what is said in the sentence of judgment is indeed true. The judicial hearings themselves, as we probably know, are public, and the judgments are handed down in public, and the exception to this written rule is provided for in the law. The right to public trial is therefore primarily intended to exercise the right to a fair trial. Indirectly, I also believe that the public publication of judgments at all levels, not only at the highest levels, would constitute a transparent approach, which many think today's technology will allow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u312	Thank you. I give my word to Dr. Shadow Plitschani.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u313	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Ambrožič! It is true that by publishing judgments the situation is about the same as you described. As I have already said at the beginning of this mandate, I was planning to change this arrangement; I intended to amend this arrangement by amending the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, this particular kind of sub-legislative act in which these issues, I could say, are more of a technical nature in relation to some of the more important ones regulated by legislation. I will tell you what my plan was, how would I change the public record of the judgments, that is, the publication of the judgments of the Slovenian courts. At the same time, I can now tell you that I am not going to succeed because now I have limited powers. However, I am sure that my successor will continue in this same direction, because this is something that is good for everyone, and I think that there should be no serious differences between the various political parties. So what I intended was to make public all the judgments of the Slovenian courts, not as it is now, only the Supreme and Higher, and also the District and District, so that it would also be clear to the lay public who was the judge in a particular case, which is now clear to professionals, but also to the lay public, and I also wanted to change the order in order to prescribe more precisely than the structure of the judgments so far, what the interpretation of the judgment must be – I mean the explanation of the judgment, the structure of the reasoning of the judgment – in order to follow the structure, as it has been used practically throughout the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, this is an example of how, in my view, the explanations of the judgments of the ordinary courts, i.e. district and district courts, the higher and the Supreme Court, should also be structured. These changes were meant, as they were said, by a change of court order, because this does not require interference with the legislation, because at the same time I intended to amend the legislation, here I am thinking of the law on the courts and the judiciary, in the direction of greater responsibility of the judges, greater transparency and the like, as I have already announced many times before, here I wanted this somehow in a package together with a change of court order in some third stage, which would follow what we have done so far and what Parliament has also confirmed and accepted. Unfortunately, he won't be able to pull this off in this term. That would be a brief answer to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u314	Thank you. Mr Ambrožič has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u315	Thanks for the answer. I would say that you have listed the chronologically well, and I hope that maybe someone who will read this magnetogram as your successor and the next composition of the National Assembly will also take this into account, because, as it is said, the public interest, not only the legal interest, is great, and ultimately transparency also requires such a solution. But I'm curious, maybe as a sublime question, because I didn't find out when I was preparing my own explanation for this question: What are the arrangements in this area in some European Union countries? Do, for example, neighbouring Austria or Italy possibly already have this on a national portal? If you might know the answer, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u316	Thank you. The Minister shall have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u317	Most of the Member States of the European Union, and even if we look at it wider, America, have it so arranged. This is also one of the reasons why, I think it is not yet, would not or would not object to the fact that it is so in Slovenia. What I forgot to mention earlier; of course, this public, in the direction I described it, would not interfere in any way with the protection of personal data, this should be ensured and we also have this provision for ensuring, i.e. in judgments, such as district and district courts, which are not yet legally binding. In particular, for Austria, I cannot shake my hand now whether this is exactly as we intended here, but I can say that in most Member States there is no dilemma that all judgments are public, that it is precisely what judges are the authors of these judgments, and that they are accessible for the use of information technology, so usually online.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u318	Thank you. This concludes the question and brings us to the next, put by Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Slovenian Democratic Party, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, Minister in absentia! I know that she is excusedly absent, but I would nevertheless like to ask the following question: Will you be in line with the adopted normative work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 to 17. 6. 2014 submitted for consideration a law on long-term care, long-term care insurance and personal assistance? In fact, it is obvious that we will not do our homework in this call to the National Assembly in order to adopt this law. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities provides that States Parties shall recognize the same right for all persons with disabilities to live in the community and in the same manner as others to decide and take effective and appropriate measures to enable them to enjoy and participate fully in this right. In addition, to ensure that they have equal opportunities to choose permanent residence, they shall decide where and with whom they will live and shall have access to various services at home and to host and other community support services, including personal assistance. In addition, in 2012, more than 5,000 voters and voters tabled the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act. Unfortunately, despite the very strong support and very substantive debate, both public debate and at the meetings of the parent committee itself, this did not receive support in particular from this point of view, as there were quite a number of comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, but a commitment was made and a decision was taken to appeal to the Government to prepare this law as soon as possible and to put it into the legislative procedure. That is why my question is also to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u320	Do you insist on an oral response? Please, if for a magnetogram [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u321	I apologize, however, for the absence of the Minister to answer this question at the next meeting of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the State Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u322	Thank you. On the basis of your proposal, I will place this issue at the next regular meeting. Mr Daniel Krivec, Slovenian Democratic Party, will raise a question to the Minister of Finance, who carries out the ongoing business, Dr Uros Cufer. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u323	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the ministers! I ask the Honourable Minister Uroš Choufer: Will the electricity distribution companies not be able to pay dividends on the basis of the profit achieved in the following two business years or at least this year? This question is also related in some way to the previous question where we asked about refunds which were also intended for intervention law to cover directly the costs incurred by the electricity distribution companies in dealing with the consequences of the natural disaster at the end of January and early February. At this point, it is clear that many of these electricity distribution companies are in liquidity difficulties and that the failure to pay the dividends would still greatly help them in a business sense. And there's another moment. In view of the fact that all distribution companies were not in equal difficulty, it would make sense for the Ministry to define and in some way lay down some criteria to which undertakings could in some way be allowed to limit the payment of dividends and thus also allow for a quality liquidity flow of the business itself, since not all electricity distribution companies were in the same position in eliminating these consequences of the accident after the stomach. That's why I'm asking the minister: Are they thinking in this direction in view of the fact that all the electricity distribution companies are majority owned by the State or the Soda and that the state also has the possibility that, to some extent, dividends may be waived, especially in those companies that have had very large costs and still have them? Of course, to avoid borrowing loans.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u324	Thank you. I give my word to Dr. Urosh Cuffer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u325	Thank you very much. In fact, our thinking goes towards paying off dividends, but it is true that the final decision is under the jurisdiction of the Court, which, with capital investments, including electricity distributions, manages. As far as the gland and electrical distribution are concerned. In fact, it is necessary to say that these companies are relatively in relatively good condition, both in capital and in cash, relatively little in debt and that their balance sheet allows the removal of the effects of greed to be carried out directly and not through the state budget. That is why at least I am very inclined in this direction to be able to ensure this by myself. However, we went against this point by agreeing with the EIB that they could obtain particularly favourable loans to address these consequences, which are better than normal commercial conditions, and are exclusively intended to do so. That way they can make it up to you in here more than they can make it up to.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u326	Thank you. Mr Krivec has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u327	I thank you for this part of the answer. I think it is correctly stated in which direction the state is thinking, because it is not necessary to hide that the Court is an exclusive controller, but the state still has some influence. However, I would point to the fact that in this case some of the electricity distribution companies, given their potential for the business portfolio, would have to be more indebted. I don't know if this is precisely in the country's interest, but I don't know if this is correct and fair to those electricity distribution companies which are also state-owned, but which, due to the circumstances, have had significantly more damage on their installations which are otherwise secured, but have had significantly more direct interventions that they cannot cover and, in view of your performance, have been covered by debt, which may continue to constitute a more difficult market situation and, in some way, may be easier to bring these distribution units together, because the reason will be that they are not doing well compared to some distribution unit in this country, which at this point has had relatively little trouble with the accident and will, at some point in time, be privileged. I don't think it's the job of the state to leave in trouble at any given time a society of its own that didn't come into such a difficult situation for its own fault. So I appeal and ask: In this direction, does the ministry consider that, in at least some reasonable percentage, this could still affect this dividend payment?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u328	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer, Minister? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u329	No, I would not add anything to it, except perhaps to mention the fact that, in addition to the State through the Court, minority shares are also included in ownership and they also have a certain word in the final decision concerning dividend payments.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u330	Thank you. Are we done with the question? No, no, no. Request for a debate, Mr. Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u331	Thank you for saying that again. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the reply of the Minister, who was not an answer for me, be held in a debate, because I think that these are serious questions and I am not satisfied with the answers. I would like to point out once again that at least some of the distribution companies in this natural disaster have been significantly more affected and it is not right for a country from all companies to take their shares in the same way and thus place certain companies in a subordinate position to the visa of others. I do not think that the task of the State is to force its companies in some way into debt and thus into a worse situation in the market. I therefore propose that this should still be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u332	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 May 2014, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on to the next question, mag. Majda Potrat, Social Democrats, will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is conducting the ongoing business, Karl Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u333	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Since the Minister is absent, I expect a written answer to the question I am asking. This question relates to the event in Vienna on 6 May this year, when the Committee of Ministers discussed the report published in mid-April this year at its 124th meeting. That is when Council of Europe Secretary-General Thorgbjörn Jagland published a report on the state of democracy, human rights and rule of law in Europe. It notes that there are serious human rights violations in Europe, including corruption, trafficking in human beings, racism and discrimination. The Secretary-General even said that Europe was in the worst human rights crisis since the cold war. I therefore think it is very important that the report adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe be addressed and accepted by the Council of State. In fact, every member of the Council of Europe, 47 of them, was notified last November of the three most serious human rights violations in that country and was given the opportunity to respond to these three violations. That's why, of course, I'm interested: What are the three most pressing areas in the report on the state of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Europe mentioned for Slovenia, and how has it responded? While Slovenia is also in a position on 6 May to prepare Slovenia's 3rd periodic report under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. It is said that she will have quite a bit to do with fundamental human rights. Let me mention that the range of these violations is considerable, at least ten of them are worth mentioning. Among them, it is certainly possible to detect ethnic discrimination in ninety-nine countries, the situation in prisons is in thirty countries, and so on, corruption in twenty-six — and we would find a lot of what is probably known as a violation in our country, and I am, of course, interested in the question that I have asked the Minister and to which I expect a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u334	Thank you, too. In accordance with your proposal, we will immediately refer the question to the Minister, who must be answered within 30 days. We are moving on to the next question that Mr Franz Breznik, the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who is conducting the ongoing business, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u335	Mr. President, thank you very much. I can also say that I am again asking Minister Židan a very pressing question on the issue of the comprehensive supply of North-East Slovenia with drinking water. Let me repeat a few famous facts: in 2008 12 Slovene municipalities, together with the municipality of Maribor, signed the project Celovite supply of northeast Slovenia with drinking water. At least in the beginning, the project encountered some problems because we know that some construction companies have gone into forced settlement and bankruptcy procedures, but the project has somehow concluded new contracts with new contractors and the project has expired and has been successfully completed last year. Unfortunately, I should also say that the project was co-financed by the Cohesion Fund, which is from the European Cohesion Fund, in the value of 59%, the municipalities participated 27% and the state through the state budget 14% for the project. The project was urgently needed, it was urgently needed in view of the fact that this infrastructure was over 40 years old, it was also for many enlargements, the infrastructure itself was built from extremely inquality materials, and asbestos pipes were often installed. I must also acknowledge the needs of the economy of the new industrial zones in this area, but they need more water connections, an example is the possible construction of the Benedict thermal bath, where a potential investor needs about twenty-two litres per second of flow. Thus, the project was urgently needed and, unfortunately, I must admit that these municipalities somehow completed the project and were also led by it, the municipality of Lenart had the authority of all these municipalities for a water project. So far, this municipality has not received the participating 14% from the state budget. These 14% amount to about EUR 5 million and were not paid to these municipalities at the time of the Minister of Jewry. Above all, these are congregations that I myself represent, which are extremely poor. They were deprived throughout the period, including in the previous country. It is mainly the municipalities of Lenart, Benedict, and the municipalities of Cerkvenjak, Sveto Yes, Sveti Jurij and Sveta Trojica. It is these five, six municipalities of the former Slovene municipalities and six municipalities, which are additionally located in Slovenski gorica. That's why I'm asking Minister Jew again because he promised at his previous session that he would somehow try to make me at this point have information from the mayors that he didn't do anything. Term expiring, country in debt [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And once again, I'm asking him a question. [[…]] When will his ministry return money to these smaller Slovenian municipalities? Thank you very much for your possible response, Minister Židan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u336	If I understand correctly, Mr. Breznik, do you expect an oral response?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u337	Yes, if the next meeting is to take place, I expect an oral reply, but if this meeting is no longer in this reference, then a written reply, if possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u338	Then, in accordance with the programme of work of the National Assembly, I will announce that there will be an oral response at the first regular meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u340	And the last question raised by Mrs Aleksandra Osterman, Positive Slovenia, Minister of Economic Development and Technology of the current business, Method of Dragonji. Here you go, Mrs. Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u341	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As Minister of Methods of Dragonja is absent for excusable reasons, I will still ask the question. However, if the next meeting of the National Assembly is to take place, I would like to receive an oral reply and, otherwise, a written reply. At the hearing before the Committee on the Economy, Minister Dragonja recognized Kočevska's outstanding wood potential, which I have also pointed out, while stressing in one of the first interviews that he wants to carry out two projects in the field of wood industry, one in Bohinj and the other in Kočevska. In Kočevska, the natural conditions for this are best because it is one of the most forested areas in Slovenia, if not even in Europe. Minister Dragonja also visited the Kočev region within the government on 14 April on a regional visit to Positive Slovenia in Kočevska, where he took a closer look at the potentials of the wood industry. He visited several companies dealing with the timber processing industry and claimed that they would work together with the Minister of Environment and Space to arrange the timber and forestry chain and create the necessary jobs through it. However, as one of the candidates who would take over the role of the state forestry company throughout the country, he identified a well-known nomadic company that deals with the timber processing industry and employs about 180 people. As a result of all this, I would like to ask the distinguished minister and ask him the question: What are the specific plans of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in Kočevska? The Minister himself, Minister of Economy of the Method of Dragonja, has recognized the necessary jobs in the Kočev region and we also agree that Kočevska has experienced a real economic genocide after independence. I thank the Minister very much for his answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-05-19-SDZ6-Redna-25.ana.u342	Thank you. According to your forecast, we will place the question in the next regular session, so you insist on an oral answer. I therefore note that all those who wanted to ask the question have received the floor, so I thank the President of the Government and ministers for the answers given. At the same time, I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 20 May 2014, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions as part of the vote. I am also adjourning the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you and goodbye by tomorrow.
