ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 57th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, mag. Majda Potrata, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Branko Smodiš, Mr Franc Pukšič, Mr Matjaž Han, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Jožef Jerovšek. I've invited the Prime Minister of the Magnificent Government to the meeting. Alenko Bratušek for the proposed extension with A1. the agenda item and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 57th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 21 February 2014, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration of the decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Group of 47 Members and Members of the first-signed Janije Möderndorfer submitted a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with the point of the Report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the State and the envisaged measures to remedy the consequences of the sting between 31 January and 10 February 2014 and the National Assembly proposed that the agenda of the 57th Extraordinary Meeting should be extended by that matter. Request for an extraordinary meeting and thus an extension proposal you received on Tuesday, 25. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I'm asking if a representative of the proposaler wants a word. Mr. Möderndorfer won't. He wants a word from a government representative as a motion for a case? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to hear the words of the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. I am closing the debate on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. Therefore, I ask you to check the functioning of the voting devices. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The Assembly will consider the matter as A1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and in accordance with the adopted Supplement. Can we decide the agenda as a whole? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 57th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving to A1. At the end of the day, this is a report by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the status and envisaged measures to remedy the consequences of the search for honey 31. JANUARY AND 10. IN FEBRUARY 2014 The President of the Magnificent Government. On 25 February 2014, Alenka Bratušek informed the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 239, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, together with the Minister of Infrastructure and Space and the State Secretaries of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, she would report orally to the State Assembly on the state and envisaged measures to remedy the consequences of the sting between 31 January and 10 February 2014. She'll report the mag orally first. Alenka Bratusek, President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! Slovenia was hit by a major natural disaster between January 30th and February 10th, according to our estimates, in fact, the greatest natural disaster in the history of Slovenia. A large part of Slovenia covered the ice armor, which caused extensive damage in the forests, on infrastructure and unfortunately also required two human lives. It is one of the worst natural disasters that has affected Slovenia and caused damage to the exceptional dimensions that will continue to affect us for a long time. Most of the damage occurred on transport and energy infrastructure and in forests. In terms of transport and energy infrastructure alone, the damage assessment has already exceeded € 130 million. It was necessary to act quickly and prudently. While or some of you have dealt with the archives of the past and collected signatures for the referendum, we have been actively involved in dealing with the consequences of this natural disaster. The three laws you will be considering today represent the most urgent systemic measures necessary to address the consequences of this disaster more quickly and effectively. Far from it, it's over. The first steps, as I have already said, have been taken and taken very quickly by the Government. One of the measures, if we can say so, was the establishment of a working group, but it is also necessary to adopt solutions at the level of legislation to address the consequences of greed. They have already done their work and are being carried out by self-sacrificing firefighters, electric workers, civil protection representatives, soldiers and all others who have taken the first and most important steps to remedy the situation. Together there were more than 48 thousand people on the ground, most of them firefighters, 10,000 employees in power plants, 3,000 soldiers and about 2,000 volunteers. Thanks again to everyone from this city for all the hard work and priceless work they have done in the last month. The working group set up by the Government, led by Minister Omerzel, examined the legislative options available. It was found that the legislation in force on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, damage caused by the acorn does not regulate or regulate only minimally. Thus, the legislation in force does not regulate or foresee the elimination of the effects of greed on energy infrastructure and forests, nor on other transport infrastructure, residential, business or other facilities. It also does not allow the recovery of damage to economic operators, does not allow necessary spatial and construction measures aimed at the rehabilitation of energy infrastructure, the urgent measures of an active employment policy for the immediate inclusion of the unemployed in public works in the rehabilitation of forests, nor does it allow for the type of other necessary measures, in particular in forestry. These are the reasons why the Government has drawn up a proposal for an intervention law which, in order to remedy the consequences of this particular natural disaster caused by the stomach, allows certain urgent measures to be taken to remedy the damage as soon as possible. Dear Members and Members! You have before you proposals for laws: amendments and additions to the Law on Forests, measures to remedy the consequences of the famine between 30 January and 10 February 2014 and to supplement the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. The basic objective of the amendment of the Law on Forests is the early implementation of the restoration of economic infrastructure and forests and the early recovery of damage to beneficiaries. Almost all social, economic and natural areas have suffered great losses. Many families were powerless after days, some even more than a week. The gland has crippled public transport, and many companies have been forced to stop production. The far worst consequences, which we will address for a very long time, have arisen on economic infrastructure facilities, particularly energy and transport, and on forest areas. The restoration of economic infrastructure and forests will take years. In order to implement this project, which is an indisputable and urgent priority of this government and of course of the whole country, it is necessary to provide budgetary resources and remove obstacles to procedures that could make it difficult to implement urgent measures. In preparing the bill, we have followed two key objectives: the principle of reparation for damage to all entities affected by greed, and the principle of speed, flexibility and transparency of procedures for the implementation of the necessary measures. The Working Group first identified what could be done with the addition of systemic legislation and then determined what the intervention law should do. The relevant changes to the system law in this bill are affecting the areas of public procurement and the mass valuation of real estate. The law will provide resources in the state budget to remedy the effects of greed, allow for the recovery of damage caused by emergency intervention, simplify procedures in the area of spatial and construction measures that allow for faster restoration of buildings, take urgent measures to establish forest roads, take urgent measures to prevent the spread and repression of pests in forests, and implement a number of other measures that will be presented in more detail by the relevant ministers or State secretaries. Let me add that 15 million euros from the state budget will be provided immediately. However, we are preparing precisely the need for resources for the rehabilitation of state infrastructure, forests, watercourses, public works to be put in place for this rehabilitation. The State will also ask for assistance from the European Union Solidarity Fund and one of the sources will be the insurance amounts and also the European Investment Bank's favourable loans. At the same time, the natural disaster that has struck us is an opportunity to overcome the political level of our communication in the National Assembly, where my ministers stand before the public on the current tape for serial and unwarranted interpretations. With the last, direct bizarre introduction of the interpretation into which you involve even the Municipality of Ankaran, you want to break the parliamentary species and weaken the coalition. Perhaps the fall of the government would be for a political party to rejoice, and in my opinion this would have bad consequences for Slovenia at this time. The government and all of Slovenia needs broad support from all political parties; all political parties that can and can put their own interests in the background are committed to solving the specific problems of our people in many affected areas. In these circumstances, I therefore appeal to all the things gathered here today to leave the daily policy behind, to ignore for a moment the referendum campaign and to concentrate together on the content and commitment as quickly as possible and to help the affected areas and people as best possible. The government therefore gives you three important changes to the laws to deal with. I am sure that you will deal with them with all the seriousness that the consequences of the great natural disaster require. Allow me once again to thank all those who are and we have shown that the Slovenians are mainly solidarity and self-sacrifice. We will never be stronger than nature, but the consequences of natural disasters will be more easily and significantly more successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u3	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u4	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! We're for not going political. I would ask if you would tell the President of the Government as well, but not in the way the President of the Government allows. As far as collecting signatures are concerned, they have absolutely nothing to do with this basic accident. We are collecting signatures because the government has introduced the law, which the Prime Minister of the Government might know, and we are also engaged in – where we collect signatures – with many citizens who are actually appalled by the information tax on real estate. They're horrified. This is a new basic accident. If you wish, fellow members of the coalition, Madam President of the Government, that there will be no political work here, then I suggest that you do so also when the President of the Government is speaking for the House of State; not with those who think otherwise, but with the Government and its coalition, to take into account any well-intentioned proposals that we propose in the opposition parties. The SDS has also proposed a lot of solutions for the property tax, including the archival material tax, but the coalition and government cylindrical has simply gone through all these proposals and we are facing the consequences of this. Even when you were burdening and changing other taxes, we warned that excessive burdens are on citizens. And this was not about political proposals, but it was about serious proposals. For serious suggestions. If you look at the property tax, you will see that the proposals were serious and justified. In fact, with what the government is going to do and what you're going to do in the coalition, you're going to go back to the starting point, if you accept that, but what we suggested at the time was higher, with contempt denied. I find it very inappropriate that the President of the Government of Members in the National Assembly, those who have drawn up different solutions for specific laws, accuses politicians of their conduct. We're not doing anything political! It's healthy. Politically it is what has been adopted and is subject to such a constitutional judgment, because it will be subject to correction by the government, in the base, this is said in the law on mass valuation and in the assessment of the property tax. This is likely to happen in another specific law. I warn you, Mr President of the National Assembly, that you should also warn the Government, including the President of the Government, that such valuable judgments, which do not have the basis for any concrete action, are avoided because they are also unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u5	Thank you. So your procedural proposal is that the Government concentrates on reporting on the catch and does not extend the debate on the other topics and I think that, given that the debate at this point is not possible, this is a procedural warning in place and I really think it would be very important that we stick to it because it is not possible to debate at this point. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. If I understand you correctly, you welcomed this procedural proposal from Mr Tank. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u7	I said that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u8	If I may finish the motion, the President [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u9	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u10	Can I? At least let me know if you're Tank. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u11	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u12	Allowing access to the debate. [[…]] In fact, one thing that is very important, and I would really like to warn you, President. Mr Tanko has introduced a new system of debate, when there is no debate, and you have been allowing him this constantly for some time. You allow it to debate when there are presentations of the positions of the parliamentary groups, you allow it in the debates held by the Government in the National Assembly, and we know that there is no discussion under the Rules of Procedure, and it is well known that there is an eccentric violation and abuse, but you always hide yourself by reasoning that you cannot know what a procedural proposal will be and that it has a chance to speak for three minutes under the Rules of Procedure. That is why I find it extremely irresponsible not only of you, but of all the Members who are also misusing it in this way – now in the end you have rewarded it with praise when in fact you warn the government in some way not to abuse – I do not know what Tanko meant. It seems to me that it is time for the President of the National Assembly to take on a role, not only to respect the articles in the letter of the law, but also to use the rules of procedure in a manner that makes sense; this is that there is no more discussion and abuse of procedural procedures. Please take this into account for a procedural reason. This is my proposal to you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Möderndorfer. I agree with you. The procedural proposal is of such nature that when a Member requests it, I must give him my word, and I think that it is at each meeting that I am particularly aware that it is a three-minute time for you to make the most of it for the Members and Members to talk about the content, not the procedural proposal. My proposal has been a few times to change the rules of procedure for one minute on a procedural proposal and we will avoid it. In fact, it is not only that the opposition is exploiting this, but also all others who feel the need to give an answer are trying to find this way through a procedural proposal. But I think it's true, given the point of the agenda where the government reports on the catch, we need to focus on that. This is also in line with the Rules of Procedure and I think that this warning must be respected in the next presentations. I give the floor to Mr Sam Omerzel, Minister for Infrastructure and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished President of the National Assembly, colleagues from the Government, honourable Members and Members, welcome! The numbers in the reports can come out dry at certain times and so I ask you to really imagine what this meant for Slovenia, what this meant for the Slovenian economy and to what extent we have faced a natural disaster, as it has not yet been in this country. At first, we felt the power of desire and nature when the power went out. The electricity distribution system was the first to strike, and it was felt by citizens and citizens in that country at first. At a given point, we had 142 thousand customers without electricity. So out of 900,000 customers in Slovenia, 142 000 were without electricity. This is a number that we have never witnessed in Slovenia, and this is a number that we have never actually reached in history. In recovery itself and in the process of electricity distribution itself, we must be aware that, in fact, if we look at the water itself, more than 3,000 100 kilometres of water damaged or damaged have been partially damaged, damaged, the need for full recovery on completely new routes. If we look at the damage caused by electricity distribution, we are talking about direct damage to infrastructure, this is estimated at €61 million today. If we go further to the transmission system itself, so we're talking about Eles, today's estimated price or cost is 12 million euros. We must be aware that, in fact, Eles, as the backbone of the electricity system, was at the limits of his capabilities and the new Bericovo-Krško transmission line was one of the key ensuring that the transmission system and the backbone of the electricity system did not fall. Otherwise, do you realize what would happen to Eles' fall as the backbone of the electrical system? There would be a perfect eclipse in Slovenia. The next step, or next point, where we faced the hearing and the consequences of the acorn, was on state roads. After we had a power outage, state roads and municipal roads arrived, which were completely non-transportable on certain sections. As of today, nearly €9 million has been directly estimated on state roads. At the worst point, more than 900 workers were involved within the DRSC, in addition to all others involved in the resolution of the situation, and over 450 machines that on the basis of the day-to-day resolution and re-establish the transport of state roads. Then, in the case of further damage in the economy that was not so direct media exposure, the system on the railways was the most affected. In fact, railways have suffered damage on certain sections, mainly in the upper structure. Practically, the whole part of the electrification was destroyed. Today, the damage to rail infrastructure is estimated at €41 million. So we're talking about the upper structure or the electricity, the lower structure itself has no serious injuries. Today's situation and resolution of the current situation in railway operations is actually at this level, that at all sections where electricity is destroyed, diesel locomotives are used and we are re-establishing infrastructure and services at this level so that we can service the economy so that this part of transport can take place normally. in particular as regards freight traffic. As far as passenger transport is concerned, it is largely serviced and replaced by bus transport. An important data in the rail sector is also the damage or additional cost of daily consumption of diesel locomotives, practically on a monthly railway base, they have to provide an additional €1.5 million for rehabilitation or for additional needs for diesel locomotives. With the rest of the infrastructure itself, so when we talk about Dars, the damage was smaller. In particular, security fences have been suffered here, but the highway itself is still important for safety. Here we have suffered damage somewhere in the ranking of €3.6 million. It should also be pointed out that in the area of cableways we have also suffered damage, but not directly related to damage to infrastructure and to the acorn, but related to the loss of electricity, and at this point this damage is estimated at around EUR 900 000. What is, of course, crucial in the continuation and further part of the rehabilitation of infrastructure and the overall impact on the economy, is the further damage to which we are awaiting an assessment, as regards damage to municipal roads and direct impact and damage in the economy. These assessments are yet to come, and we do not have them yet, and these assessments are being prepared. And of course, a key and very important part: the rehabilitation itself is in progress, infrastructure is being established. It is important, of course, how we will ensure only the financing and return of this infrastructure to its original form. In the area of electricity system infrastructure, in fact, if we look at the resources, they will be provided in one part of the insurance, in the other part of the company's own resources, and in the third part from the long-term favourable credits of the European Investment Bank or other commercial loans. In the area of infrastructure, where the country is directly owned, we are talking about the infrastructure of railways and state roads here; in this area, I hope that we will be able to manage enough courage and courage to rent credits and invest in the reconstruction of state infrastructure. In particular, we are counting here on favourable loans, long-term loans, on favourable terms, with a good interest rate and moratoriums on the part of the European Investment Bank. As far as the procedures themselves are concerned, the recovery itself and the next steps. The intervention law is in Parliament today, and we will say more about it. The working group is working with full steps forward, it is just one of the first of the following obligations that await us. Of course, we want this working group to take further steps, in addition to establishing a legal basis on the basis of these laws, which will be dealt with today, then also to undertake operational implementation, procedures and programmes on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u15	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mr Zoran Klemenčič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u16	Dear Members and Members! In February, Slovenia faced one of the biggest natural disasters so far, both in scale, duration and consequences. In my performance, I will focus mainly on the action of the security and rescue forces during this period and will present some more specific information. First the floods, then the high snow and thirst that spread to most of Slovenia caused the most damage to forests, electricity infrastructure systems and the indirect closure of a large number of roads and the impoverishment of rail transport. In such circumstances, certain areas have been cut off from the world, without electricity, regular water supply, heating and telecommunications. The characteristic of the weather between January 30th and February 5th was that the combination of phenomena that caused enormous consequences and damage was very unpleasant, long-lasting and intense. Due to the occasional snowfall of appliances and electrical and telecommunications lines in most of Slovenia, it was not only the glands but also the snow which caused additional overloads. The consequences of the weather situation are very wide and diverse. In the upper regions of Gorenjska and in the northwestern part of the country there were major problems due to extremely large quantities of new-western snow, there was a very high risk of snow beaches. In the Illyrian-Bistrian region, the river River was initially flooded with tributaries, and later on February 2nd, the ground water also flooded the Pivški valley, where the floods had lingered and increased even due to the new rainfall in recent days and the saturation of the karst underground. Others, except for the coast of Koper, Goriška, Kras and Vipavska Valley, caused enormous consequences and damage in combination with snow, and practically endangered life in many ways. The security and rescue forces were first activated on the night of January 31st in the Illyrian-Bistrian area and due to a yearning in the area of Notranjska. Due to the consequences of the greed, protection and rescue activities in Notranjska were strengthened on 1 February and more on 2 February. As of 2 February, the greed has caused growing problems elsewhere, and in particular in the central part of the country, and activities have been carried out to a large extent elsewhere. Many in Notranjska and elsewhere already ran out of electricity on 31 January. As of 1 February, transport has also been more and more impressed. In Notranj, rail traffic was halted, and there were growing problems in rail transport elsewhere. Because of the downed tree, many roads were untransportable. In Gorenjska they had the most problems in Jezerska and Sovodnje, where they were mostly cut off from the world without electricity and other connections for at least four days. There were still many such places in the country, most in the Notranj region and the higher areas of the North Sea region. There was no longer a possibility of provision of drinking water supplies due to the loss of electricity and, as a result, pumps. For all days in general, the worst situation in the entire interior region in the upper regions of the North Sea region, in particular in the Banjska Planota, in the mountain above Ajdovščina, in the region of Military, Cerkne and Idrija and in Gorenjska in the area of Lake and Sovodnoj. In these areas, the arable armor was also the most white. The situation was also serious in the majority of the Ljubljana region, especially in the logistic area and the rocky area and in the higher lying areas. The others were the most difficult in the higher areas of the western Styria, eastern Styria, Zasavska and Koroška regions. On 1 February, a State plan for flood protection and rescue in floods was already activated by the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the south-eastern part of the country, which made sense later also for the implementation of protection and rescue with an ever-increasing hunger, for which the plan at national level was not produced because the assessment of threats at national level did not require this. On this basis, professional and, in particular, voluntary firefighting and other rescue units, utility, road and other services have already been activated at the outset, and in view of the consequences of electricity distribution and other companies. Since 1 February, the Slovenian Army has also been involved in the rescue. On 2 February, Slovenia asked for assistance from the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism, which proved to be the right decision, on the basis of the situation in which 15 % of the population was left without electricity. Since a large number of fallen trees – resulting in the non-transportability of roads and the failure of the electricity network – required the involvement of a large number of rescue workers, fire extinguishers and motor saws and other rescue equipment, the activation of the state plan for protection and rescue at floods also allowed the movement of firefighting units from the unhazard parts of Slovenia to the affected areas. For example, on 5 February, 350 firefighters were sent from Pomurje and Podrav to help the interior region with 70 fire extinguishers, 128 motor saws and 91 electrical generators replaced by firefighters from the Posavska, Lower, Coastal, Belokranj, Celje and Gornji regions in the following days. From the beginning of the capture until 14 February, when the Civil Protection Commander ordered the end of the intervention on the basis of the State Flood Protection and Rescue Plan, more than 60 000 rescuers, volunteers and others were included together. The most involved were firefighters – 35 thousand, over 5,000 600 members of the Slovenian Army, slightly less than 1,000 600 members of headquarters and civil protection units, 11 thousand 300 public service personnel, almost 2,000 members of various voluntary organizations such as the Red Cross, Karitas, campers, scouts and others. In order to provide electricity for the most urgent needs of the affected population and for the operation of drinking water pumps, up to and including 9 February, 380 smaller and larger power generators were installed on affected areas in Slovenia. This number has grown to more than a thousand aggregates since that date. In view of the difficult situation caused by the glands in most parts of the country, as I have already said, the Republic of Slovenia requested the assistance of other countries through the Emergency Response Coordination Centre of the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism on 2 February. Several countries responded immediately to the request for 100 electric generators. In view of the slow improvement and the occasional deterioration of the situation in some parts of Slovenia, the State completed its request for assistance on 5 February 2014 with the demand for additional high-performance electrical aggregates. On 3 February, Austria, Germany and the Czech Republic responded immediately via the Civil Protection Mechanism of the European Union and arrived in Slovenia with 31 aggregates and teams. In the following days, additional aggregates from Germany and assistance from Poland, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia and Serbia arrived. We also received assistance through NGOs and other organisations from Croatia through Croatian electricity and the donation of aggregates from the United States of America. Assistance in aggregates was also offered by France, Bulgaria and Kosovo, but the aggregates at the time of receipt of the offer did not meet the needs on the ground, so we thanked for that. Currently, there are 113 foreign aggregates in Slovenia from international aid, of which 14 are aggregates through the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism and 99 aggregates received through bilateral cooperation agreements on protection against natural and other disasters. In view of the above, it is estimated that the decision to apply for international aid has proved to be correct and effective. In view of the situation, it is estimated that effective measures have been taken to protect human lives, with the need to re-expose voluntary and professional firefighters, other paramedics, members of Civil Protection, the Slovenian Armed Forces, as well as employees of electricity distribution companies, railways, utilities and other companies facing efforts to remedy the consequences of the capture. Once the intervention is completed, the analysis will show whether and in what part of the disaster protection system needs to be upgraded and made even more effective. In this context, I would like to touch on the two issues that have been most exposed to the public, namely the powers of local communities and the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the protection and resolution system. In the system of protection against natural and other disasters, both in us and in European countries, some fundamental principles have been established, such as the principle of jurisdiction and the principle of graduality, since only in this way can it be effectively dealt with with with the consequences of natural disasters. The principle of competence means that in our case, first of all, they are in the rescue system for the protection and resolution of the local community concerned, which they have at their disposal in their area. If these are not sufficient, forces at the regional level shall be gradually involved in the resolution, where the regional civil protection headquarters are organised. However, if additional forces are needed, a decision may be taken at the level of the State to include forces from other areas and, where appropriate, the Slovenian Armed Forces, which have specific plans to do so. To what extent individual local communities or mayors have not actually assessed the situation and have therefore not acted in a timely manner, the analyses will show. However, the fact is that in cases where there have been apparent problems, the state civil protection headquarters has reacted and has offered both experienced commanders and additional forces from other regions to the most affected areas. According to our estimates, the Slovenian army was involved in a timely manner, from 1 February onward, and in the light of day-to-day needs to an ever-increasing extent. The total level of involvement of both members and material assets has been the largest so far, with a total participation of 5 000 614 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, some still participating in the Mountain Field, 650 field and cargo vehicles used, the use of light armoured Valuk vehicles made available to over 100 units available to the Slovenian Armed Forces and, last but not least, the laundry in the area of Notranjska. The fact is that in the event of natural disasters, for the first time, some military means have been used, such as Valuk armourers, but that due to the weather conditions, it was not possible to use, for example, helicopters to a greater extent, which could significantly help transport assets to remote areas. However, in terms of the extent of the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces, we must stress that there are both human and material constraints and that the Slovenian Armed Forces cannot replace the forces for protection and rescue, but can, with their capabilities, where the so-called zero capacity is most important, complement and assist in the effective implementation of resolution. Of course, such events as this sting is also an opportunity to improve the system and to integrate the Slovenian Army into the protection and rescue system, we will pay special attention to the analysis and find the necessary solutions. At this point in the Ministry of Defence and the Administration for Protection and Resolution, we pay particular attention to the assessment of damage. On the basis of Articles 7 and 45 of the Regulation on the methodology for the assessment of damage to goods, the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decision on the assessment of damage to goods caused by floods, high snow and acorn. It called on the affected municipalities, the competent ministries and state authorities and the Slovenian Institute of Forests and others to start the process of assessing damage to agricultural land and forests, to assess partial damage to buildings and to assess damage to construction, engineering facilities, transport infrastructure, telecommunications and electricity infrastructure, water facilities, etc. The task is to be carried out intensively and the competent commissions must complete their work in the field by 14 March at the latest. On this occasion, I would like to thank and acknowledge once again all rescue workers, voluntary and professional firefighters, members of Civil Protection and other rescue services, employees of the Department of Protection and Rescue, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, employees of the electricity distribution, road, utility and other public services, foresters, policemen and all others who have participated with great sacrifice in protecting people and property. Thank you also goes to foreign countries and rescuers who have unselfishly helped in this venture. At the same time, thanks are also given to all citizens who have shown a high degree of tolerance, solidarity and willingness to help in these crisis situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u17	Thank you, too. I'm still giving the word "magic." Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u18	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to point out first between the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to mitigate damage following the recent severe natural disaster that it was very important for the rapid response and effective action of all competent services that the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, the Public and the Protection and Rescue Force has given timely warning of the risk of developing acorn and the increased amount of snow in northwestern Slovenia. At the event itself, the public was well informed and up-to-date about the current situation and the anticipated development of time and flood risk. Although the stomach caused enormous damage in the woods. According to estimates by the Slovenian Institute for Forests, the forest is damaged on the surface of about 500 000 hectares, 40% of the entire forest in Slovenia. The latest assessment of the damage resulting from field inspections of damaged forests previously unavailable shows that the quantities of damaged wood to be cut are higher than originally expected, about 7 million cubic metres. Of these, 31 % are roaches and 69 % are leaves. This quantity represents more than the annual quantity of wood cut in Slovenia in recent years, which is moving at 4 million cubic metres. This is how we estimate forest damage to some 194 million euros. This injury assessment shall include damage caused by the degradation of the wood mass which has been damaged, additional costs in cutting and harvesting due to damage to the forest composition, the assessment of the decrease, the cost of reforestation after cutting, the cost of additional care and preventive protection parts in the forests and the cost of establishing the transport of forest roads or trains and the cost of their rehabilitation. In addition to the direct damage and resulting damage to the wood, the damage is also very high, indicating that the broken tree makes it at least 6 thousand 300 kilometres, or more than half of all the forest roads in Slovenia, which is an additional obstacle to early recovery and makes it impossible for many to access hamlets, individual farms and damaged infrastructure facilities. Part of the indirect damage is also damage to watercourses, which are infested with piled branches and broken trees. The Environment Agency has intervened to clean up trees and swimming in watercourses, thus preventing further damage to later high waters. Today, most of the major watercourses have been cleaned, and cleaning of the ripples and cavities will take at least one year. In doing so, I would like to point out that during the natural disaster, the operational services of the Agency for the Environment with the Protection and Rescue Forces and the Slovenian Army were very well involved. The weather union has also caused damage in agriculture, mainly in grassland crops, and problems in farms have also been caused by the loss of electricity and poor transport roads. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has immediately launched activities for the most urgent elimination of damage and, in conjunction with other relevant institutions, in particular the Institute for Forests, the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, universities and other actors, it has been informed in detail of the first assessments of the extent of damage caused and started by examining the best way of urgent short- and long-term forest rehabilitation. In doing so, we have constantly warned at the Ministry, and we continue to point out that the safety of people, forest owners and all those who will address the rehabilitation of the damaged forest, as well as of others who are moving in the forest, is the first priority. Due to the danger and complexity of the parts, the removal of damaged trees can only be carried out by qualified forest owners who, after clearing the forest roads, will begin with the rapid harvesting of the most severely damaged trees in order to avoid the risk of multiplying lobulars which could cause, if not done in time, even greater damage than the acorn itself. At the beginning of the capture, the Slovenian Forestry Institute actively participated in intervention measures in the rehabilitation of acute problems, including firefighters, Civil Protection and municipalities, and actively informed the population of the dangers of movement in the natural environment and of the subsequent rehabilitation of the acorn. During the first days and after the start of the capture, he regularly prepared and reported on damage assessments. In the days immediately following the damage, it also produced forest rehabilitation priorities, all with the aim of preventing any further indirect damage to the restocking of sub-martials. It has issued general decisions for areas of maximum damage where individual selection of trees for sowing is not possible is pointless or too dangerous. In parallel, it conducts safe work courses in the forest and assists forest owners in organising rehabilitation. It also cooperates with all forest-related stakeholders. According to the latest information of the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund, all forest roads are already open in the state forests, and in areas where general decisions have been taken to implement the sanitary logging of damaged trees in the agglomeration, the parts are already ready for rehabilitation. In addition to the above-mentioned activities, I would also like to point out that the Ministry has approached the preparation of a business organisation model for the forestry and forestry sectors, on the basis of which we want to ensure that the damaged timber is removed from the forest as soon as possible at the time of recovery, thereby preventing its further degradation and organising the purchase of surplus wood on the market. To this end, a group of stakeholders, representatives of various institutions looking for the best organisational solutions, has also been set up. In the framework of the intervention law, which we will deal with later, we wanted to ensure, in particular, the speedy transport of forest roads, because this is essential because of the rehabilitation of other infrastructures and, in particular, because of access to damaged forests, in particular those which need to be cleaned up in time. This is why we have provided in the law that, when owners themselves do not clean roads, forest road managers can remove trees without the consent of the owners on whose land these roads are run. Furthermore, we assume that it is not necessary to obtain a building permit for the restoration of forest roads and that the acquisition of consensus is significantly simplified. However, where it is necessary to make trains in order to get the damaged eel out of the inaccessible areas, a simplified procedure or such train can be prepared without the consent or consent of the Institute of Forests. In the most affected areas, in the area of the four forestry units, we have retained the implementation of the January following previous existing decisions, so that sanitation cuts are anticipated first and only then the continuation of the regular cut. It is crucial that the law provides for the exemption from the payment of cadastral income for those forest areas that are completely destroyed – namely, this exemption will be valid for 30 years – and further for all areas where this sanitary logging or the indispensablely damaged wood is more than 50% of the 10-year cut and the cadastral income is relatively reduced. In addition, insurance undertakings which are covered by an agricultural activity and have suffered damage in the forest shall be allowed to apply a reduction in contributions or write off contributions. A programme to strengthen the Institute for Forests, the Environment Agency and the Agricultural Land Fund by activating the unemployed is also being prepared as quickly and as effectively as possible. As regards long-term forest rehabilitation, I would say that a detailed recovery plan for damaged forests is also being prepared at the Institute for Forests. In the case of cuts of damaged trees, priority shall be given to the establishment of transport of forest roads, fire roads and forest trains, in order to allow forest rehabilitation to begin, then areas of forests where damaged trees threaten lower lying facilities or infrastructure, then the damaged trees are made up of hedgehogs and then damaged trees along watercourses and in the vicinity of steep slopes which may interfere with flow. Finally, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment will use all available resources from the national budget and other resources to remedy the damage caused by natural disasters, including the preparation of measures in the rural development programme for the period 2014 to 2020 to co-finance the rehabilitation of damaged forests where it is required or where artificial forest restoration is required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u19	Thank you, too. I thank the President of the Government, the Minister for Infrastructure and Space and the Secretary of State for his report. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests after the short procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Proposal for amendments and complementing the Forest Act affects three important areas for more effective forest management and the prevention of illegal logging and related trade. First, it brings simplification on the one hand, on the other hand, the upgrading of the carrier system in order to better ensure the traceability of wood and more effective control of the competent authorities, as the carrier is introduced as a single document for all transports of forest forest varieties, not only when sold on the market. At the same time, it brings exceptionally for the transport of forest wood in single transport up to a quantity of 6 cubic metres of wood, if it is used for its own use, then the carrier is not required. In this case, the owner must keep the relevant records himself on the record sheet. Here I would like to point out that, due to the effects of the agglomerations or the extent of the agglomerations in the forests, the amendment of the Forest Act, as amended by the Home Committee, also provides an exception to the use of carriers during the time of the rehabilitation of forests, and in this first period from the entry into force of the Act until 13 April 2015, when only the instrument of use and transport with forest forest varieties can be used to track forest varieties instead of the carrier. This is some kind of record run by the owner at home. The certificate shall therefore be completed by the owner and within three days of the transport or disposal of the timber carried out at the latest, and the sample of this document or such records shall be published on the websites of the Ministry and the Institute. In doing so, we want these remedial measures to be as unburdened as possible at a time when we are struggling with these severe consequences. The second amendment of the Law on Forests relates to the distribution of tax assets to forest land, in accordance with the law governing the property tax. Then there is another change that I would like to mention, namely that a lateral penalty is taken away from wood if transport is carried out without a carrier, limited to only those transports that are above 10 cubic metres and the Agricultural Lands Fund is given the power to take over, store and sell this seized timber at a public auction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Jakob Presecnik, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests as its parent working body at its 1st meeting, on 31 February of this year. The discussion on the proposal took place under the impression of the natural disaster in early 2014, this year, caused by the adverse weather conditions of the national dimension with catastrophic consequences in the forests. With regard to the proposed provisions, some members of the Committee have expressed their conviction that the proposal for a law does not give rise to the expectation of simplification and is only a corrective measure whereby the Government seeks to remedy the errors resulting from insufficiently designed solutions and have been law-abiding without having been verified in advance how they will work in practice. With regard to Article 2, which provides that a carrier is not required for forest forest varieties obtained from forests owned by natural persons loaded on or transported by road, if their total quantity does not exceed 6 cubic metres, some members have warned that the proposed restriction is totally unnecessary and only entails an additional administrative burden on forest owners, since the forest owner will still have to have a decision on logging at the time of transport, if the transport is carried out by a neighbour, but will have to obtain the carrier. In this regard, the question is raised, on the basis of what criteria is a limit of 6 cubic metres and why it is necessary to restrict the forest owners who have a valid decision to cut in their forests by how many timbers they will load on the trailer. A rather controversial discussion was also held on the proposed solution whereby transport without a carrier is possible only if it is carried out by an extended circle of family members. Such a solution, according to some members of the Committee, is completely lifeless and prevents neighbouring aid. The following extensive discussion was held on the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment for the amendment of the Committee to Article 24 of the law proposing a moratorium on the implementation of transport vehicles by 30 April 2015. The purpose of the amendment is to allow the rapid and effective removal of damaged and damaged trees without administrative procedures, thereby ensuring the transportability of forest roads, preventing the spread of diseases and pests of forest trees, removing trees and the remains of damaged trees, trunks, trimmings and, in particular, removing trees that endanger the lives and property of people. The members of the committee, both from coalition and opposition parliamentary groups, supported the proposal to postpone the use of transporters for forest forest varieties, while some pointed out that the one-year moratorium on carriers is too short, since it will not be possible to remedy the effects of forest damage during this time. The president of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia also took part in the debate, which warned that due to the large quantity of non-quality wood, the surplus of supply on the market, which will put pressure on the prices of wood, will soon face a new problem, namely, to whom to sell this wood. It therefore called on the Ministry to take measures to halt the regular cut or stop imports of secans from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. A number of questions raised by the members of the Committee regarding the remediation of damage were answered by a representative of the Institute for Forests, who also explained how the decision to cut the damaged tree would take place during the recovery. Thus, in the areas affected by the capture, general decisions will be issued, so they will not apply to individual owners, but to a specific area where the catch was not of great magnitude, and individual decisions will be issued. The Committee also voted on the amendments of the SDS and NSI parliamentary groups, but did not adopt them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 113(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u24	Nice greetings to all present! In a little over half a year, we are now considering the new Forest Law for the third time. The fundamental objective pursued by the amendment of the law is to provide a legal basis for financing the maintenance of forest roads, to further implement the Regulation of the European Union and to monitor effectively and transparently the traceability of forest transport with forest varieties and thus to prevent the placing on the market of illegal timber. This law lays down the legal basis for the distribution of forest road maintenance funds from the property tax. However, for all transports of forest wood varieties, a carrier is required. The transporter is issued by the Institute for Forests of Slovenia to the forest forest ranger at the expense of the consignor. The transport of forest forest varieties from its own forest up to a maximum of 6 cubic metres may be carried out on the basis of a permit for felling trees issued by the Slovenian Institute of Forests in the administrative procedure. Forest owners who are natural persons shall keep data on their own use and transport with forest forest varieties on the record sheet. This is a major amendment to the amendment to the Law adopted at the June meeting of the National Assembly. This law simplifies the Institute of Transport and burdens forest owners to drive wood varieties for their own needs. Thus, the owner of the forest, which will be on the trailer up to 6 cubic metres, for example, will not need a transporter wood for its own use, but still needs a permit issued by the Slovenian Forestry Institute to cut trees. It must also keep all the data on the record sheet. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome this solution because it relieves natural persons and still provides for the control of the cut in Slovenian forests. Many times we say that the forest is our wealth and it is right to preserve the forest. Uncontrolled logging can also lead to forest collapse, but we know how long it takes to restore the forest. Unfortunately, however, the proposed novels of the Law on Forests coincide with a severe natural disaster that struck Slovenia early this month. There has already been a lot of talk about greed and all the problems, and the Committee on Agriculture, Economy, Food and the Environment, as a parent working body, has already adopted an amendment to the law which introduces a moratorium on implementation – transport – by 30 April 2015. This will facilitate the transport of damaged timber from damaged forests. On this occasion, I would particularly like to commend the team at the Ministry, which has practically drawn up the necessary proposals for amendments to the law, and also the members of the committee who have completed the amendment proposal in a constructive debate. At this point, however, it is most important to repair the damage that is huge in the forests and to clean up the wood and prevent the wood from falling and further damage. However, there is also a need for soundness of mind in this task, which environmentalists are particularly alert to. Hard trunks are in many cases shelter and food for many animals, caring for soil fertility, preventing erosion and caring for biodiversity in our forests. We need to be aware that leaves will also fall away much less than otherwise. It is estimated that 500 000 hectares of forests have been damaged, about 40% of forest areas. According to the first estimates, approximately 7 million cubic metres of wood were damaged for semen. In comparison, about 4 million cubic metres of wood are affected in Slovenia. That is why we will support the proposed amendment of the Forest Law in the Group of Social Democrats. More opinions and views will be put forward in the debate on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List will be presented by mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State, the co-workers and all the Members and Members present! The government has sent a novel of the Law on Forests to the National Assembly before the end of last year because, in the meantime, an ice-cold grip, the biggest natural disaster in recent decades, has taken place on the Committee to adapt to the situation and needs on the ground or in our forests. The first measure, which is necessary in view of the situation, is, of course, a simplified demonstration of the traceability of forest wood varieties. In the Civil Gazette, although we have proposed a three-year moratorium on the issue of transport vehicles in coordination. The Ministry provided for only a few months' delay in the original text, but the Ministry pointed out that this way of working is a step backwards from the European regulation which requires us to introduce traceability of wood. At the same time, the European Commission will also have to be informed. Finally, we agreed that the date by which forest owners will not need carriers is 30. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Of course, there is a commitment on all of us to monitor the recovery process in the Slovenian forests and, if necessary, to extend this deadline next year. On the other hand, attention is also needed to avoid a general decision as well as a scoping period — a period without carriers — of a gold pit for fraud, which would have carried out an illegal cut at the time of recovery, which had already taken place in practice years ago at the time of the snowfall. Another major novelty also lays down the legal basis for financing the maintenance of forest roads. Given the fact that 50 % of forest roads have been damaged, other sources of funding will also need to be provided. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that the Institute for Forests, which last employs almost 800 civil servants, should also play a coordinating and advisory role for forest owners and should focus on the tasks of rehabilitation and the establishment of a normal state. The farmers estimate that the damaged forests have half of all owners of Slovenian forests, which means almost 200,000 owners. The owners, who would organise their own work in a timely manner, are estimated to be only 30%. We therefore expect the Minister of Agriculture to take appropriate measures on this segment in accordance with the existing Article 29 of the Law on Forests. Almost half of the Articles of the Intervention Act, which will be dealt with under Point 2, also refers to measures that will enable faster forest rehabilitation. In the framework of the Law on Forests, however, in our view we have managed to capture those changes that at this moment are a good way to protect, protect and remedy our natural resources to the best extent possible. That is why we will support the amendment of the law in the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Forest Law, which we have before us, was originally prepared for a slightly different purpose, since it envisaged only simplification of the transport system, certain additional measures to improve the traceability of wood and the harmonisation of the Forest Law with last November's Real Estate Tax Act in the area of forest road maintenance fees. However, just during the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Forest Law, Slovenia was affected by a severe natural disaster, which also left much devastation in the forests. It has proved that neither the current nor proposed forestry arrangements allow for rapid and effective dealing with the consequences of such a scale of disaster. The amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment provided that transport of forest forest varieties would not have to be carried out by carriers during the period from the entry into force of the Act until 30 April 2015. Landowners will have to maintain data on the use and transport of forest forest varieties which will have to be maintained for another five years during this period. This will also meet all the conditions for effective forest rehabilitation. In view of the urgency of adopting and implementing such an arrangement, a letter was addressed to all Members of the Slovenian People's Party on the previous Monday for the signature of the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at which the amendment of the Law on Forests could be considered as soon as possible, enabling its adoption and speeding up its implementation. Unfortunately for us there was no response, with the extraordinary Members of New Slovenia and the unrelated Members of Mr Vogrin and Mr Simčič, but it was only in the coalition that it became aware that the situation on the ground was too critical to wait for the consideration and adoption of the proposed law until the March regular meeting of the National Assembly. So they prepared their request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, for which we also contributed signatures — better late than never. In addition to the intervention measure to impose a moratorium on carriers in the management of the consequences of the damage caused by the acorn, the proposed law also enforces some other more lasting solutions. In the Slovenian People's Party Group from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other competent services, we expect them to closely monitor the recovery process and prepare the remaining measures that will allow the processing of timber mainly in Slovenia. We also estimate that the period of validity of the moratorium on carriers will need to be extended in order to remedy the consequences of the acorn, as it is very difficult to believe that all consequences will be resolved within a good year. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect the Government or the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to prepare an appropriate amendment to the law by 30 April 2015 at the time of the implementation of this Act. Notwithstanding certain concerns, the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. All of you, welcome! Before us is the novel of the Law on Forests, which is also included in the package of measures to address the consequences of the natural disaster caused by the acorn in our forests. More detailed measures to remedy the effects of the ice catch are governed by the so-called intervention law. The content of the Law on Forests has been supplemented by an article that removes administrative barriers to the rapid rehabilitation of forests and the transport of forest transport. In order to facilitate the recovery of damage, it is therefore proposed in Article 24 with the added provision to simplify the traceability of forest forest varieties without carriers by the end of April 2015. By April 2015, carriers will need only state-owned forests, while other forest owners will have to fill in the logbooks in which they will record the quantity, type and purpose of the fell tree. This documentation will have to be kept for five years. This will ensure the necessary diligence in the traceability of wood and wood varieties required by the European Regulation, but we will not burden the owners with carriers. This measure will allow for the rapid and effective removal of damaged and damaged trees, which is particularly crucial in the case of jaundice to prevent the spread of disease and forest tree pests. In Slovenia we have already suffered a great deal of damage due to the undergraduates, according to the local Lubadars, which will cause much additional damage in the event of an untimely recovery. In addition to the so-called intervention provisions, the proposal contains provisions laying down the legal basis for the distribution of forest road maintenance resources under the collection of forest land tax at local community level. The bill also provides for criminal provisions to control infringements of article 24 of the Act. The law also provides for exceptions to the transport of up to 6 cubic metres of wood for own consumption. Some, particularly the opposition, consider that there should be no carriers for wood and wood products intended for their own consumption. However, here I should add that there is also a proposal for amending the Law on Forests of the current opposition, the then coalition, which is reflected in the Clearing House of 8. 2. In 2013, it contained a provision for a compulsory carrier, without any relief for its own needs. Members and Members of the DeSUS will be supported by the proposal of the Forest Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u32	Dear President, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! It was only a few months ago that we last decided on the amendment of the Law on Forests. We already opposed him in the New Slovenia Group because he introduced in particular additional bureaucratic obstacles to farmers and foresters of the Institute for Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The next novel we are considering is only making things worse. A new document, a new form, is being introduced, namely a record sheet on which the forest owner will have to keep data on his own use and transport with forest wood varieties and store it for five years. For Christian Democrats, it is most controversial that this additional bureaucracy is introduced only for private persons, natural persons of forest owners, and nothing changes for concessionaires in forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. With all the burdens of a Slovenian farmer, a higher cadastral income, a completely non-life real estate tax, a higher value added tax, it is still burdened by countless bureaucratic procedures and made even more impossible and difficult for him to work. By doing so, the applicant does not follow the audit report on the management of the forests of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which concluded for 2009 that there is a risk that not all forest forest varieties obtained from forests managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia are recorded. Members of New Slovenia have already proposed amendments in the previous amendment, which would only introduce transporters from forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia and would not burden private people with them. In addition, we have proposed some solutions to simplify the work of the owners and foresters of the Institute for Forests, and unfortunately the coalition has not been able to support any of our proposals on the Committee. Let me mention something else, nicely put, strange solutions. Although the applicant proposes that wood from its own forest for own use in a quantity of up to 6 cubic metres may be transported without a carrier, it is also very rigorous to determine who can drive it at all. Under all restrictions, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is still criminalizing inter-neighbourly aid and Christian Democrats are not the only ones to wonder where the limit is 6 cubic metres, why not 8 or 10. We call on the proposers to listen to the forest owners and remove the non-life provisions of this proposal, otherwise we will be recasting the law within a few months, which is not a good legislative practice. Members of New Slovenia support the agreement that, due to the damage caused by the recent introduction of vehicles, the introduction of vehicles is temporarily suspended, but we feel that one year is too short a period. Most owners will not be able to clean up all the wood at that time, because it is a huge damage to the surface. Christian Democrats will support the amendment of colleagues from the SDS, because they make sense and at least slightly improve the amendment. But we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u34	Good day to you all! Before the parliamentary holidays, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the Forest Act, which was part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's struggle against the grey economy. Although Novela was faced with heated debates and opposition. The competent minister promised that a new, coordinated novelty would be prepared to correct the most controversial articles of the law when introducing the carrier. This complements the existing wood traceability system in such a way that forest wood varieties are accompanied from forest to final buyer. In so doing, the competent authorities may have direct access to the information on the decisions issued, the cut and the carriers. In Positive Slovenia, we therefore support solutions, namely that the use of carriers is not mandatory if the forest owner transports forest wood varieties from his forest, the quantity of which in single transport does not exceed six cubic metres if the forest wood ranges are intended for its own use. In those cases, the transport of forest wood assortments must be accompanied by an original copy of the permit for cutting issued by the Slovenian Forestry Institute to the owner of the forest. The forest office will issue transport companies at the cost of the carrier. It is also established that a compulsory aside sanction is taken away from forest forest forest varieties if their total quantity exceeds 10 cubic metres and wood and wood products if their market value exceeds 1,000 euros. The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for handling seized and confiscated forest forest varieties, the purchase from the sale of harvested forest forest ranges at a public auction is intended for measures of public interest in the area of forestry – the construction and maintenance of forest roads, reconstruction and so on. The traceability of wood is intended to ensure a modified regime in such a way that forest wood varieties are monitored from forest to final buyer, while allowing the competent authorities to exercise field control direct access to the data on the cut and transport decisions issued. The bill also regulates the maintenance of forest roads, which is essential for forest management. Since the new law governing the property tax provides for the abolition of fees for the maintenance of forest roads, the law lays down the legal basis for the distribution of road maintenance resources under the collected forest land tax at the level of local communities. The purpose of today's extraordinary meeting is to adopt the law as quickly as possible, as it will help to prepare, inter alia, the consequences of February's ice catch. The consideration of the novel at the regular February meeting, as envisaged, would be recognised. The intervention measure must be taken as soon as possible. The natural disaster, which affected Slovenia at the end of January and in the first days of February, damaged Slovenian forests to the extent we do not remember. By amending the proposal as soon as possible, we want, of course, to allow for the rapid implementation of the necessary remedial works without administrative procedures, both forest owners and public forestry services; to enable, of course, the rapid and effective removal of damaged and damaged trees and thus to ensure the transport of forest roads, to prevent the spread of disease, to remove trees and so on. The rapid removal of damaged trees will also prevent lowering the quality and value of forest wood varieties. Thus, at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture held on 6 February, the draft law was supplemented by amendments to simplify administrative procedures and allow the rapid and effective removal of damaged and damaged trees. The Moratorium will, of course, be valid until 30 April 2015. However, I would like to commend here the constructive approach of the SLS Group, which, together with us or the coalition partner, has made a request to convene today's extraordinary meeting. In Positive Slovenia, of course, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have another presentation of the position. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support all measures that positively contribute to the resolution of the situation in Slovenian forests, forestry and Slovenian farms. The latest events in Slovenian forests indicate that we had some right in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the new Forest Act, which we prepared three months ago, and unfortunately was rejected by the government and the coalition. The law that the coalition now wants to adopt brings, in addition to the long-term penalties, more or less additional administrative obstacles to forest owners. We rightly expected that measures will be put in place during the rehabilitation period to enable forest owners to quickly, rationally and smoothly rehabilitate forests, as any bureaucratic obstruction would only increase the severe consequences of the capture. The procedures for locating wood for cutting, harvesting and transport should be substantially simplified. And what does the government propose today? It proposes to define Article 24 of the Act as an intervention article to simplify procedures while maintaining traceability of forest wood varieties. All well and well, if the content of the article were not in fact identical to our law, which the coalition rejected three months ago. What did we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party at that time? We have proposed a simple transport document written by the supplier and the buyer or recipient of forest wood varieties, we have reduced the penalties and the forest owners, without burdening them with the quantities of wood they can transport for their own purposes. Now the government is proposing an almost identical amendment, and we are pleased that we have pressed the path of a reasonable solution. Of course, it would be beautiful if we were done with this. Regrettably, the government has decided that the regulation in Article 24, namely without carriers, by reducing penalties and by transporting an unlimited amount of timber for its own purposes, will only apply to 30. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This deadline, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, is unrealistic, and by then the forests will certainly not be saved, even because we are talking about damage in the forests of catastrophic proportions. At the very least, what we should expect or what the law should stipulate is that such simplification applies until the end of the recovery of the consequences of the acorn. Given that the Government has written in Article 24 that, despite simplifications, the necessary traceability is still ensured, as required by the European Union regulation, we expect the Slovenian Democratic Party to continue to exercise common sense in the future after the rehabilitation of forests and to be easy to cut and transport without undue administrative obstacles. Now it is also the turn of rational removal of the consequences of the ice catch in Slovenian forests. The current injury assessment, according to Mr Orazm of the Institute for Forests, amounts to EUR 200 million. And we fear that this number is not yet complete and that it can even double. Taxation money intended for the rehabilitation of forests will have to be used carefully and transparently, while also following time efficiency. We propose that, at the time of addressing the consequences of the natural disaster of the national dimension, the ministry, until the end of the recovery of the consequences of the acorns, provide subsidies for planting, harvesting and youth care. Finally, once again, we are asking the Government: why do you burden forest owners who cut for their own needs and have a cut decision by limiting the possibility of transport to just 6 cubic metres? Why do you introduce paying carriers if you find that a simple transport charter ensures the necessary care as required by the European Union Regulation? Why do you impose disproportionately high penalties for offences that are several dozen times higher than the value of loaded wood? These are the questions you will have to answer; answer mainly to forest owners. We can't do more than we did. Our only hope is our amendments. But according to previous coalition experience, they're worse off. That's too bad. The damage is mainly for forest owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. First, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendments tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? He does. I see one wish after the debate. Mr. Tomaze Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u38	Thank you. Ministry representatives, Vice President, colleagues, colleague! Maybe one of the last attempts or maybe not, because if the coalition doesn't listen, we're going to meet with a new law that we're going to re- table in the SDS soon, because if a healthy farmer doesn't convince you, then there's going to be some other argument that the carrier, even though we already have a cut-off decision, we don't need a traffic charter. It's totally unnecessary. Most of all, it is unnecessary for forest owners. For this idea, which, unfortunately, I did not get an answer on the committee, since the carrier is not issued if it does not exceed 6 cubic metres. On the committee, I asked which experts and what profession and with what analysis and expertise came up with this idea of 6 cubic meters. Why not 4, why not 5, why not 8, why not 10? Who remembered this number, and why? Whether it's some semi-annual consumption of a smaller one-bedroom house, an example, building a 1980 year-old, and it's a six-year-old consumption, or some other professional analysis that will convince me that 6 cubic meters is the right number. Because I did not get a smart answer on the committee, respected proponents, representatives of the ministry, I hope that today you will teach the Slovenian public, especially the Slovenian farmer, the Slovenian forester and, in general, the Slovenian countryside, which this law is most tanning, why you decided to take this step. I got quite a few readings myself when I said that this point of 6 cubic meters was complete idiotism, they said I was offensive. I will apologize to all those who should be offended if I get the names of the experts, the names of the authorities, the names of the administrations, the names of the agencies that came with this number, and why they came with this number. As long as that is not the case, go to the field, ask people who use a healthy farmer’s brain every day in their work, and they will tell you that this is perfect – and I will hope to say it again – idiotism. More! Not only 6 cubic metres, you also wrote: "... they are intended for their own use and are transported by the owner of the forest, his spouse, the person with whom he lives in an extramarital community, a partner in a registered same-sex community or a person with whom he is related in a level or side line to the third knee." In short, while we do this again, on the other hand, we are destroying good neighbourly assistance, not only by this law, you are also preparing changes to the law on work in black, where, for example, you will be a neighbor only because his son or parent does not have a good tractor, but his friend has one, he can be deepened not only by one law, but by several laws. Even more senseless is this number 6 cubic metres for the carrier, when we talk about what you yourself said on the board, that it is a single cut or a single transport of wood. So it's not about the daily, not the weekly, not the monthly, not the summer, but the one-time ride. Example: If I had six strong brothers and sisters, how many times a day could I drive? But someone who doesn't have a living parent anymore has no siblings, and he's gonna have a problem with whatever he's doing with that truck. In short, I want to tell you that so many practical nonsensees you're going to do with this theoretical nonsense that people on the ground are going to have a headache. Of course, in the end it will be our fault, Members, who in the first place are all the same, we all accept nothing but foolishness and we all adopt such laws. No, I am determined against myself, and I will never support the law in such a form. Therefore, we have also proposed an amendment to delete the text "... if their total quantity does not exceed 6 cubic metres". In short, this provision is neither logical nor life or, in my opinion, even a jester from a healthy farm, but mainly from a Slovenian forester, a farmer. In short, another type of measures giving salt at the wound of the Slovenian countryside. I'm not going to talk about all the other taxes, and the wine law on real estate, and so on, because it would take time for someone who would probably say something else. In short, really, these 6 cubic meters for a single cut is total nonsense, with only family members being confined to it. Today it has been heard that farmers are thieves, with or without the touch that has affected us, small farmers who need wood to build a shelter or make it easier to spend the winter on the warm; that some thieves, almost small criminals, while this law and this carrier do not touch those who are the main problem of managing Slovenian forests – these are concessionists. On Monday, I will also ask the competent minister how the concessionaires in the state forests are doing, and what information I have received from the field, how these concessionaires work with the Slovenian forest, and also with the help of state institutions, we are not stealing wood, but also money and exporting it to Austria wood, and money probably somewhere else – we cannot solve this problem. Very interesting. We can solve or do even more foolish things; no, they must be given to ordinary people, to ordinary farmers to give new bureaucratic obstacles, while another segment, which is a key problem when we talk about the Law on Forests, the State concessionaries – no, there says the ministry, and that is not our problem, but that is not the solution. In short, in the entire law, even if we adopt our two amendments, both to Article 2, where we want to abolish this carrier to some extent, and so in Article 24, when we want this carrier to be used a little longer, this law has so much stupidity, from high crimes and fines to those nonsense about the tractor trailer, about those stupidities, about 10 centimeters where you put it on the thicker side – it will certainly make life easier for the Slovenian farmer, indeed.Oh, my God! In short, so much nonsense in this law that I really appeal to, my fellow Members and colleagues, those who have a good opinion on the Slovenian countryside, support this and the next amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party that we make this law at least a little more lifelike, a little more logical and much more anti-biocratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u39	Thank you very much. She asked the Mag for a word. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members, President! Let me first say, as I have already said on the parent board many times, but also from this place, that we have made changes to the law that we are discussing today and which we have on the table with representatives of all stakeholders in forestry and in the forest forest chain. We have prepared these comments together with representatives of the Union of Forest Owners, with the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber, with the Slovenian Institute of Forests, with all those which mean something in the Slovenian space, as regards interest in forestry as regards the profession. So I hope we have found some solutions that will achieve, for the first time, their purpose. In fact, in order to ensure traceability as regards the transport of timber and other objectives of the law, and in particular to ensure that they are made in a way that is first and foremost sustainable and feasible for these forest owners. I am sure of that because we have been supported in these changes to the law. The second thing I would like to say is precisely this amendment, on the proposal of an amendment by the Social Democratic Party proposing to delete 6 cubic metres. Look, the best thing is that there's one order, an order for everyone, and there's no exceptions. But for the exception, when this document is not necessary, this carrier is decided together. We have seen what European legislation imposes on us on the one hand, and on the other, what makes sense for owners. Together, we have agreed that this exception is necessary or reasonable only when it comes to own transport. Own transport is carried out by family members; of course, it is not necessary for the owner to perform or to drive a tractor, to drive a tractor and a trailer by another member of the family or by someone in a closer kinship. Together we agreed that 6 cubic metres is the limit of one transport with one good tractor and one big trailer. Far from all farmers having such powerful tractors and such large trailers! But some have bigger ones. These are the ones that they have also purchased, for example, especially in recent times when we have also encouraged such investments through the rural development programme and which are in fact, as far as forestry is concerned – not one of those small owners, we have 460 thousand forest owners and a million 200 hectares of forests and we can calculate what the average property is, very quickly. And here we are not talking about those small owners, but there are some such natural persons, farmers, forest owners living from forestry; and these also have more powerful machines, I agree, and trailers and can drive more at once, but because they are actually doing it really professionally, even for them it was acceptable that this limit is. But every time they drive wood, they'll also write a transporter. So what you've been asking about is, in my opinion, it doesn't make sense for this arrangement, but the key is that this restriction, or this exception, has been agreed with all the social partners, so that we also propose such a bill with some certainty that it is also acceptable to the land. Then I would still like to say, although I have explained this several times in this place, let it not be too much this time, because there have also been repeated conflicting claims. First, as regards various irregularities by concessionaires or the Fund for Agricultural Lands, which manages state forests. We, as the Ministry, are of course interested, or we are obliged to worry that with state property, including forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, we have also initiated appropriate procedures and that whenever we have received any information from the ground. Criminals too — or law enforcement authorities — have been handed over to certain cases where such acts have been suspected. However, as regards the traceability of timber from state forests, it has been repeatedly highlighted, and I repeat. Every log coming out of the state forest has a hard plate with an unrepeatable code. With these codes, before transporting this log from the truck or from the forest, it shall be communicated by hand to the Information System of the Institute of Forests and the Fund, which has been carried out precisely. So if you're on the sawmill and you're looking at the shade, you see which one's from the state forests and which one isn't, because it's not so marked. However, since the regulation was in fact – this marking and traceability lays down a regulation governing concessions in state forests and lays down more than the law – we have now clearly stated in these amendments to the law that this document accompanying timber from state forests must have all the elements, as the carrier also has, because the regulation has set out more, but we now call it explicit in the law and thus align these documents. Thus, the regulation cannot in any way prescribe less, nor would it ever be the intention of the State to prescribe less, but it is now the law that says so. So much for Mr. Lisco's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the replica and then Mr Robert Hrovat. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u42	Thank you. Just two items. First of all, it's about traceability. I hope that all Members will read Article 94. We have a decision on January and we have a charter on use and transport and now we have a carrier. Do not tell me that the carrier is that document, but without which it is not possible to talk about the traceability of Slovenian wood in Slovenian forests, please. And second. If it is the order of all, why is this law exclusively regarded as a partial attack on owners of private forests and concessionaires in state forests is not dealt with. If it is the order of all, make such a law that it is the order of all, but not the order that you work only in the smaller ones and criminalize them. Please stop doing this!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Croat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that there must be a document. We agree with a charter, whatever we call it. You call it a carrier, we would call it a charter that we would have completed on our own without the Institute of Forests, as you now define in Article 24. We also agree that traceability is needed, and it is definitely necessary. But you yourself wrote in Article 24 in your explanation that this ensures traceability, including by such an article as the 24th, where you simplify things – and it is right that you simplify them and that we support them. But why, then, after the expiry of this deadline that you have defined for one year, why then should you have a carrier to look for at the Forest Department and have to pay for it from then on? Why? Is that really what this is all about? Look, you're dementing yourself. You're talking about how traceability is needed and we're following a regulation of the European Union – okay, at the same time for one year, you're allowing this, but you're writing it down to allow traceability. But to go back to the amendment. Look, for all those who are watching and listening to us right now, and are forest owners, I probably can't explain to the coalition any more, because everyone is determined how they will vote. But look, the owner of the forest goes after a decision about cutting, for cutting in his own forest – in his own forest! -, gets a cut decision, goes into the woods, cuts, I don't know, I'll say 30, 50 spruce, plus some chicken bones, some beech and so on. And he is far from this forest, for example, his residence is 10 km or 15 km away, and now you give this forest owner a clear direction or if he does not do so, he will be punished. He can't drive more than 6 cubic metres at a time without a car. This is a classic case. But this forest is far from his residence, for example, I said 10, 15 km – and he is afraid by the tractor to drive along the main roads this wood and he will hire some transporter who will load this wood and then bring it home, shake it in his yard, on his lawn, and wait for it to burn. Now, listen up. What have you done with it? You made it impossible or restricted and bureaucraticly burdened. He will also have to pay, since more than 6 cubic metres will not be allowed to drive, this carrier will, of course, have to get a carrier or forest owner to drive this wood home. So unfair, unfair to the forest owners! Even though he has a cut decision, you're restricting him to drive only six cubits! And you wrote that in there so that he, his closest relatives, his brother, his sister, his husband, and so on. Look, this is really fun, making fun of the forest owners. You let them cut, it's their property, and you limit them to not driving more than six cubits. That's what we're opposed to. We would like these 6 cubic feet to be crossed, because that would mean that if you cut in your own forest on the basis of a decision on the cut, you get a carrier, this wood comes home to you, brings you to the sawmill — whatever. He didn't do anything wrong with that. He didn't do anything wrong. He's doing the right thing. I really have a feeling that he wants to point his finger at small farmers, small forest owners who provide themselves with firewood from these forests, or perhaps something to do at home or arrange — with their own wood. So why are we doing this? There's really no need for that. Take a look at those who carry a lot of goods and buy them on truck roads and so forth wood and smuggle! Therefore, we do not object to any instrument of transport, absolutely not, and we also agree with all the information that you have just stated in Article 24 that it must be on these, let's say, carriers, but that this carrier does not need to be paid by forest owners. Why would the Institute of Forests issue a carrier and charge it if they can change, it is only necessary to write clear rules on what will be written on this charter – the story is over. You have to keep it for inspection and everything for five years. And the tracking is ensured, and the cost is none. Here's the cost. And that's wrong. Look, I'll say that the Slovenian people are honest, caring, even if we're talking about the countryside. And from this point of view, it would not come from the view that everyone in the countryside, or most of the people who own forests, is a criminal. Look at the penalties you've imposed. That's crazy. Thirty thousand euros in fines. What's the value of wood on one truck?Oh, my God! That's ten times the price, there's no proportionality! So you really have to make one thought here and I appeal primarily, clearly, to the coalition: these six cubits were invented by someone. In the original law six months ago — not now — 8 months ago, 9, when you first came with the amendment of the Law on Forests, there was no restriction there, they all had to have a carrier. Of course, it is a coalition, I believe that you negotiated or coordinated around this law, and you said that it was really crazy that the forest owner could not transport his timber out of his forest on the basis of a decision on logging. And you figured it'd be good, okay, so let's make someone six cubicles. [[…]] I believe that was the case. I don't think there was any background here, but it was pure coordination within the coalition, because I actually know that you think this is crazy, too. Of course, you were confined to six cubic meters at the Ministry – but why? Why? What for? If there is a decision on logging, the wood will be used for its own purposes, then why are we doing this? Really, please reconsider before we vote on this amendment, whether it is wise to limit forest owners to 6 cubic metres, so that they can transport themselves, or tell them that the forest owner can transport timber for his own purposes by decision on logging and does not need anything at all. That's the way it would be. But, as I said earlier at the presentation of my position, I no longer have any great hope, we prepared amendments to the first marriage, to the first novel, we prepared our marriage, and it was rejected. We prepared the amendments on the committee, and they were rejected. The amendments are still in plenary session, and obviously they will be rejected again and we really don't know what we can do anymore. But traceability is assured, we agree that there must be a charter, but let's make it simple, let's make it simple. Don't complicate it! Do not give additional red tape or administrative burdens to ordinary people because there is no need. No need at all for this amendment. Now, what the Secretary of State said before. And I'll read you the position of forest owners. You said that you've coordinated with them and that you've aligned with them, and I think you've only coordinated and that you haven't aligned yourself, not even with the Forest Act. In fact, "We do not oppose timber carriers in advance," they wrote, "but it will be very quick to show if there are indeed 1 million cubic metres of illegally cut wood on the market and where it comes from" etc. And further on – that I will not read everything because it is a waste of time – "For the countless system as is now foreseen, we do not support it, because it will not justify the costs, but in particular it will not achieve its purpose. It will only cause additional costs and even greater bureaucracy of forestry." Now that you've come with a new marriage, all of this is covered in this marriage. Do you think it'll be different now? You know, if you're coordinating, if you're aligning with the forest owners, it doesn't mean that you've agreed, but no matter what, Slovenian farmer owns the forest, we can either agree or give him a starting point, that it's not a fraud, that it's not a fraud, that it's a job he's doing, that he's happy to help preserve the agricultural or forest landscape. We have to come from this, and these six cubes are definitely out of it. That is why we propose and really ask once again that this amendment of ours be supported and thus burdened the forest owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Now I see here a desire for a debate. Mrs. Iva Dimic. Here you go. And Mr. Mirko Brulc then.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, representatives of the Ministry! The New Slovenia delegation announced its support for the amendments of the SDS Group to the Forest Act. But I would like to ask you specifically if that is true. Yesterday I got a call from a farmer who's been hoarding wood in Postojnski, and the inspector told him that the wood on the train, if you know what I mean, on the forest road, doesn't need a truck for sale. Because as a carrier, you need a pick-up sheet or a buy-in sheet, and that's mertic. Then I also have a question about the problems with carriers – that it is not possible to ensure the traceability of all wood from Slovenian forests through carriers. Here I am thinking mainly of fine wood because it was attacked by the skulls during this time — carved wood, all weighed and sold, bathed in tone. But that's not what the carriers are predicting, this buyout, because it's not measured to cubic meters, but it's going to a ton. In short, Madam Secretary of State, this further confirms the right attitude of New Slovenia, that carriers are intended only to tighten the belt of a small owner, a small farmer, and that these carriers do not actually follow the purpose of what they are, because if they do not follow the purpose, I will tell the sold wood why it is necessary to introduce carriers up to 6 cubic metres – for what every farmer brings home. These carriers must follow only this wood which they bring home for domestic use. I'm calling again: let's think about it. We also supported the amendment in the Group of Members to keep the carriers for one year, which we think is only right at this time. But let's see if this carrier is really the right document because we have a cut decision, a cut decision. In the parliamentary group, I also always stress that we upgrade with some operational codes, or I do not know with what, these decisions and then be accompanied by wood. There is no need to introduce the registers as provided for by the law now and they will be additionally payable. I think it was all going too fast with these carriers that we wanted to respond too quickly or be liked by someone and we didn't think about it and we didn't anticipate all the problems. Once again: I really want to know what solutions you have for wood that sells or buys in tons. Plus, the inspector herself said that carriers are not needed, you know, and within the inspectorate they have two different interpretations. All those who have come to the inspectorate are former employees of the Customs Administration, these carriers are required. Similarly, users or supervisors themselves have two separate opinions and two interpretations of this law, which again suggests that the law is not understandable. I am sorry that in the National Assembly we adopt laws that are incomprehensible. This further confirms the fact that the law should be given to read, as in old Austria, first to the farmer and, if he understands it, then the law is understandable and can be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. The purpose of this law is certainly to protect a small farmer, with these documents to protect him. If we believe it or not, who was stolen in the woods — a farmer, a small farmer! The concessionaires are out there, I'd say, precisely because of what was said, because they're already so controlled that a small farmer will never be. I myself consulted with representatives of the forest economy in our area, who said, "We are not affected by this because we already have so much traceability that you can stop the truck anywhere and find out exactly where that cold is and where it's headed." Look, nobody here today has talked about criminals on any side, and so on. Those are hard words that don't belong here. That's why I think there's been a very much-liked debate today, when everything sucks, we destroy the farmer and so on, and we really want to protect him. One document is the January decision. I ask if by this decision of January someone can drive not ten times, 100 times out of the woods some kind of shade and always show a decision on the incision and say that it was not from there yesterday. It's a carriage. We had a situation when the police stopped the transporters, but they couldn't control anything but whether the vehicle was overloaded and whether the driver had a driver's license, but not where the wood was going, whose vehicle it was, and so on. I, too, ask the representatives of the Ministry to tell us what the cost of this carrier will be in euros to know. If this is such a huge cost to what it is – I know how much it is, but it is necessary to tell the media because we always talk about what a crazy cost it is. We are also talking about energy cards: you sell the house, for example, for 180,000 euros, and the cost of the energy card is 200 euros. But that's another story. Why six cubits? Such an arrangement is, of course, not with all 100,000 forest owners, but with verified ones, who find that 6 cubic meters is a normal cubature. But if he has a big machine, as has already been said, and for free, the representative here explains to you, because you can't hear if he has a huge machine, a huge trailer, he'll charge 20, 17, 15 cubic metres, but he'll have a carriage and the thing will be clean. For me, in all these debates, these family ties are really incomprehensible — why this is necessary, and I really don’t understand it. Why don't you take my neighbor home, I own the forest, and I'll never have a tractor. Well, I'm not the owner, but I'm setting a case. Everything else, of course, points me to the need for order in this area. This is what all, forest owners, workers, contractors in these forest environments want, and it has already been shown to us that already in this first period, which we are correcting with these documents, that a number of ways have stopped, that a lot of things have been prevented, and here we must commend the agriculture ministry. Not last time we're talking about another activity, the bakery industry. When the action went, control and found that so many tons of bread had been sold, they didn't buy a pound of flour; it is said that anyone who wanted could cheat in this country. And then those honest people who never had that purpose got hurt. So let's sort things out, and you'll see when this thing starts, in a year or two, no headaches will hurt – just the ones caught on fraud. And they have to pay. I always say slowly through the village, especially because I'm afraid of penalty points and punishments, because we're all great drivers and I can drive 100. No problem! There's got to be a case like this. In many countries in Europe, it is no longer necessary to have such sanctions because things are arranged because they know that fraud does not pay off and they do not think that I would do it. I will not support this amendment of the SDS, but the Social Democrats will support the amendment of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Reploco has Mr. Robert Croat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm replicating my buddy Brultz because I don't think he understood me very well. Look, we made it very clear at the beginning: we are not opposed to a document that must be accompanied by wood. We never said we were against it. However, we talked about the need to prepare only a document containing – see: date, place of issue, date of transport, departure from the site, supplier, carrier, date and place of loading, buyer or consignee, place of unloading, vehicle, type, quantity of forest wood varieties. This would be a document that would be fulfilled: the seller, the buyer, the driver. Form, non-payable carrier. You said before how much the truck would cost. It seems to me that around €5, I don't know if any more, but look, every extra cost is unnecessary. Unnecessary, because we could have arranged things in a different way. Why do we say we could? Because you have written this in Article 24, this moment will be possible from now on or from the moment the law enters into force, or one year from the end of April of the following year. And it is written that traceability is guaranteed and actually guaranteed. It is true, but the form will be published on the website and anyone can pull it down without going to the Institute of Forests, well, get the carrier I'm talking about, and it will be fulfilled and the thing will run, the traceability will, the cost will not, everything is okay. Do you understand? We do not agree in the details, but they are very important. One is an obligation, one is a carrier, if we call it that someone has to go look for, it has to be paid. Why if it's a form?Oh, my God! In Article 24, you speak of the possibility of doing so in the following year. We're just saying - then in the next amendment we'll talk more about it - let's keep it going, because it's okay. Here's the problem. Those six cubic feet I was talking about earlier. You know, you could let go of those 6 cubic meters and write that you have to have a decision on the cut. If you use wood from your forest for your own purposes, for fire or for anything else, you don't need a carriage. It's over! Look, it's my wood, I'm gonna bring it home myself, and I got the decision to cut down in my own forest — and that's it! That's all this is about. Why limit it to 6 cubic meters and even write what you then said to the following, even insists that closer relatives, etc., that only they can drive it. That's what I think. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u51	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u52	There are these differences between us, which are very small, but we would like to simplify, and you insist that there must be one administrative burden and one bureaucratic obstacle. This is where we split up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you! Nice greeting also ladies secretary of state with co-workers and co-workers! I will not repeat the position of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats to the law and to the amendment that we are considering, but in the context of the consideration of the novel of the Law on Forests, which is actually adopted directly after the natural grip, the acorn that has affected us, which has affected us, and would mediate, if you allow, some fascinating data, namely the thermal potential that we have at our disposal at this moment. Of course, I don't have so many friends among foresters, nor am I the owner of the forest myself, but I have some friends at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Ljubljana, more precisely, at the Department of Heat and Environmental Engineering, who are concerned about the destruction of Slovenian forests due to extreme weather conditions. The first assessments of the forestry sector point to the extraordinary quantities of trees for the emergency section of more than 4 million cubic metres. More than 4 million cubic feet [4 million cu m] of wood will have to be cut down or cleaned up. A smaller quantity of this wood will be used for technological purposes, although a large majority will be suitable primarily for use for energy purposes; and I want to talk about this now. It is extremely important that we make the most of this energy potential at home. What is this energy potential? Experts at that university calculated that this energy potential is about 8 terawatt hours 8 times 10 on 12 hours of war, or 8,000 billion hours of war. It's hard to imagine. That's why I'm going to make a comparison. This means as much heat as is produced by the thermal power plant Toplarna Ljubljana in about seven years for the purposes of remote heating Ljubljana. So seven years. Due to the technological barriers to this wood biomass, which is available in Slovenia, we are unable to usefully use it in a short time, but we must not allow this precious energy potential to disappear into exports at an unscrupulously low price. It is essential that decisions on the most efficient use of surplus wood are also based on professional solutions for energy purposes over a longer period. In the field of technology for efficient use of wood biomass, this Faculty, the Faculty of Engineering, has a lot of experience, so it offers them for this purpose, so it offers professional assistance to ministries and other institutions. If the Ministry of this letter is not yet in possession of my friends from the Faculty of Engineering, I will, Madam Secretary of State, if you allow me, have e-mails because we are writing a lot of each other, transmit this letter, and I believe it will benefit your ministry for further action. I repeat this fascinating number: 8 terawatt hours of energy potential means this wood, meaning these broken trees, which, of course, must be cleaned up in a relatively short time and transformed into energy potential with appropriate technologies. This was my contribution to this item on the agenda, and I think that it motivated at least someone to actually make an effort, to include a profession offering a hand, and that, when an accident occurred to us, despite what we can use to make use of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Allow me just a few answers or some comments, and there were also some questions. I would like to say that what Mrs Dimic said is that when it comes to the law currently in force, which is being amended, under the law currently in force, the carrier is considered necessary until the first sale. If the wood was sold on a truck and the owner or the one who took the wood from there had a delivery, whatever, a document, then the carrier was not required. I would also like to say that fine wood — as you mentioned — branches and up to an inch [10 cm] thick — is already exempt under the applicable law and in the future and is not required by the carrier. This is also important now that roads are being cleaned, after this acorn there is also a lot of this poultry, branches, pitchers, and it is important that the carrier is not required to do so. Then I would say that we had several coordination meetings following the entry into force of this law: the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Forestry Inspectorate and also the police – but in particular the two who are in charge of the procedures – precisely because we have unified the approach. Interpretation of principles should be the same, perhaps even in some cases for different circumstances, but there were also uniform guidelines for all inspection bodies in these procedures. This debate also gave me a starting point to explain something else when it was also exposed to whether transport from state forests was being monitored or adequately controlled. For example, just now there have been examples – we know that the decision is always on a single amount of wood, which is estimated when this is done, the actual amount, because it is impossible to fully assess it, can vary by 10%, can also do a little more. For example, in cases where the actual post-shipment cut from the state forest shows more logs than it was in the decision, this could also be denied by the current system, by the system that was in place in front of the carriers, if I am accurate. Now it's a fact that the driver, the one who drove for the concessionaire or the concessionaire himself, could say that it's from a private forest. The only way to really limit it is if you're driving yourself or your family, if you're driving for yourself, for your family, is if you're driving something, you just have to have a document. For example, even the one who drives for the forest economy will no longer come to this, we indirectly control the state forests or those that control the state forests, because now they will not be able to say that it drives to this and to that, because it will have to have a carrier for every transport, including for private wood. This exception is also intended for 6 cubic metres because those with larger trailers or more capable machines do not actually drive. No one – we do not have such private owners or farmers to pay for such a mechanism. They always drive for others. And then to separate what they drive for themselves, what for others, so there are no exceptions for them, and they have to have a carrier. As far as the cost is concerned, the system will, of course, be different. According to the law in force, a certain number was then issued to one decision, depending on the quantity of this wood covered, including the number of carriers. Now the system is so that the press will be purchased at the office. Why the department? Because the office will have these printed forms, these blocks are numbered, and you'll know which block was betrayed to someone. The cost for the carrier is essentially the cost of printing. Press costs – we know how much blocks cost. I wouldn't speculate here how many euros this is going to be for how many carriers, but that's as much as the usual cost of printing. This cost will also be prescribed by the minister precisely because it would not be above what is actually the material cost of printing. Then, of course, I am also grateful for this debate by Mr Horvath. I'd like to remind you once again, there were really good data on how many of these wood biomass is in the forest. Another information is very interesting, and the capacity of our cutting plants is enormous. The actual production of chopsticks reaches only, I don't know, a lower percentage – I can't tell you from my head, but I have it here and I can relay it later – depending on the rated power of these machines. So no matter what enormous damage we have suffered now, because what is now lying in the forest, these 7 million cubic metres, is essentially a large part of this wood that is devalued, more than normally this wood will be of lower quality, which will be suitable for pulp wood, wood, and wood. We have the capacity, our own, our own, to process all of this. I'll give you that completely. The fact is that our biggest manufacturers or users, our biggest players, as far as the market of these choppers are concerned, are buying this mass abroad from other countries. I hope that this idea, which we have mentioned in our opening speech – that we now have discussions with stakeholders in the entire chain, how to organise ourselves as soon as possible in order to clean up the forest, damaged wood from the forest, preserve its value or add as much value to it as possible in subsequent processes, and how, with other government measures that also allow two laws – one is a law on restricting the prevention of competition and the other is about controlling prices – these two laws are the basis for us to reach the market for a shorter, intervention time too, in order to prevent disturbances in the market that could arise if there were a sudden over-off offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I am opening the application for a debate on Article 2 and the amendment tabled to Article 2. The first one has the word, Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u58	Thank you very much. It really should be, especially at the thought of my fellow Croats, to make an announcement that it will not really appear that we are on two banks of the river. We all agree that we need a law of traceability. I also personally admit that when it came to the expression of the carrier, it disturbed me in the first stage. For me, it could be another document, it could be a delivery, a cargo manifest, and so on. But it came to this, perhaps all of this bothers us, to the expression of a carrier, to a new document based on the principle of energy cards – we can also call it that. But here we are all united. It's been almost a year now, and maybe we could use another term, and maybe we could do better and better, but okay. We all agree here. We also had thoughts about the wood that is for our own use. No, it's not true. There was no coalition argument. There was no controversy. But we suggested that that amount of wood be subdued by the profession. The section, specifically the representatives of the Forestry Chamber, I think that they have also presented the matter to the Committee, they have proposed 6 cubic metres. Maybe it was on the thumb, maybe it'd be 10, but okay. So, what I mean is, we are now at variance with these two elements in this document, and whether 6 cubic meters is the right amount or not. I propose this – with the amendment we have reached this moratorium by 2015 – let us leave the law as it is. This, of course, does not mean that in three months we will be amending the law again, but, if necessary, we will change it before the introduction of April 2015. In particular, I am talking about restricting wood for its own use, whether it is really the right amount or not of these 6 cubic metres. We ask the profession again, ask the representatives of the Forestry Chamber and, of course, we decide then. Today, of course, it would be wise to talk about how, in what way we will get this wood out of the woods, when the forest roads are released, where we will sell it, where we will store it, where we will store it, and so on, that this wood lying in the woods is removed as soon as possible, of course, so that we do not destroy it, but that we have purely on the basis of the program – if we already have an action plan Les is beautiful – that we do have some results from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hochevar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u60	Hello again! When I voted for that novel of the Law on Forests, when these so notorious carriers were introduced into our legal order, I really put it in good faith that we will make order in this area and that it will not be too much of a bureaucratic obstacle for forest owners as well. I have admitted many times that in practice they may not have come to life as our expectations were. That is why I also respect or appreciate these efforts of the Ministry when it wanted to make some corrections with this novel. But what is crucial now with this revised novel, which we have corrected on the National Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, is that, in the event of this natural disaster, there will be no need for small or small private forest owners to deal with carriers until 30 April 2015. Today I have quite a bad conscience: I am not a forest owner, but I live in the countryside and when I drive from work and work 3 km through the forest, but I see that farmers, that forest owners are working. Along the road there are tractors, cars, they sing motor saws, and here we basically distribute long and wide and listen to discussions about six or seven or eight cubits. What matters to me is that they will not need a carrier, I hope that this will help them to clean their forests as quickly as possible, but I regret to say that everyone is coming out of their environment. You know how it is. I'm afraid I don't know anyone in my succulent hills who can handle a trailer for more than six cubic metres. But I am a Member of the whole of Slovenia and those owners who have this and deal with it so that they will not be misled, I would just like to say that up to 30. 4. 2015 is not a relevant issue at all, but until then I call once again on the professional and competent ministry to rewind this information and, if necessary, to assess that this is an obstacle for small or any forest owners to this, until more than one year – we correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Katarina, when you drive across the woods and people work, you asked if they had carriages? We'd probably do a little something like this. And who is stupid: he who walks through the forest spends so much time discussing that the wood will rot in the forest before we make any order, or he who cuts and drives home doesn't ask anyone. I'm just wondering if those guys over there have carriers, or if they know what we're talking about. [[…]] They need it now, yeah. See, the European Regulation requires the necessary traceability and care. Other countries have this so arranged that they have a January decision and that the owner has at home a 5 year record of what was cut, quantity and variety. This is all the European regulation requires. All that's more, we made it up. I don't know if customs really has any other work, the police and inspection have no other job, and the foresters have no other job than to issue these vehicles and, of course, to count for these carriers. Now that this is the situation, all these foresters must go on the ground, and so many millions of cubits must decide or mark what is to be cut, what is not to be cut, and that as soon as possible and organize, help professionally to get this out of the woods as possible, so that there will be as few accidents as possible. [[…]] Not that we – as we always know to complicate with carriers, with the thickness, how much they can drive without vehicles, so that only close relatives can drive, but only up to 6 cubic metres. I don't know who made it up, so why six cubits for that limit? Because some bureaucrats and officials need it. Nothing else. The European Regulation does not require that. Look at what other countries have, and they are also subject to the same regulation. People laugh at us when they look at us, what we do. That's what Brulce said, too, that he doesn't have an account, why close relatives, if he doesn't, but you need a transporter. So who needs this? The State needs some transparency or traceability to establish that there is no tax evasion in another case or that there is no income to be derived from the State. In that case, no. The forest is from the owner, he pays all fees with cadastral income, property tax, and why would the state still control? However, other countries also have what they drive along the road, and the standard document is the delivery card on which this is written, this and this, as for the transport of any other material — all legal persons know. However, if it is necessary, the January decision should also be entered and, on the basis of this decision, the owners should be sought back and the number of cuts authorised and what varieties. Why now it is necessary to teach customs, to teach the police that they will know how to measure how much it is, to calculate how much is imposed, because the punishment is also very high if it does not drive as much as it is recorded in this transport document. Now tell me, on the truck, if they have less wood, say a beech or a gaber from 10 to 15 centimeters all wrong loaded on a big truck – who will calculate how many cubits is up there? When the customs officer stops, he'll call an expert, a woodsman, to calculate? Will he negotiate with that carrier or owner, or is it 6,5 or is it 5,9? I don't know why that's necessary. Now we're in the middle of this natural disaster when we have millions of this wood in the woods, and we said, but now we have a one-year leave, and we're going to be cleaning up for five years. Probably won't be worth it after the second year, 'cause nothing's gonna be worth that wood, we better leave it in the woods. I am more interested in what I asked on the committee yesterday, how the profession dealt with, how we will clean up, who and how, when we don't have experts, we don't have a mechanism to do it in due course, and we don't have a clue. As one profession says, now we have 2 million Iglavs, if we don't put this away in due course, we're going to have to clean up 10 million when the underlings multiply. And the damage will be greater because of this than the stomach. I didn't get an answer! You're probably an expert, a directorate, a ministry in these 14 days, setting up a strategy to get this out of the area. I also agree with my predecessor's colleague, who said we should deal with where we're going with this wood, how we're going to sell it, how we're going to get it on the market. The price of these wood varieties will fall, mainly to Austria and Italy. We don't have anything to do with us, only if we break into chops for Toplarna — but at what price? Or it will not be cheaper to move this from Bosnia and Romania, than I do not know where, because Toplarna also has its own economy. These are questions we should be dealing with, not whether a relative of the vehicle or not will be driving, or whether it will be 6 cubic metres or not, or whether it will be 10 centimeters or 12 centimeters. That's all, I'd say, after the CAP, sucks. The European Regulation specifically states that due diligence and traceability are needed. And other countries have this simple way of doing it. But what's driven out of state forests, whether the owner of the state still has such regulations, they can also color, I don't know, beech on gray, gaber on white or not, if they make it up, because it's theirs! Each owner should determine in what way he will follow those varieties that someone else will cut and sell in his name. It's such a shame we're talking about this, it's such a waste of time. We're wasting God's time, and we're wasting people's money.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see the hand and desire of Mr Joseph Kavticnik's debate. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u64	Thank you very much. It was kind of like listening to a fellow Lach. Look, you've asked a lot of questions, more questions than answers, and you've given some answers that make sense to take them into account. But, look, four years was your government, from 2004 to 2008, and then one year ago you ran this government, and we find that the wood industry in Slovenia has collapsed. You had good ideas, but you couldn't implement these ideas and you couldn't bring them out in this direction, so that the wood industry could relive with us to build your country and your economy in the woodworking industry, where you could hire 60,000 people, it's clear to everyone. We all know -- somehow we know now, we assume, but I don't know if we're calculating it exactly -- that there's a million cubic metres a year on black-cut wood and some kind of drift. We know. Now that something wants to happen, when we want to do something, and when we make a suggestion, when something starts to work, then we stand back right away because it's something new. We are in Slovenia right now for a change, just not now and not with me. Look, in Denmark, if they get someone to drive the blame, it's best to just move out, because everyone, everyone around here and everybody, has it right now for a potential killer and they don't have anything else to do in Denmark. With us, however, we are talking about any punishment. If we want to bring in a punishment, it's too much and it's awful right now, and we're gonna throw someone away, crush them, destroy them, and so on. Listen, don't do it wrong, don't do it wrong, and this thing will be fine, and it won't be punished! Not some kind of punishment! No punishment, listen, there's not supposed to be any forgiveness. No, it's not. I've done my time, I've been punished, and I can't do this anymore. You know, we don't ask ourselves, but look, if the forests were, and if the forest owners were so conscious, then this crop would be significantly smaller. The forests were — so the forest owners were not concerned about forests, nor were they concerned about forests. I live close by, there's a forest around me, and when I walk through the woods, I tell you my heart is breaking. He's tearing me in the heart because it's all lying down. What should be cut is not cut, cleaned, etc. The consequences of this capture are also as strong and greater because the forests were not cleaned, they were not as neat as they should be. So today we should also talk about what owners should do when they cut down, when they clean up that they have to clean up immediately, get a bunch of things together so that the skull doesn't come, etc. We should also talk about this; also about what the forest owners have to do, and if they do not do so, who will do it for them, and then they must pay for it. That's what we always say, but it gets very stuck when it comes to concreteisation. Look, there are a lot of words about this today, but the government has proposed a moratorium on these carriers. She proposed a moratorium on carriers, and that's enough for me. It's a lot, and I'll back it up. But I will not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The application is submitted to the debate, Mr Robert Hrovat, who will now receive the floor. After him, Mr. Ivan Simčič and then Mag. Tanja Strniša, Madam Secretary of State, and also Mr Michael Prevc. Here you go, Mr. Croat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I was encouraged by this last debate by my colleague Kavticnik. Look, you've just highlighted a topic that needs to be answered by an expert sitting there. So, is it really the forest owners who are responsible for the consequences of this capture that are so great? Is it true that forest owners take poor care of their forests? If that's true, they have to ask what they're doing at the Forest Department. Then it is necessary to ask the Ministry what they are doing; at the Directorates covering these things, it is necessary to ask what they are doing. So, Mr. Kavticnik, now you've opened up a story I don't believe in. Which I don't believe in! But you directly challenged the representatives of the Ministry or also the representative of the Institute of Forests. Now you've challenged forest inspection, etc. You know, I don't believe in your claims that the consequences of this are so great because forest owners didn't care about their forests. Look, it seems to me a little bit like that, over the thumb, like we said before, there was a lot of work done in this marriage, over the thumb. So I wouldn't argue as much in a hard form as you've put these things up. You know, at this amendment, we stopped because of six cubicles that will enter into force in one year. We are not only accepting this law for one year, but for a longer period of time. This Article 24 will be followed by the law that there will be a need for a carrier and that the penalties will be high and that these 6 cubic metres will no longer be possible and so on. You know, this law isn't just one article. However, I agree that this Article 24 is necessary at this point. Then I'll say something else, because we're going to be running out of time, but then I'd say something else, because you know, one year of this moratorium is going to be very little, in my opinion. We are talking about catastrophic conditions in Slovenian forests. And you think we're going to eliminate the consequences of this avarice in one year. Give me a break! That's impossible! It's science fiction! That is why we propose an amendment for the government to determine or they say when this deadline is. So, until the end of the recovery of the consequences of the acorn must apply this moratorium, which we are talking about today and we all agree with it. But not for a year. In one year, nothing will happen. I'm really asking you to think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Now it is taken from the context as if it were only because the forests were not cleansed to cause such damage. No! No! And that's why. I said: that's why. And probably these effects would be smaller if the forests were more cleansed, more cured, as they should be. What they are, but I've got the footage here, and you'll see. I walked through the woods before this, and I have recorded everything that our forests are like — abandoned, many times, everything that is cut, left lying on the ground, but not so much in the state, but in private forests.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Simčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! When we discuss in this oval room, many times a person wonders if we live here, sleep, and eat. We come from the countryside, and when we see what nature has done to these people in the forest, unfortunately even in the settlements, in the final grip, we look a little differently at this thing. And if I go back a little bit to the history of the Forest Law. July 2013 and 19. 12. In 2013, when we discussed the opposition's initiative on this law, I pointed out that it was 11. 11. In 2013, about 30,000 cubic metres of forest fell in Illyrian Bistrica, worth between a million and a half euros. And it passed. Well, it happened. Unfortunately, nature has taken care of the law, for the carriers and has taken care of nature, unfortunately, I must say, for our heating too. Nature took care of everything. Will we be able to take advantage of this — a slightly bigger and heavier problem or question? We're talking about six cubic feet of wood. How much is that? It's nine meters long, it's three feet wide, one meter wide, to figure out what that is. I would like to see this apartment house in Slovenia, which can be heated with these trees. The answer is you can go three times a day for six cubic meters. But look, the nature of the carrier has erased us, nature has taken care of it, and I think it's high time that we get real here and, above all, the proponents. The Law on Forests has somehow begun to appear when we are talking about millions of cubicles sold in black or white in neighbouring Austria. Today I ask you again, last time you didn't have a team to discuss. What are the results? Research into these millions of cubicles. This is where they always come in, and the words come in: police, customs, inspectorate. For God's sake, what can we say? There's nothing we can say but police, customs, inspectorate. Who's gonna clean the forest? What ways and forms we will accept are likely left to forest administrations and even to the congregations. And one suggestion. The forestite Ilirska Bistrica and Otiški Vrh are processing this wood biomass in Slovenia, so let us name it, which will be somewhere 70% for heating and for others, unfortunately less useful, purposes. Go to these people, find a common strategy – and then I can't see at Jelshana's border crossing every day how 20 truckers come to Slovenia. This has to change in the next year. Let's think like that, because otherwise this wood, without being cleansed, will be coal in the forest in a few thousand years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u72	Thank you for your words, also thank you honourable Members and Members for your discussions! Two explanations may not be too much. I would like to point out first again because it has been repeatedly mentioned that the European acquis says that forest owners, or anyone who places wood on the market, must, for the first time, have information on this and evidence on who sold the wood and that the wood was legally cut. In other countries, see, we have a special arrangement of a natural person – who is taxed by Qatari income – and this is the vast majority of forest owners. Since this method of taxation is flat-rate, such a forest owner is not obliged to issue an account if it is a sale to another natural person, there is no document and there is nothing wrong with it, it is legal. That is, while, contrary to other countries, where, say, for every timber sold, for each log sold, it is necessary to have invoices and evidence for each such traffic. In fact, this document by the carrier is only the information that must be collected under the European Regulation in order to achieve this objective of ensuring the system of due diligence. That's just the first explanation. However, I would still remember, and since the legality of the timber was legally cut, the decision was made. [[…]] However, carriers have had positive effects, regardless of all public reactions, including for forest owners, and data also show, the data of the Forestry Institute, that it is in the period from 1 August, according to the regulation of this law by the end of the year, the Institute issued 52 % more decisions on the permit for wood cutting. Thus, 52 % more decisions with a 17 % increase in the amount of 52 % more decisions and 17 % more wood in these decisions – from 1 August to the end of the year. [[…]] Of course, this, you may say, is also related to the pleasant autumn before this natural disaster, but still. This also shows that these documents create more order in this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to Mr. Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u74	Thank you very much again for your word, Madam Vice President. Good bye to all of you! I think we're going around these two amendments, which is Article 2 and Article 24, but in view of the debate that has been going on, it's a real debater right in front of me, it's a good thing to say a few things. One year ago, when we started talking about this Law on Forests, where everything revolved around these carriers, I have to say, I myself believed that this amended law and these carriers would actually achieve their objective and the requirement of the European Directive. As you mentioned earlier, the distinguished Secretary of State, when you said that the aim of the European Directive or the obligation of the European Directive was to determine exactly who the owner of the timber had sold, what the carriers were supposed to bring, and, of course, the legality of the timber cut. See, practice has shown below that, unfortunately, these carriers have not achieved their purpose. Personally, I have a completely different opinion about these carriers today than I did when we started talking about it. The fact is that the traceability of wood in this way, with such carriers, is not clear, and we know that the clear traceability of wood is actually only to the first buyer, not to the final buyer. We know that something needs to be fixed on this segment. However, as far as the legality of the wood cut is concerned, I do not believe and I think that the Institute of Forests here should react to this flossule, which has been mentioned all the time around these carriers, that a million cubic cubic metres of wood in Slovenia is cut to black. That's not true, that's not true! I was convinced by many good forest experts that this was not true that it was not true. You know how much wood that is! Of course, that's why you ask yourself, yes, but where are the inspectors? I am firmly convinced that in that environment of ours, on the slopes below Jelovica, there is very little on the Jelovica itself. I firmly believe that 90% of forest owners are very concerned about their forests, but I believe there are some of them that should have been provided by an inspection a long time ago. As far as these amendments are concerned. I don't think it's that critical right now, and I don't know how meaningful it is to talk about this limit of 6 cubic meters. True, 6 cubic metres is small and already slightly larger tractor with trailer can drive for domestic needs significantly more than 6 cubic metres. But this, of course, does not seem to me to be so important at this point, I think it is more important than the amendment to Article 24, where the applicants propose that the moratorium on the issue of carriers should be extended until the end of the repair of these injuries that have occurred in the forests. You know, whoever thinks that this rehabilitation will be completed by 30 April 2015, as far as the moratorium is concerned, is very wrong. This rehabilitation will last for a substantial length of time. Last but not least, after what the carriers have shown us so far, in the Slovenian People's Party, as I have presented in the position of the Group of Members, we have even said that we hope that, despite all of this, the Government of the Undertaking will end and come up with some other mechanism that will meet the requirements of the European Union. Maybe it's over. What will be the biggest problem in rehabilitating this concept, what will be the biggest problem for forest owners to deal with – not the carrier, but how will they sell this wood? Even if they sell it to Austria, even if they sell it to Italy, the problem in Slovenia will, of course, put this wood production on at least some suitable basis. It's gonna be a problem because the price of wood is going to fall terribly. The market will suddenly find a huge amount of wood, the price will fall and this is the biggest problem for me of these forest owners. The forest owners will do things thoroughly, and I'm not afraid that at some point in time not all these forests, that is to say, look again, I'm going to say, some more beautiful image than they have now, but the problem will be that this price of wood is going to fall horribly, terribly. This is it, and last but not least, the government will have another very important role to play here. This is said to have destroyed everything on certain sections, that is to say, once this wood is cleaned up, the clearings will open and these clearings will have to be treated. Here, of course, the owner will still need help from the Government to get some subsidies for necessary orchards and similar things. Of course, I will support this law myself today, and I will absolutely support it, but I am sure or hope that the Government will make a thorough change in this direction at this time, so that carriers in the form they are now will no longer be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Also a representative of the Government of Magister Tanja Strniš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I would like to explain two things to Mr Prevc. The first point is that, with the current law in force, we have not ensured the traceability of wood to the final buyer, this is true. Therefore, the carrier or this document is now envisaged at all stages up to the final buyer. That's one. Secondly, as to how much we have illegally cut or unrecorded cut [[…]] [[Incomprehensible]] We have three methods here, and I'll explain them now. [[…]] The Slovenian Forest Institute is accompanied by 100,000 sample plates across Slovenia. All trees shall be counted on these plates, measured how much they grow over ten years and then compared to how much they have been cut down on these same plots according to decisions or how much they have been taken according to decisions. And these figures showed a difference of 1.3 million cubic metres in the mid-2010. It's just one method. The second method is the method of the Forest Institute of Slovenia. They count how much wood is sold at home, how much wood is used for domestic consumption – statistics are used. They then take into account what is exported and deduct what is being imported. In this way they calculated that this illegal cut or undetected cut ranged between 600 and 700 thousand cubic metres. Then we all remember the Court of Auditors' audit, where they wrote in their report, but they checked this data, and I don't know what other data, but their assessment, if we believe the Court of Auditors to have checked the data, was that it was 27%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I now ask if anyone else would like to discuss it under Article 2. I see there's no one here to discuss it. We are moving on to the debate on Article 24 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Does anyone want to discuss it? Mr. Fox, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u78	Thank you. We are moving on to this article, which, according to the Government, is also an article that is part of this intervention law or these intervention measures. In the third indent, paragraph 1 of this Article states that, irrespective of the first and second paragraphs of this Article, which limits the application of this Act or of individual provisions as from 1 May of this year, the traceability of forest varieties other than forest forest varieties owned by the Republic of Slovenia shall, in order to remedy the consequences of the natural disaster of national proportions from the date of entry into force of this Act until 30 April 2015, be ensured in place of the carrier by means of a document on the use and transport of forest forest varieties. In short, the forest forest range from the forests of the Republic of Slovenia is protected again. Where we can look for this million that is disappearing, most of the wood, is again exempt from this law. And the words "instead of the carrier can" – that's the one: I wouldn't. What are you gonna do now: will you or won't you? We don't know. With the word "may" in marriage, we can play too much. I really want to know – if we can provide traceability in this year by means of a charter on the use and transport of forest varieties, which, according to the coalition, is the year when the most theft will occur in Slovenian forests, so this year the carrier should be in your opinion – whether this traceability also follows the provisions of European legislation. In short, it is very sad that, in fact, in 10 days for a year, a natural disaster has had to put into the future what a healthy farmer's mind has been telling great tribes in Slovenia for centuries. Carriers are unnecessary and their postponement is not only necessary for one year, but accept at least the SDS amendment, which says that until the final recovery the consequences of the agglomerations are not applied to the carrier. Those who are coming, here is colleague Daniel Krivec of Sosoča, I think that in 2004 – we know what was going on, we know what individual natural disasters were like. In Posavia we had, in Zasavje they had, and I probably let a lot of people go, and now we expect to see where it says: the national dimension – this acorn that was – that we will settle everything within a year. Your Honor, practice will show you quite differently. Therefore, at least accept these amendments, so that by the end of the recovery of the consequences of the adversarial carrier, if you are not already fair enough, this carrier will be put out of business until things can be settled, and in our opinion we know that carriers are not necessary. In short, if this is what you say it is an intervention law, that for one year you leave respect for traceability through carriers, then, respected Government: it is not a systemic solution, it is not an intervention solution, it is just an extension of the stupidity of something that is not necessary at all. And once again, this is a mockery of the Slovenian countryside. If you support the SDS amendment, at least some of these consequences will be easier to resolve, not only in 2014 and until 30 April 2015, but also in the coming years. Be reasonable, be practical, and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? Here you are, Mr. Croat, you have the floor and then the representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u80	Thank you very much again. Now, my time is up. If you do not support our amendment today, I predict that we will meet again here on 30 April next year because we will extend this deadline. I am predicting this now because we all find it impossible to repair such catastrophic damage in the forests in one year. We want to help, and therefore we propose an amendment to write down, instead of 30 April 2015, "until the end of the recovery of the consequences of the acorn". The Ministry or the Institute of Forests should then determine when the deadline is, and then this law shall cease to apply. If you don't, we'll meet again on April 15th or April 30th.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Tanya Strniša, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. The exemption for carriers is proposed because of the exceptional situation and because of the disaster and I fully agree with both Member Lisce and Member Croat that the rehabilitation will last for several years; but this rehabilitation has several phases and the first phase is the most crucial. It is necessary to remove 2 million cubic metres from the forest, Mr Hrvat said correctly. According to the rules of the profession in order to prevent the spread of mating, these damaged eels should be removed by 15 May. Of course, such a quantity cannot be removed in such a short period of time, so these decisions, general decisions or individual decisions that the institution will now make on that deadline will probably be extended later, and we will discuss this later in the intervention law and that such decisions can be extended. But the main cause of damage and threat to further damage in the forests must be done as soon as possible. This emergency situation, this threat of a new natural disaster, which this time would be caused not by desire, but by natural pests and diseases, is what is a threat and for which we are now looking for solutions and facilitated procedures, as not only for carriers, because we also have some other reliefs, then we will see, some other measures that constitute a derogation to the otherwise applicable legal order for the worst period of rehabilitation. It still seems important to me to stress that there is no exception for forests in state ownership. From state forests, whether they are managed or cut by concessionaires or if these forests, non-concession forests, are awarded by public invitation to tender to a farmer or to anyone else, will have to be transported by transporters from these forests. Of course, so that we have traceability, how much wood there is and what benefits come from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? I do not see any desire for further discussion, so I am concluding the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments half an hour after the end of item 2 of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to three. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR A SUPPLEMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE EFFECTS OF NATURAL ACCIDENTS BY THE CURRENT PROCEDURE The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative or representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, mag. Tanya Strnisha.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u84	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for the amendment of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. The reason for the preparation of the novel is to define the sting as a natural disaster for which the use of State budget funds under the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which lays down the conditions and modalities for the use of State budget funds in dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. The Public Finance Balance Act 2012 removed these provisions from the law, which constituted eligibility for State budget resources under this law for damage caused by adverse weather conditions. At that time, the aim was to reduce the socialisation of the risks to harmful events that are insecure. Let me remind you that this has also resulted in damage to the food supply in agriculture, as damage to the flow can be protected. The proposed amendment of the law ensures that measures can be implemented under the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters to remedy the consequences caused by glands on residential buildings, cultural monuments, agricultural economic facilities, forests or on matters for which the State authority or the municipality is entitled to remedy the consequences of this law. The amendment of this law is important that it is possible in the future if, for example, there is, for example, a real hope for everyone here, we sincerely hope not - if there is greater damage to the forest’s acorns in the future, that these measures will be implemented after this Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Zvonk Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u86	Dear Vice-President, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents as a parent labour force at its 35th emergency meeting on 25 February 2014. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and at the meeting of the Committee, its representative reiterated the legal system's consideration as to whether the proposed supplement was large enough for possible new disasters which would be the result of the greed. A representative of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development also participated in the debate, which stressed that the Commission had unanimously supported the proposal, but pointed out that the provision of resources in the State budget due to tight fiscal conditions in the last period did not follow the actual needs on the ground and the programmes adopted to address the consequences of past natural disasters. This is illustrated by the case of Soča, where recovery from the 2004 earthquake is likely to slow down due to the lack of funds. In view of the assessment by the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment that the gap between the necessary and the resources provided will only increase, the Commission considers that the question is whether the envisaged dynamics of the damage caused by the greed are realistically put in place and we will adopt a law that will not be implemented. The Commission points out, however, that the non-requirement of funds constitutes a longer period of recovery and this increases the level of resources needed to address the consequences of natural disasters. In a rather controversial debate on the provision of Article 1 and the proposal for an amendment of the Committee to this Article, by which it is unequivocally stipulated that in the case of housing facilities, cultural monuments, agricultural holdings and forests, private property and the property of the State or municipality, the members of the SDS Committee have pointed out that it is in the proposed provision, in addition to measures to remedy the effects of greed on cultural monuments, forests, etc. It is also essential to provide for the recovery of the consequences of the accident in the economy and on infrastructure facilities. In fact, damage to economic and infrastructure facilities is also very high and it would therefore be necessary, with the help of the State, to help the economy and infrastructure, as well as culture and forests. With regard to that comment, the representative of the Government pointed out in a broader explanation that the proposal for a law extends the effect of this law to the natural disaster of the stomach, but not to all areas where damage to the stomach could occur. The reason is that the laws already adopted provide for such large financial obligations which, due to very tight fiscal conditions, cannot be enforced. Thus, for 2014, €4.9 million is available in the budget under the IOC's items to deal with the consequences of natural disasters, but if we followed all the recovery programmes, we would only need €60 million this year. The question, or comments, of what the proposed amendment deals with and what the proposal for an intervention law on measures to remedy the effects of the greed between 30 January and 10 February 2014 or to what extent the proposed solutions are disguised in both proposals of the law, explained that the amendment in question does not affect the proposal for an intervention law in any way. The latter mainly regulates the necessary measures to eliminate this year's capture in all areas. Also in the field of economy and infrastructure. The purpose of this novel is to cover those disasters that cannot be protected: for example, forests cannot be protected against the acorn. On the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to include economic and infrastructure rehabilitation in the text of the Committee's amendment, the Committee voted and did not adopt it. However, he adopted his amendment summarizing the comment of the Legislative and Legal Service on Article 1 of the draft law. The Committee shall comply with 128. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also voted on the articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the law forming part of this report has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Kurnjek will be the first to present the position of the Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In opening, let me say that we will support in the National Gazette the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents. The consequences left behind by the stomach are natural disasters with the greatest material damage recorded on both infrastructure and other facilities as well as in nature. Unfortunately, the consequences of the accident have also been two fatalities, and the consequences will have to be addressed in order to ensure that no new victims or serious injuries will occur. Emergency circumstances in the event of natural disasters usually require the necessary measures to be taken to remedy the consequences of the policy. This must also be done through possible legislative changes. It must work quickly, efficiently, professionally and as uniformly as possible. One of the necessary changes at this time and in these circumstances is the amendment of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, which will define greed as the occurrence of adverse weather conditions as a natural disaster. This would, however, mean the possibility of implementing the necessary systemic measures to remedy the consequences of greed when the law is adopted. The proposed amendment to the law in some way restores to the law the dictatorship which was deleted by the application of the NUJF. Under the circumstances of this natural disaster, it may be considered that, instead of the new indent of the third paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which will now categorise only glands as a natural disaster, "the other adverse weather conditions" would also be recorded. In short, the Law, paragraph 4, would be rewritten in the same form, i.e. the second paragraph, which was deleted from the ZUJF. As we say, we will support the proposed amendment of the law in the National Gazette. In the end, we must all regret to note that any change in the legislation of any recurrence of a natural disaster cannot prevent such an dimension, but that the relevant legislation can prescribe appropriate preparedness for it, i.e. for an accident, and thus mitigate its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u89	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u90	Your Honor! The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters is intended to help to remedy the consequences of the ice catch more effectively. The bill is short, contains only one substantive provision, namely, the definition of a desire as a natural disaster. This makes it possible to ensure the implementation of measures to remedy the consequences of the acorn if it causes damage to housing facilities, cultural monuments, agricultural economic facilities, forests and other things for which the recovery of funds to remedy the consequences and the grounds of the existing law is justified by the State authority or the municipality. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we welcome the re-classification of the acorn among the causes of the natural disaster, but we wonder how the adoption of this law will contribute to a more effective resolution of the consequences of the acorns at the beginning of this month. Also, the set of facilities for which measures are being taken to remedy the consequences seems to be somewhat narrow, as the biggest damage was caused to the economy and public infrastructure in the last resort. The government responds with the view that the removal of the consequences on these segments is proposed in the intervention law that we will deal with later, and that the purpose of the proposed amendment to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents is to cover "those accidents which cannot be secured"; for example, we know that forests cannot be protected against the acorn. Of course, there are also financial reasons, as the ministry recognises that very little funding is available to address the consequences of natural disasters. Therefore, the question is also raised as to how and by what means this remediation of damage will be possible. Funding from the European Union Solidarity Fund and the budget reserve will not be sufficient. Regardless of what we say in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the law on the amendment of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u91	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia mag. Jana Jenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, allowing the preparation of programmes on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters and their consequences and the implementation of the other procedures defined in the law. Thus, the proposed amendment of the law will ensure the implementation of measures to remedy the consequences caused by glands on residential buildings, cultural monuments and on the economic facilities of the agricultural holding, in forests and in matters for which the recovery is justified by a State authority or a municipality to remedy the consequences of accidents under this law. For up to less than a month ago, in recent history, he has not caused as much damage as we have witnessed in these days. It is therefore necessary to include in the legislation on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters the glands where they cause damage to virtually all areas of life and throughout the country. Like all the laws proposed today, the bill will enter into force the following day after its publication, as this is necessary due to the speedy implementation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u93	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u94	Dear Chairman, Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Christian Democrats support the novel, which complements the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters by introducing the consequences of greed, if it causes damage to residential buildings, cultural monuments, economic facilities of the agricultural economy, forests or if it causes damage to other things. Restoration is the responsibility of the State authority or the municipality to remedy the consequences of accidents under this law. They may be allocated funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to remedy the damage under this Act. In doing so, we must draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points out that the provision of the novel could be problematic. In their view, in the future, the appropriateness and appropriateness of the proposed definition will depend on whether the system law can be applied and whether an additional intervention law will have to be adopted to remedy the consequences of a specific natural disaster due to greed. In our opinion, the opinion of the New Slovenia Group is that a system law is needed. We also share concern with those who have warned that the applicant has completely forgotten the damage to economic facilities when stating the damage. The Slovenian economy, which has already been severely affected by the crisis and its failure to resolve it, is also almost out of state aid. Christian Democrats are calling on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to correct the first impression of disaster resolution and to ensure that it will not happen again, I can say that it has been a shamefully long time since the aftermath of the 2004 earthquake. The law will be supported by Members of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u95	Thank you very much. On behalf of Positive Slovenia, Mr Branko Ficko will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u96	Have a nice hello again. Between 30 January and 10 February, according to the government's assessment, the sting caused one of the most extensive adverse events in recent decades. Virtually all social, economic and natural areas have suffered great damage. The government has therefore prepared a series of amendments to existing legislation and measures last week. The proposed amendment to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters at Systemic Level as a Natural Disaster also defines the stomach. The stomach as a natural phenomenon was not defined as a natural accident, but as the occurrence of adverse weather conditions, which was eliminated by the ZUJF. The appearance of the acorn is thus equivalent to other phenomena that are defined as natural disasters, such as earthquakes, snow and earth reptiles, intrusions or floods. The proposed amendment of the law thus provides a legal basis for the implementation of measures to remedy the consequences caused by the gland. It will therefore be possible to implement the removal of the consequences of the ice catch and its consequences. Pending the implementation of the amendments to the law, it is not possible to propose a programme to remedy the consequences of this capture and to carry out other procedures. That is why in Positive Slovenia we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Robi Hrovat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! At the end of January and in early February, he caused untold damage and we were faced with one of the worst natural disasters in the longer term. Unquestionably, this is the worst and biggest ice catch ever. The economy suffered a significant output loss, the most affected were small and medium-sized craftsmen who, even after the establishment of emergency electricity supplies, should not have switched to the overloaded network or aggregates that supplied households. The same applies to agriculture, especially larger farms. There was also the water supply. The ice catch caused serious disturbances by the supply of electricity and the worst was in the area of Elektra Primorska and Elektra Celje, where there were also tens of thousands of households without electricity. The weather grip, which has devastated much of Slovenia in recent days, has reminded us all of what is really important in life. Things that seemed to be self-evident, electricity, water, and a safe roof above the head yesterday have become unattainable to many overnight. The government has taken some measures so far, and today's amendment to the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters shows a step in the right direction. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that rapid action is needed to provide a legal basis for the early recovery of the effects of the ice catch, by providing the necessary means to restore transport and energy infrastructure, as well as the restoration of forest roads and trains, the rehabilitation of forests, the care and restoration of forest composition and the stimulation of forest owners, in conjunction with the professional approach to the revitalisation and rehabilitation of forest space. We expected the Ice Capture Recovery Programme to determine the type and extent of the renewal of energy, rail, transport and other infrastructure to be rebuilt or rebuilt and to have priority in the rehabilitation of energy infrastructure, where no electricity is provided from the network and the rehabilitation of rail infrastructure in areas of strategic importance for Slovenia as regards trans-shipment. Given the priorities we see, I find that the Government has decided on a different kind of order of priority. The Government has proposed that today's amendment of the law ensure the implementation of measures to remedy the consequences caused by glands on residential buildings, cultural monuments, agricultural economic facilities, forests and things for which the recovery is justified by the State authority or the municipality in order to remedy the consequences of accidents under this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we lack the means to rebuild infrastructure and to address the consequences in the economy. We obviously have different priorities in this part. If we are talking about implementing measures to remedy the effects of greed on infrastructure and the economy, the Government is proposing measures on cultural monuments. I say to him: understand him who is able to. The population and the economy need to act immediately and without delay, because we do not want any of the stories from the past to be repeated when the rehabilitations of the bureaucratic approach took place for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u99	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr Ljubica Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u100	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! In the Group of Social Democrats we support the completion of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, which is included in the list of natural disasters where State aid can be used to remedy the consequences. It is a natural disaster with consequences that cannot be previously protected, at least not entirely, and although years ago it seemed to be a local and time-limited damage to Slovenia because of its greed, this year's venture has shown that it can affect a large part of the country and even persists for several days. It is said that the risk assessments for the glands years ago were not appropriate. We agree with the complementary proposal for a precise supplement that emerged from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, which also takes into account the proposals of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We believe that, by amending the roof law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, the Government has started with systemic changes that are not only short-term or limited to one of the chosen concepts, as in the case of the law that will be dealt with in the next item of today's agenda. The emphasis on systemic changes is needed because, this morning, of the four government representatives who spoke about the report and the Government's actions to remedy the consequences of the greed, only one, this is the State Secretary from the Ministry of Defence, talked about the need to analyse the functioning of the system of protection against natural and other disasters and on this basis the necessary further systemic corrections. From the performances of the other three, it was possible to feel that the system was good, that it was working in the event of a recent accident, and now there is a need for some hundred and more million resources to remedy the consequences. We are of the opinion that the intervention law should only be the first measure to short-term remedy the consequences, and that the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to such disasters must be improved in the long term. Our proposals, for example some of them, are as follows. Firstly, there is certainly a need for a comprehensive analysis and an objective study of the functioning of the entire social and economic system in the country and not only of the system of protection against natural and other disasters. We have seen that some congregations have not been able to act in accordance with their jurisdiction in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. It is therefore necessary to amend legislation in the field of local self-government. Secondly, Slovenia does not have a defined critical infrastructure system and consequently does not have adequate measures to protect it. A European directive on critical infrastructure has been introduced into Slovenian legislation, and disputes about which ministry will be responsible for this have not led to the definition of what we see as critical infrastructure in Slovenia, nor how to protect it. In this context, it became clear that it was at least an electricity distribution system, a telecommunications system, a water infrastructure, a road and a rail infrastructure, of course also a fuel supply system, where, due to the good operation of Petrol, which operated with generators, this system was essentially operational and we have no problem with this, i.e. fuel supply. In the long run, thirdly, it will not be enough to spend money on re-establishing the power lines, but we should find out where better to put the cables into the ground, and we should necessarily ensure in the energy law, whether or not, that local energy concepts are in place to establish economically sound cogeneration of electricity and heat in local and municipal heating and power plants. It is not possible to allow cities with as many inhabitants as Postojna to run out of electricity for 10 days due to the collapse of state electricity and to be heated with aggregates. It is also clear that it will be necessary to introduce standardised cabinets to connect buildings either to an electrical network or to a generator without further processing. It will be necessary to draw up a state plan for protection and rescue on the stomach as a possible major natural disaster. This year's experience, particularly positive, could already be an appropriate basis for such a plan. Negative experiences as well. We believe that the work of the working group set up to address the consequences of the recent capture has not been completed at all and should also have systemic and long-term conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, today half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda – this is said to be the decision after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on follow-up measures in the mid-30s. JANUARY AND 10. IN FEBRUARY 2014 BY THE urgent procedure: The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Do we already have representatives of the government to present? Because I find that none of Ahasuerus' representatives are coming. [[…]] The Minister is among us, so we will wait a moment to continue to present our views. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government or to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u102	Madam President, thank you for saying so! Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for being a little breathed, but you have been very effective and working, so you surprised me a little bit, I thought I would have a little more time for this additional explanation. However, regardless – according to the working group which was established due to the consequences and damage caused in Slovenia by its greed. Ten. 2. An intervention group was convened where the president proposed a working group, 20. 2. We had a proposal or draft law approved by the Government, and yesterday we had an Infrastructure and Space Committee, where other labour bodies were also invited, and after a really intense debate, very constructive, I think we have brought a quality law to the National Assembly today. Above all, I think it is very important because, in fact, with the situation created in Slovenia, we have found that because of the similar situation in Slovenia, there has been some kind of legal void or area that we have not known so far, and that is why we have some shortcomings in the existing legislation. And the intervention law is the one that eliminates these shortcomings. In the very concept of intervention law, we have first analysed what is already covered by systemic legislation and what is the part that we have to solve with intervention law. Of course, a very important part of our group's work was communication and, in particular, the collection of all the proposals, the problems that have arisen on the ground, of all those who have been affected by this damage or by this natural disaster and the consequences of the greed. There were many proposals that were constructive, but not suitable for inclusion in the law, and there were many that were actually in the place for which we saw that there was no legal basis and then we included them in the law itself. The basic guide for the intervention law was, of course, a quick and effective solution to problems or situations on the ground, in particular that the remediation already under way, which is being implemented by intervention, will be carried out quickly and effectively and also legally. In the intervention law itself, if we look at the content, we have actually first looked at what areas are all affected and where that part is in the intervention law itself and what areas will be the ones eligible for reparation. The largest part of the damage was, of course, in infrastructure and forests; today, at the beginning of the meeting, we also reported in a little more detail on the damage caused and the current state of the country. What was most media monitoring and even in some way the most affected Slovenia was linked to the electricity system. I believe that we are all aware that the situation that we had at the beginning of the celery with 142 000 customers who lost electricity, the actual state that we do not remember in Slovenia, in fact 900 000 customers, were poor 20% of Slovenia, without electricity. So a situation we have not experienced in Slovenia. And the latest information today, today, we only have 60 more customers without electricity. So, the system is set up, the electricity system in Slovenia works, but of course we must be aware that the recovery itself and the establishment of the original state will continue for a long time. There are still some distributions and customers that still work on aggregates, we still keep on aggregates a certain part of distribution on the part of aggregates I thought I had a little more time at my disposal. [[…]] I certainly think that this debate that we had yesterday has been very constructive, I believe that these articles, which we also confirmed yesterday, are those that we need in particular, so that we can act effectively and have a legal basis. However, all further clarifications will, of course, be available in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Sam Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Yesterday, the Infrastructure and Space Committee, as a working mother body, addressed the proposal for a law on measures to remedy the effects of the greed between 30 January and 10 February 2014, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly has decided that a proposal for a law may be considered on an urgent basis. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel said that the intervention law had to be drawn up for the sake of capture, since there has been no such accident in the last 40 years and therefore we do not have adequate existing legislation to address the situation. The draft law deals mainly with areas which are not regulated by system law. The main objectives of the bill are the early implementation of the restoration of economic infrastructure and forests and the early recovery of damage to beneficiaries. Jošt Jakša, Director of Forestry, Fisheries and Fisheries, said that 500 000 hectares of forests were destroyed, representing 40 percent of all Slovenian forests. The Slovenian Forest Institute estimated that 193 million euros in damage occurred in Slovenian forests. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was presented by Andrej Kurent, who said that, according to their tasks and given the time frame available for the preparation of the opinion, they found that this was an intervention and temporary law which wished to regulate recovery as soon as possible after the natural disaster. She stressed that the law should nevertheless follow all the rules applicable to legislative activity. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, said that the Commission unanimously supported the proposed intervention law. In its written opinion, the Commission also takes note of the position of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supported and proposed two amendments to the law. All Members expressed their support for the bill in principle in the debate. Members of the opposition's kind stressed, however, that by submitting a bill to the legislative procedure, the purpose of their request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly had been reached, but at the same time pointed out that not all their proposals and guidelines were covered by the proposed legislative text. It was accepted that the law also extended to eliminating the effects of floods arising directly from the acorn, with the budget reserve increasing from €13 million to €15 million in this regard. Among other things, it was pointed out that the situation of operational volunteer firefighters should be regulated as some had difficulties with their absence from work at the time of the last intervention. For this reason, it was proposed that certain ratings should be regulated by law in the form of a reduction in insurance premiums and tax reliefs to those employers who have employed operational voluntary firefighters. The representative of the Ministry of Defence Darko Booth pointed out that the issue of the status of firefighters would be fully addressed on the home defence committee. The Committee then adopted the amendment of the SDS Group to the first Article and rejected the remaining amendments. The Committee also adopted 34 of its amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which the amendments are adopted is prepared and is an integral part of the report. After yesterday's full day's work, I would like to thank all the members and members of the committee, both opposition and coalition representatives, representatives of the government and the ministry, co-workers of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and expert members of the Committee. The work was very intensive and thorough, so that we were able to prepare the amended proposal for a plenary session in due time. Once again, thank you very much to all those involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Michael Prevc. Here you go, Mr. Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u106	Thanks again for saying that. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia introduced legislation a few days ago to speed up the elimination of the consequences of the recent ice catch. This law, as promised by the Government, is intended to regulate at least those urgent intervention and rescue measures to address the consequences of one of the worst natural disasters that has affected our country in recent decades. The current law on protection against natural disasters and, in particular, on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters does not fully address the scope of the measures for the case of acorn. It was therefore imperative to prepare a rapid and effective solution in the form of an intervention law. However, I must say that we expected much more from this law in the Slovenian People's Party. Above all, we expected the Government to provide significantly more money for such a severe natural disaster with such severe consequences. People rightly ask themselves how to provide several billions of dollars per night for the rehabilitation of banks, how to find millions of euros for various international advisers and bank rewards, by the way. However, when the state and its people are affected by such a severe deal that is measured in hundreds of millions, the government will not find more than 13 or now with corrections to the parent board of 15 million euros. The second thing that is also problematic in this law is its content. We were surprised to learn from the reading of the bill, for example, that, by the way, it overruns constitutionally guaranteed and protects the rights of landowners, that it introduces new commissions, which are already prescribed by other laws in relation to natural disasters, and that it changes certain powers. Following these mistakes and the inoperability of the proposed law, the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly, which commented on almost all the articles of the law and as a result of it all, was that the Law on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences between 30 January and 10 February 2014 was written yesterday by Members and the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly literally at the meeting of the home labour body, which took place from morning to late evening hours. Although the bill is significantly improved, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that its operational use is still at great stake. Above all, it seems problematic that this law extends to the third Ministry of Natural Disasters – so far covered by the Ministry of Defence and the Environment, and we know that there has already been a problem here, particularly with regard to coordination and competence – and now it is expanding to the third Ministry, says the Ministry of Infrastructure. By addressing the consequences of this natural disaster on transport and energy infrastructure, it appears that both the leadership and the composition of the Commission will now be self-employed at the Infrastructure Ministry, where they do not have concrete experience in doing so. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that by uniting the team, it would be within one ministry, as well as from the point of view of financing at least in the area of disaster management, that there could be a significant increase in efficiency at work. We are also convinced that a number of amendments will be needed in order to achieve the objective, as stated above, and that more money will have to be provided in the first place for this purpose. Who will you help if not your own people? Regardless of all the concerns I have raised, we will support this intervention law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us the proposal for a law on measures to remedy the consequences of the acorn, which affected a large part of our country less than a month ago. As the applicant has already said, the basic objective of the proposal is to implement the economic infrastructure and forests as soon as possible and to reimburse the beneficiaries as soon as possible. In order to do so, it is necessary to provide budgetary resources and to remove obstacles to procedures that could make it difficult to implement their measures. The government has taken responsibility and has taken immediate action on the issue of rehabilitation. It started working at the operational level at which immediate normalisation measures were implemented and then continued at the systemic and normative level. The proposal for a law before us is based on two principles: the principle of reparation for damage to all entities affected by greed, and the principle of speed, flexibility and transparency of procedures for the implementation of the necessary measures. The intervention law therefore focuses on areas of public procurement and mass valuation of property and areas not regulated by the System Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents. The intervention law will thus provide a legal basis for the provision of resources in the State budget to remedy the consequences of greed. From the state budget, the reserve for natural disasters will be provided immediately. The State will also ask for assistance from the European Union Solidarity Fund and one of the sources will be insurance amounts and favourable loans from the European Investment Bank. It will also allow for the recovery of damage caused by emergency intervention measures to be facilitated by procedures in the area of spatial and construction measures allowing for faster restoration of facilities. The review also lays down some of the adapted programmes of the active employment policy and the simplification of the rules relating to their implementation. Many people currently registered at the Employment Institute will be able to be included in the rehabilitation programme. While employment will only be for a certain period of time, it will restore confidence in itself and the country to many. The intervention law also touches on specific arrangements for determining cadastral income, as we know that forests will be treated for 20 years or more, meaning less or less cadastral income for forest owners for as long as forests do not grow. At the same time, the proposal allows for the acceleration of all administrative and other procedures relating to the implementation of the measures, as it provides that all procedures to remedy the consequences of a request by both the administrative authorities and the State Audit Commission must be pursued as a matter of priority. The bill also addresses the issue of energy accounting in situations where electricity supply has been disrupted. In the area of forests, the intervention law allows urgent measures to be taken to establish forest roads and forest trains and emergency measures to prevent the spread and repression of pests in forests. The heavy and decaying wood and the incoming warming are ideal conditions for the smooth development of pests, which must be prevented as another additional natural disaster can occur if the pests multiply too much. It is therefore necessary to remove such fallen wood as soon as possible on forest roads or trains. Perhaps we could also consider the option of allowing those who are socially threatened to provide fire in forests that no one cares about themselves to make two good parts at once: the forests would be cleaned up and the aid needed would provide free heating. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Master Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u110	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Slovenia is a very special country, unfortunately perhaps a little bit more east than we are, where, unfortunately, many things are also being resolved by presidential decrees, as we know very few European countries that would change legislation in the face of crises and natural disasters and in this way only create a basis for action by the State. Our goal, our common objective in this House, should be to have such legislation that allows the country to act effectively in all circumstances. As the practice in Slovenia shows, almost every natural disaster we adopt intervention laws. When the Government comes before Parliament by means of an intervention law, it first and foremost proves that it is unable to act on the basis of existing laws and that it has not been able to find out in time. Today we are wasting valuable time because we are just preparing a basis for action. Practice shows that, as I said, almost every emergency situation is resolved by intervention laws. Why do we never wonder who did not implement the existing legislation and what was the control over the implementation of this already existing legislation? In all accidents, the Government seems to react effectively and quickly when it submits an intervention law before Members. That's just the way it looks. As I said, we never ask ourselves what has been done wrong, that we need an intervention law at all. We often adopt intervention laws to cover up the inability of those who should implement existing legislation, or to cover up the fact that some laws have been passed too quickly in the past and are not well thought out. The government by proposing an intervention law works, of course, the impression that action, but adopting a law is not an action, but merely preparing the basis for action. Of course, the foundations should have been prepared long before an extraordinary event occurred. Our common goal must be to adopt all legislation with due care and care in such a way as to enable the country to operate under extraordinary measures, in any event. The intervention law before us today also does not constitute systemic solutions that would enable the state to act effectively in similar disasters in the future. This is also illustrated by a number of comments from the Legislative and Legal Services, which point to its many substantive and nomotechnic shortcomings. If I touch only some of the provisions of the intervention law, then I can say that, in determining the cadastral income, Christian Democrats to the Government should propose that in forests where sanitary logging is necessary, the cadastral income should be reduced by any percentage of the damaged forest and not only for those so damaged that the necessary sanitary cuts exceed 50% of the 10-year possible cut. In the New Slovenia Group, we are somewhat disappointed that the proposal for an intervention law does not include the possibility of cancelling the property tax. On the other hand, we are pleased that the Government has placed in the draft law temporary active employment policy programmes to address the consequences of greed. We hope that the Government will also actually implement these programmes, stressing the training of persons for safe work in forests. Let us once again recall that the competent authorities need to ensure that forest owners, who will themselves address the consequences of the acorn, are properly informed and alerted to the way and procedures for the settlement of the damaged wood. Finally, I should like to add that despite all of this, firefighters, the military and civil protection have proven that the system of protection and rescue at key points is still working, as is the case with all systems, but there are still possibilities for improvement and completion.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u111	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Branko Ficko will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u112	Thank you. Good day to you all again! Today, it has been heard many times about an accident that is, by its scale and harm, few remember or even has anything to compare. The ice shell, which covered a good part of the country and, above all, of Notranj, was also reported by foreign media as a natural disaster that literally froze the country. This ice armor, which literally decimated the forests, the ice armor, which also claimed two lives, and the ice armor, which left more than 100,000 people without electricity supplied, and not least the ice armor that brought Slovenia and Slovenia together to try to eliminate one of the greatest natural disasters in the territory of Slovenia. Dearly beloved, we have heard all of this; more than that, we hear about it every day. President Alenka Bratušek and Defence Minister Mr Roman Jakič were also immediately after the incident on the ground. They met in the field daily with purely operational problems. Even then, the Prime Minister has repeatedly called on employers to understand, in particular with regard to the work of volunteer firefighters, to understand the underlying objective reasons for the retention of workers from work. In the field, however, the Defence Minister was familiar with problems; such as the lack of strong aggregates after lack of people. At the invitation of local communities, the army also came to the field and helped; it helped where its power was, of course, desired. The greatest task, of course, was done by firefighters. The National Assembly also regularly learned about the problems on the ground, all of us were aware that we were witnessing an accident; the disaster of great proportions, catastrophes, and if we were able to begin with enough wisdom and together trying to find solutions how to help people, not least, how to help the economy, today I find that everything is turning into political prestige: who would call a meeting earlier, who proposed a better intervention law, who knows more who did more and so on. Dearly beloved, I am sure that we are able to do more and better than we do by arguing to the Slovenian public. Of course, we now have an intervention law before us; a law that has been created as a result of the operation of an expert group selected from various areas of defence, agriculture, infrastructure and finance. What was the purpose and purpose of this group? To find out what is already missing in existing legislation, whether it is weak or inadequately regulated and, following an urgent procedure, it is necessary to amend or adopt to enable recovery to begin; the recovery, which must be rapid, is effective, which must prevent further damage. The working group thus found that the Slovenian legislation does not regulate the consequences of greed at all, so today we have a law that will help in addition to the Law on Forests already under consideration and the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, and in addition to the announced treatment of the Law on Public Procurement, also in the energy field; that is, a law that will help to effectively eliminate the natural disaster that has affected us in the form of an acorn. Of course, we are all aware that the legislative framework is not just a framework. The main work will have to be done and done. The work began when more than 48 thousand people were on the ground together, the most firefighters and 10,000 employees in power companies, and 3,000 soldiers and 2,000 other volunteers. Slovenia has proven once again that when necessary, we can step together and care about the suffering and suffering of others. So the work has started and we will continue to work, so the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will also support this law. Of course, this is also an opportunity to thank everyone for their unselfish help when it was most needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u113	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Daniel Krivec will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to the minister with the team! Less than a month ago, Slovenia faced one of the worst natural disasters in the last period. At the end of January and in early February, a state of emergency prevailed in Slovenia. A number of schools, kindergartens and other institutions in a large area of the country have been closed and those operating have been operating under tight conditions. The economy recorded a large output drop, the most affected were small and medium-sized enterprises, which, even after the installation of emergency electricity supplies in the days following the captures, were not able to attach themselves to overloaded electricity networks or to aggregates supplied by households. But agriculture also suffered a great deal. Many forests are completely destroyed, similar to many orchards and other agricultural land. According to estimates made, agricultural damage exceeds EUR 200 million. Over 500 thousand hectares of forests accounted for 40 percent of the area destroyed, and over 7 million cubic metres of wood would have to be removed from damaged forests, and the most pressing problem in affected areas was electricity supply. In individual days, over 140 thousand customers in different areas were powerless. There are still several hundred customers without electricity from the network, and more than three thousand are still in aggregates. According to the competent authorities, many who are now supplied with electricity from aggregates will depend on it for a few months. The consequences would be much worse if many individuals did not immediately activate themselves and even in this natural disaster, it turned out that in Slovenia there are the greatest wealth. This is why the greatest recognition and thanks goes to many volunteers, especially firefighters, electric workers, road, rail and utility companies, soldiers, civil protection personnel and others who have unselfishly jumped to help. The extraordinary efforts of all individuals who have acted, while some are still operating on the ground, cannot, of course, undo the damage they have caused. In order to ensure rapid and effective recovery of energy and transport infrastructures as soon as possible in order to prevent further damage in forests and to create normal conditions, it is necessary to adopt an amendment to the legislation enabling this. We have therefore put forward an initiative in the parliamentary group to take the necessary measures as soon as possible and have also attached to this request the proposal for an intervention law. We have expressed our expectation that the Government will assess the situation as realistically as possible, in particular in the area of electricity supply and rail infrastructure, and on this basis establish recovery priorities and identify specific figures within the framework of the intervention law that will help to remedy this damage. The proposal for an intervention law, which we have proposed to be adopted by the Government, is now before us to adopt it on an urgent basis. A few of our proposals are summarized by the government's proposal. We also adopted some improvements to the proposed material at yesterday's home committee meeting, and some of our key proposals have not been taken into account. We have not been able to supplement the law with a solution that would enable the municipalities worst affected to obtain funds for the necessary rehabilitation of local infrastructure. An amendment was rejected to ensure reimbursement of the costs of alternative electricity supply to the economy, agriculture and others through aggregates. An amendment has also been rejected to exempt the damage to property taxes on affected agricultural land, permanent plantations, orchards and forests, damaged or destroyed infrastructure facilities and economic operators for commercial purposes. The amendment to reduce cadastral income on damaged land was rejected. An amendment has also been rejected to resolve the status of an operative firefighter; that this needs to be regulated was full of the mouth of a high policy when visiting on the ground, of course at the time of capture, and that is forgotten by the catch. An amendment was rejected to reduce the value added tax for wood biomass. They also failed to take into account proposals that would shorten individual procedures and limit them on time. We have also proposed additional financial resources, in addition to insurance, other funds from the emerging financial perspective 2007-2013 and the new financial perspective 2014-2020. Although the proposed intervention law is a good basis for today's debate, it has one major drawback, and this is operationality. If the law does not change in the operative part about the timetable, it will not be good and will not help [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] which was our common goal, so we also proposed amendments. [[…]] We will support the law after the hearing in the National Assembly, but we will continue to monitor the implementation of the measures closely and will require the Government to report on the actual situation on the ground. In the event of problems with the implementation of the law, however, we will demand that the Government amend the intervention law immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk will present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In early February, Slovenia was hit by a natural disaster that our oldest citizens do not remember, and let us hope that it will never happen again in this dimension. The snow, which turned into freezing rain, stopped life in the country. The stomach is formed when it rains or dews at temperatures below the ice or when the precipitation falls on the sub-cooled floor where it freezes. The icy armor surrounds everything it touches. The gland affected almost the whole of Slovenia, most notranjska and northern Primorska. The damage to the electricity network left some 300,000 people without electricity, and the agglomerations caused the closure of many roads across the country and the Environment Agency declared a red alarm for the whole of Slovenia due to the weather. The desire causes the greatest damage on trees and electrical and telephone installations. For the weight of the desire is enough to break the branches and the trunks, and the iron pillars bend, and the wires break. About 40% of forest areas, damaged or damaged, were taught more than 7 million cubic metres of wood. The damage to infrastructure facilities is measured in millions of euros. Even today there are more households without electricity and they receive electricity from aggregates. Passenger transport between the Primorska and the interior of the country is still interrupted on the railway infrastructure, as the stomach destroyed the entire electrification of the track. The already poor and poorly maintained municipal and state roads are in worse and worse shape after this catch. Restoration will be long and costly, estimated at between €300 million and €500 million. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has responded quickly and effectively to the natural disaster and we are already considering such an intervention law on measures to remedy the consequences of the greed between 30 January and 10 February 2014. The law mainly regulates areas that are not regulated by system law and the purpose of the law is to restore economic infrastructure and forests as soon as possible and, of course, the most important to the population, to compensate the beneficiaries. The content of the law covers, in particular, the provision of resources in the State budget to remedy the effects of greed, the recovery of damage resulting from emergency intervention measures, the simplification of procedures in the area of spatial and construction measures allowing for faster restoration of facilities, the provision of certain adapted active employment policy programmes and the simplification of the rules relating to their implementation, the provision of specific arrangements for the determination of cadastral income, the promotion of administrative and other procedures for the implementation of measures, as it provides that all procedures for the resolution of the consequences of the hunger, both the administrative authorities and the State Audit Commission, should be governed by priority, the issue of energy accounting in situations where the supply of electricity has been disrupted, the implementation of emergency measures for the establishment of forest transport and forestry trains, and the implementation of emergency measures to prevent the proliferation and repression of pests in forests. The law solves all the problems described above, where the country and its inhabitants have been affected by this cold grip. Now is the time to deal with the consequences of the natural disaster, and Slovenia can come out of it stronger and more infrastructurely equipped than it was before. The means of recovery will be provided from the State budget, the European Solidarity Fund and the European Investment Bank and the Council of Europe Development Bank, and of course insurance companies will cover their share. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed law, as it is a good basis for a swift resolution of the consequences of greed. We hope that addressing the consequences of greed will also be rapid and effective at the implementation level and that natural disasters will give impetus to the Slovenian economy. This disaster can only be an accident, but it can also be an opportunity to turn the round of the crisis in the opposite direction, that is to say, into growth. On this occasion, I would like to thank all the competent services, organisations, societies and volunteers, especially our firefighters and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, for their self-sufficient work and self-sufficient assistance to the inhabitants in dealing with the consequences of this severe natural disaster. On March 1st, the International Day of Civil Protection, I am already congratulating all members of Civil Protection and all volunteers working in this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister, the rest are present! Unfortunately, there are more and more rare moments in this country when something unites us and does not divide us. In the last month, we have rarely had the opportunity to have two such events: the Olympic Games and the Ice Age. We would like to repeat the Olympics as soon as possible, and with regard to the ice catch, we will be most pleased if we never see it again. The greatest catastrophe of this kind in the famous Slovenian history has shown that there is still sacrifice among Slovenians, cooperation, perseverance and orientation towards the ultimate goal, and above all that genuine human solidarity; solidarity that does not originate in the constitution and laws, but is one of those basic human values that make a person human. Our system of protection against natural and other disasters is based on volunteering. Many accidents without volunteers could not be managed because we do not have enough professionals. In this catch, over 60,000 people, most firefighters and employees of electric companies, utilities and road companies and over 5,000 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and some of them are still carrying out their mission on the ground, as extraordinary floods in the Mountain Field require new interventions. In the initial interventions where volunteers, as well as professionals, have done their job well, for which we thank them once again in the Civil Gazette, it is time for us to do our work also to the politicians. The government hasn't held hands by now. First, she responded through the Slovenian Administration of Protection and Rescue, and within a few days of the arrest, a special government working group led by Minister Sam Omerzel was launched, with the result of, inter alia, intervention law. Unfortunately, the Government was not able to take into account the effects of the ice catch and floods that followed, as we added in the draft law yesterday to the committee, but also the difficult financial situation of the State or financial situation. In this intervention law, the government provided funds from the budget for the first urgent recovery of the 13m-euro budget reserve, which we increased by 2 million on the Committee yesterday. In addition, adequate resources will also be provided from the European Union Solidarity Fund. The proposal for an intervention law shall contain decisions setting out the priority treatment in the issue of consents, licences and other acts. The draft law further provides that, during the time of the failure of electricity supply, no accounting power shall be charged to the customer, while the appropriate mechanisms shall be established to calculate the recovery of damage to the economy, which has often solved its business in a self-initiative manner through the use of aggregates. In addition to regular work, the new Minister of Economic Affairs has already received the first specific task. Let him be aware of the well-known proverb: He that is quick to do so shall twice. For the purpose of restoring the economic infrastructure, the authorisation procedures shall be further simplified and eliminated and the possibility of simplifying the acquisition of usable licences. The provisions also allow for the use of different technical solutions, such as those used in damaged or destroyed infrastructure, which is certainly reasonable. Furthermore, the procedure for ensuring the transport of forest roads as effectively as possible and for the construction of forest trains necessary for the rehabilitation of the damaged forest shall be laid down, both with minimal intervention by the forest owner's ownership rights. The bill also covers the scope of public works, the necessary human resources support and the activation of unemployed persons to remedy the consequences of greed. The law also provides for a reduction in cadastral income due to destruction or damage to forests, as well as a reduction or write-off of contributions to farmers due to the damage caused by the ice catch. I have only listed some of the measures covered by the proposal for an intervention law. We will also discuss the individual in more detail below. The adoption of this law cannot and will not put us to sleep. The recovery will take several years, and adequate funding will also have to be provided. In the Civil Code, we will propose an intervention law on measures to remedy the consequences of greed, and we propose that all of us, together, both in the National Assembly and in the ministries that will now take over implementation, adopt both the Olympic spirit of contestants and contestants, as well as the spirit of solidarity and sacrifice of volunteers and professionals who have successfully activated themselves to remedy the consequences so that they do not drown in the bureaucratic cycle and infertile debates on individual paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u119	Thank you very much. This concludes the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and brings us to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. First of all, I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. I ask, would anyone like to discuss this article? We have a wish, I'll just open the door for you to sign up for the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two panellists reported. The first is Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, a nice greeting on my behalf and also on behalf of our Party of Positive Slovenia! Thus, we are united in the fact that the first consequences of this capture that has hit us have helped to alleviate citizens and citizens, helped to alleviate volunteer firefighters, members of civil protection, helped to alleviate the soldiers and all the 50,000 people who were on the ground at the time. That international assistance, i.e. assistance from neighbouring countries, has also been very welcome here, especially should be mentioned and thanked. All are deeply respected and deeply grateful for this help and for alleviating the first consequences of the ice catch. However, we must also say that the Government has not been at peace since then, but has very effectively intervened in the system of assistance and remedying the consequences and drafting the law, with which we will remedy all these consequences on a second date. The efficiency of the government has been demonstrated in the inter-departmental coordination between individual ministries and the Ministry of Defence should be mentioned here. The soldiers were on the ground almost the first day and I come from a region where the military or the Ministry of Defence was present when they established these most vital functions and links with the places that were cut off from the world, that the Ministry of Infrastructure was also present that the Ministry of Forestry was present. We can thus say that the Government has been on the ground from the very beginning by coordinating the operation of all these sector ministries. I think the government is thus closing down the area of criticism and play on the performance of this natural disaster. That seems very important to me. Today we will probably hear a number of criticisms, but the government has demonstrated by its action and effectiveness that it has been prepared for everything and that today, when we receive a bill of intervention on the table, it is in fact just a continuation of all this efficiency and works and, of course, a great deal of concern that the situation is settled as soon as possible and that the consequences are resolved as soon as possible. It is true, as already in the preceding paragraph, that the system law must change in the part that lust as an element of natural disaster and natural disaster is in fact the basis for us to adopt intervention law in the second and at this point. And it is right that this intervention law is as it is, although it is likely that we will not all agree that it is good. There are probably many more proposals, many amendments that have not been adopted and probably will not be accepted, but we are sure that, together with all ministries, in this situation, the Government has taken advantage of these or chosen the best solutions in terms of the best financial possibilities to effectively address and eliminate all the consequences of the capture. If I also say that the capture is something that has greatly affected our citizens and citizens, which has affected the country and will also be a financial burden to establish the normal functioning of the whole system. However, we must also take this case as an example where, in the future, we can or will improve our plans for protection and resolution, or other documents that will help us to take action even faster in future, in future, in future such threats or natural disasters. At least from this and in the way and expectation that the Government will continue to work so effectively and contribute with all its strength to the early regulation of the situation in all areas, it is at least that in doing so we will imagine, and perhaps indeed such things as our documents, such as our laws, not least the Law on Protection and Rescue, especially in the work concerning firefighters and volunteers, so that it will be better in the future. Next, I will not discuss the amendments I support, even the amendments tabled by the coalition, because I know that they constitute a whole in conformity and in accordance with all the financial options that the Government currently has at its disposal to allow the consequences to be addressed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Since I do not think there are any amendments to the coalition but one, do I have the wrong information? – I am pleased by this support from my colleague Zanoskar to the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Regardless of what we have invested, I think they are going in the right direction and they are going in the direction of what we talked about on the committee yesterday, which was not accepted in one part. We haven't repeated all the amendments. We have released those who are not most important to the substance of this law. However, we have invested those whom we believe to be urgently accepted today in order for the law to be better for everyone; above all, that it will be better for the government, the ministry, to make this operational performance better. Better for users, real infrastructure companies, which will be used in one part, and also better for those for whom we are actually adopting this law; it is said that those who have suffered the greatest damage and to whom only a fraction of this damage will be reimbursed in a loving way. Probably never gonna be able to undo all the damage. Of course, with no law and with no means can all the hundreds of thousands of voluntary hours that were put into labor in those first days be paid, so that the damage was lower than it would have been. Article 7 speaks of this law on the means to remedy the damage caused by ice catch and floods, which was further adopted yesterday by the Committee in Article 1, which is the result of this ice catch, of course. As a source, two are listed in this Article 7: the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union Solidarity Fund. It is normal that insurance funds will also be primarily activated, so of course the law does not have to be specifically written. We believe, however, that it would be right to write that it is necessary to activate funds from an existing and subsequent financial perspective, irrespective of whether it is in some way part of the budget. But if this is clearly and unequivocally recorded, there will also be a commitment to all those who will work in this area, a clearer and greater ambition to make some effort and to find those programmes that are not realistic in the current financial perspective and which would leave the non-implementation untapped resources and, of course, to put in place individual programmes where the elimination will be longer, even within the framework of the new financial perspective programme. For this reason, we propose to add an additional indent under Article 7 which also explicitly mentions the European financial perspective 2007-2013 and the European financial perspective 2014-2020. In the second paragraph, yesterday, the Committee corrected the amount given the extent of this damage that we have been listening to in the last days, which, together with the damage in the forests, is certainly over €400 million, it is essential to ensure that the extent of these first resources is adequate, because they are important; especially because most of what is then supposed to be recovered, most of this has already happened. At a time when urgent, rapid action was needed, of course, not even individuals, economists, farmers, municipalities, electricity distribution, transport companies were asking how, in what way, they were acting proactively in order to restore the normal situation as soon as possible. The biggest flaw in this ice catch was the failure of the electricity network and therefore everyone in this area acted with the aim of providing alternative sources as soon as possible. Here we probably all agree that, given that over a thousand major aggregates have been activated throughout the country, only this international mechanism has not been sufficient to find other, fully commercial routes in this area, and, of course, this amount is high. However, it was removal, and the consequences were significantly lower, including related to economic activity, which could have continued relatively quickly as a result of this rapid action. Thus, due to this rapid activity, the damage was lower than it would have been, therefore, we believe it is right that the reserve budget for this first measure does not provide EUR 13 or 15 million, as it was adopted yesterday on the Committee, but EUR 20 million, and that 5 million of this amount is provided to municipalities for the first elimination of the effects of greed on local public infrastructure and forest roads. Thus, we propose to add paragraph 2 to this Article, which reads as follows: In the 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, EUR 20 million is provided for the first urgent removal of the consequences of the surplus from the budget reserve, of which EUR 5 million to the municipalities for the first removal of the consequences of hunger on local public infrastructure and forest roads. Why is that important? It is important because you know that all this sanitation is immediately running, most of it has already been dreamed up, a large part of what needs to be done to ensure that the sanitary drain, which needs to be done in the first step by May 15, depends on these forest routes, which the congregations are already concerned about. These activities run, will be concluded in the majority of municipalities within two weeks and it is also right to provide a financial resource for these activities, as none of these municipalities have these funds and the budget reserves in the municipalities are, of course, relatively small and do not allow for the very large activation of funds as necessary in this case. Much of this can be done with redistribution, but not entirely. Therefore, in Article 7 of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that this Article 7 should be supplemented by a clear definition that the funds of the existing and subsequent financial perspective and the EUR 20 million of which EUR 5 million should be allocated to the rehabilitation of local public infrastructure will also be activated for the purpose of this recovery.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss Article 7? I'm opening the door to debate because I can see there are more of you. If you'll excuse me, please. We have two more debaters, or debaters and debaters, reported. Mr. Dragan Bosic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u124	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to the Members of Parliament, to the Government and Members of the people! I've probably done something wrong before because I was sure I was being reported, but it doesn't matter. With regard to this amendment, I would like to attach one, perhaps a slightly different topic, or think about the event and the prevention of these events in the future. By the way, what's this all about? We're talking about a natural disaster, we've adopted that in the second law, or the third point was this. But I would like to add that this is a natural disaster caused by climate change — what am I talking about? Remember the flood, that's where we talked about natural disasters. In principle, it was just that it rained, and then we found that someone had kept some prisoners locked up and then flooded a beautiful part of Slovenia. In fact, on 2 December 2013, the Warsaw Protocol was implemented, it was likely that representatives were there to replace the failed Kyoto Protocol and would first lead to the Paris Protocol. I am speaking, clearly, of protocols relating to climate change. Some people never sign this protocol and then heat their lives up to smaller ones, to those who sign, ratify and are good and want to keep, I don't know, the world, some balance and so on. Indeed, these changes that are taking place – clearly you do not remember, but the historical memory says, remember the last freezing, one hundred thirty million years ago, the freezing ten thousand years ago ended, people survived. It was kind of hard, I guess. We'll get through this, too, but I'd like to keep thinking. Thus, I do not understand why we do not call on those who cause these climate changes in this regard, because this is a fact. If there is no fact, then I don't know why we have a European Commissioner for Climate Change, why we have departments talking about it. I'm talking about five greenhouse gases, where, of course, we hold matters, we welcome Mr Al Gore, Vice-President of the United States, who tells us about the unpleasant truth, very uncomfortable, signed Kyoto 2007, won the Nobel Prize and did not ratify it. I don't know, can you imagine a prenup without a wedding? I mean, it's a disaster! The thing is getting worse, it's saying, what just happened is an event that will happen again. But we're going to adopt laws, and then we're going to repair the damage that's caused, and I'm going to use the background expression, and they're going to keep doing that. You know, remember the show coupons. Great stuff! If you're poor, you can't pig, but you have coupons. What can you do? You can sell him who's rich and a pig. In Europe, there is a continuing desire to establish a compensation fund for such disasters, which they have rejected. Unbelievable! But they're offering to help everyone who's hurt. So we can now get help in terms of someone coming to talk to us about green energy, about new technologies, about dealing with the consequences of environmental disaster, selling us knowledge, great! [[…]] He caused a problem — he sells us knowledge! I don't know what's going on with you, but I look at me, I don't mean to pay the price for the economic development of China and India. [[…]] I don't think so, I don't care! Or states of prosperity in the United States! But I'm having trouble because of them! With these laws – I will clearly support them – we are trying to save our people and our country, forests from the aggressive policy of these so-called "great" as nothing can be changed. But I think you can. One more thing I would point out; Warsaw was sponsored by powerful Polish coal mines, for example. Then from British Petroleum to Shell – all in order. So these were the partners of the Warsaw Protocol, which talks about climate change. But if this is not part of climate change and then it is the result of some natural success, then I cannot confirm this natural disaster on my own. These successes have been, as we can say, this was now the fourth freezing, if we donavically count it, was the fifth. Now we are in an ice age – which follows, but follows. But in some ways we can influence this and not follow passively a policy that is imposed on us and that is why we have problems. At least I personally cannot tolerate it or support it or cheat. And then from year to year: floods, glands, reptiles. On the second occasion of the conference, Hajan rallied the Philippines. And we understand what the Philippines' share of the global mission is. They're nowhere to be found. Then he literally won't be here. We are also witnessing a so-called climate fugitive, a person from Kiribati has come to New Zealand to beg if they accept him because he will lose his island. With its cod and harpoon, it has a clear, global impact on change and on rising ocean levels! Like us, we stick to all the rules – and it is right that we do, because I am not saying that we should not. But it's also right to call on those who don't. At least I would have them or some official policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u126	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Although this debate has now been very interesting, it would be good to go back to Article 7 and to the amendments of the SDS Group and to see whether these amendments are worth supporting or if there are any substantive problems involved. At first glance, these amendments are actually very popular. First of all, because they are talking about providing additional funding from the European budget, which we have been discussing for several days in this Parliament, there is a possibility that we will not be able to spend it from the current perspective for projects that have already been envisaged. Here it would be attentive; that is, for the existing financial perspective, certain operational plans have been adopted, which have been coordinated with the European Commission, and it has been specified exactly what that money is spent on. The municipalities, or those that have committed themselves to the use of funds from the existing financial perspective, will also have to be forced and helped to use the funds in accordance with the decisions they have. So he doesn't think it's right in the law to write something like that that's a pigeon on the roof. But it is good to write about things that are sparrow in hand, sometimes said our old people or common sense. That is why I think it is right that the Government has listed only those two sources as sources of funding, which in fact, both in our budget and in the European budget, are indeed designed to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. In the State budget it is in reserve, there must always be some funds in reserve to remedy natural disasters, and this also applies to municipal budgets. Therefore, today we cannot defend any congregation if it does not have these resources, for this only means that it has poorly planned its resources. Each congregation and country is also obliged to have resources in their budgets to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The government certainly knew this and therefore proposed 13 million for this intervention law. Secondly, the Government also knew and consulted the European Solidarity Fund, which is also primarily intended to address natural disasters in the various Member States of the European Union. So it's two dedicated sources. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to remain in the case of Article 7, paragraph 1, of those two statements which are reliable and from which money can safely be obtained. Secondly, the SDS proposes that, instead of the 15 million that were provided yesterday or for which a joint opinion existed on the relevant committee yesterday, 20 million be allocated to address these consequences. I would like to point out how that 15 million came to be, because the government has proposed 13 million. Then, given that the scope of the consequences of the accident has widened, this will not only be a specific sting directly in the municipalities or in the premises directly affected by the acorn, but that this intervention law will also apply to those areas which will be pursued by floods due to greed at this time. This is said, above all, here was the thought of a mountain field becoming a mountain sea and similar problems. As a result, the Committee raised the funds to 15 million due to the expansion of the area of the accident. Now, raising from 15 million to 20 million does not seem justified in the sense that from those 15 million existing, we will give another 5 million to the congregations. The State will make a total of 15 million sure after the intervention law to remedy the consequences of this disaster, and it is likely that it will spend some additional resources from reserves larger than the estimated 15 million in the future, if it sees this to be necessary, to remedy the consequences of the natural disaster, but this should be based on an assessment of the damage and it is not possible to conclude now that the municipalities have had 5 million damage and therefore they must be provided with 5 million already in advance. Maybe they had less of this damage, maybe more. It seems to me that the number of 5 million for municipal roads, local roads and forest roads is very high compared to all the 15 million applicants, the 15 million already envisaged under this intervention law. Therefore, I propose, and my personal opinion is that, despite the fact that both corrections are very attractive, they are essentially inoperable, useless and therefore should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Dr. Jelusich. Anybody else want to discuss this on Article 7? Here you go. I'll give you a chance to report to the debate. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment either, and I will support the law because I am sure that this 20 million will not be enough. But the government will then be able to provide as much money as it will have at the information-gathering stage and, of course, the restructuring or review of financial resources. At the moment, as colleague Jelusič said, 15 million is available, and so many can be made available. But I'm going to say something that moved me in the debate of my colleague, how vehemently we listened to him, but we didn't believe what he was saying. Look, he touched exactly what led to this disaster or the next disasters that will happen. We deal with the consequences, but not the causes. It is really unreasonable how the world sees this self-destruction, how it not only looks at it, but how it participates. However, since I am aware of this, it will not be possible simply to change people's minds with the left hand, to change this greed for capital, and, of course, to destroy the environment that surrounds us, there is something we can do today. What can we do? First, of course, a great gift to all who so and immediately jumped to help gave their time, their energy, even their means, to all firefighters, civil protection. Last but not least, we forgot about the mayors and municipal administrations who immediately approached to solve what had happened. I am sure that this has not ended, that all these activities will continue, but I would still like to say that the Slovenian Army has done what it can do and what the law also prescribes. However, it is necessary to check ahead, plans for education, training and education, optimal usefulness for all cases of natural and other accidents. In particular, give emphasis to the usefulness of cross-cutting cooperation and coordination, check the system of action, activation, management with a clear hierarchy of command – who is superior and who is subordinate to whom. This is sometimes, in the previous system, when we knew nothing should surprise us – this training was somehow established in people, at local level it worked well. They knew exactly who had to do something, and I must say, at the local level, it turned out very well in most cases. The mayors responded immediately, called headquarters and so on. This hierarchy and this command, or these organizational matters, have gone well. The status of all volunteer firefighters, all kinds of volunteer rescuers, pits, rescue services, mountain rescuers and so on must be systematically regulated and resolved. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces should be trained to deal with natural and elementary disasters. It is now necessary to focus on regular maintenance, the provision of basic funds for such cases – this is what we say both in firefighting companies and in volunteer firefighters. Where the local communities had good hearing about the equipment of these fire companies, civil protection and so on, they could also intervene appropriately and promptly and well. Where it's not, it just happened, and the consequences could be even worse if it wasn't for individual people, the military and so on. It is necessary to consider how to involve the Slovenian Army in the activities of the protection and rescue system in order to strengthen the mutual trust of civil and military work. At the same time, I also had the thought that it would be good to consider the introduction of compulsory recruitment. At this time, we have many young people who are not adequately qualified to offer first aid, many young people who cannot afford to pay a driver's license for a motor vehicle, boat drivers and so on. In this six-month training, this would be a suitable cadre, which could not only be when a natural disaster occurs, but always in the event of such and other accidents, jump to help, cooperate and act in the context of self-protection and, of course, contribute a large share to this good or even better system of self-protection and assistance. So, that's it in this direction. I am sure that the Government, which has reacted so quickly, will also find part of what I have said so that this system can be improved. This impression has proved once again that when a crisis occurs, Slovenians agree that we are not separated from the left or to the right. Firefighters have shown this, so firefighters are so good, so they're so successful. In firefighting societies and units, they have never wondered who is a religion or perhaps a political affiliation. It doesn't matter to them, they're just willing to help, and when they go, they all go together harmoniously; and that's right. I am sure that here too, now this will is positive, good and I also thank the opposition, who is ready and willing to participate and has shown a great deal of willingness to make it happen. So once again, I will support the marriage and support the amendment of the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. I'll back this amendment myself. Both, and this part, which speaks of the increase in the budget in the reserve fund, and I believe that there is no need to provide additional funds for the municipalities, because in law, if our later amendment is not adopted, they have no coverage. However, I cannot agree with a colleague who said before me that they must activate their reserve fund. Of course, it has been activated, but this is a stage of intervention, and we are talking with intervention law about recovery and remedying the consequences, which is why we are also adopting this law. Because everything you've talked about is already covered in the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters and this includes this system law, and we are talking about a special law, as it was shocking, such as the Beaches Act of a large scale and so on. And I cannot agree with you that there is no need to write down other resources that can be taken into account so that these consequences can in some way be eliminated more quickly and that additional resources can also be provided from other sources. And I'm going to put it specifically, and even in the earthquake law, the developmental part was defined by concrete numbers, and these numbers are dead letters on paper. Thus, even if the numbers are written in such a law, this does not mean that they will be realized. And if we look at the analogy the other way around; it is important to write down some possible source that can be incorporated through some process by the official office later, otherwise it is just an excuse not to be able to do so. Here is our initiative that all possible resources available to the Ministry in the future, because we are all talking about how long-term recovery will be, can be used for these purposes. However, I assure you, and you yourself know from the practice that if this law is not written down, even if the possibility of using a resource we are talking about, the financial perspective 2007-2014 remains and so on will be the interpretation of officials that this is not in the law – this cannot be done. This practice has so far shown, in the opposite direction, even if the law says 100 million — you said earlier that more than 100 million would be needed to repair the damage. We now have, according to all the information provided by the 15 million, this was settled yesterday with the amendment, and the talk is about 20 million, somehow promised from the Solidarity Fund. So we're at 35, you're talking about 100 million. So, by any chance, these resources aren't enough to be rehabilitated. It is therefore important that we write down and extend with the amendment the possibility that the Ministry has, or anyone will deal with the rehabilitation and elimination of the consequences of seeking resources in another area. And again, I warn you: I believe that we can assess this as not a problem, because the country already knows where to find it, but if it is not written down, it will be an excuse for officials not to be able to do so. We both know this practice: you were a minister, but I was a long-standing mayor and a civil protection commander, and I know how such a thing is interpreted later. In the opposite direction there is no problem at all; in the marriage there can be 100 million written down, if someone says that we will not get them, we will not get them for some purpose; otherwise, if it is not written down, someone will want something — no matter what! However, I suggest that you consider this hypothetical option that we are proposing, but only in good faith, in order to seek further opportunities to finance the removal of these consequences and nothing more, we are not talking about specific numbers here. Regarding 20 million for the purposes of this first removal and also that one part is intended for the municipalities, I think that is correct. The municipalities have also suffered great damage; they are equally, in the same system of the country, supplied by taxpayers, this is the same source, and these roads, which are of a local nature, will have to be trained because otherwise no removal from forests will be possible; and this will have to be done in advance to enable these roads to be trained. It should be noted that these affected areas have a lot of local roads, more than state roads, we need to look at reports and statistics, and in this case I think this is a correctional proposal on our part. With regard to height, however, without asking the Ministry of Finance yesterday, we have increased from 13 million to 15 million and it is likely that there will be a need for some rebalancing or internal redeployment, and even if we now raise by 5 million, I do not think that this is such a large amount compared to all the other commitments and financial leaps that are being made within individual ministries. It is only a matter of goodwill and understanding of the problem. As for the discussion, my colleague Kavtičnik. I just hope that we will not get involved in a system of protection and rescue that has long worked only well in this country. On some lazily basis, to discuss some better solutions, I would really like to ask that we do as little of this as possible, because the matter also works now, not only in the previous system. Otherwise, both of the creators of this story, unfortunately deceased, was Mr Ušeničnik, who started the story and, I think, Miran Bogotaj, who continued it and the system works. On all levels! Don't touch that, please! In this regard, I would suggest, however, that you consider from the experience we have so far, how these laws work in practice and how individual things are later read, that we still extend this set, which is mentioned by the law, also with these options offered by European funds from one perspective and another.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk only, please Mr. Bevk, Mr. Kavticnik wishes to replicate. [[…]] Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I got what I read from a longtime C.O.O., head of civil protection, territorial defense, and so on. This was his proposal, which for many years has been a successful commander of the entire territory of the Savinja-Shales region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Article 7 and this amendment is also, of course, linked to Article 1, because we on the Committee yesterday amended Article 7 and increased the budget line from the budget reserve from thirteen to fifteen million after consulting the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, and this number has not been written in mind. For yesterday we joined the committee, both the coalition and the opposition, in support of the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and in extending the contents to floods caused by thirst. Thus, on a proposal from the Committee, we have increased the projected budgetary resources from the state budget from thirteen million to fifteen million. In addition, the government has already stated here that it will also use the European Union Solidarity Fund funds for rehabilitation. It is interesting to see online data on major floods in Germany, Austria and the Czech Republic in 2002, according to 12 years ago, when Europe had no mechanisms to help its members or candidates, as was the case at the time of the Czech Republic. However, for example, the Czech Republic was hit by such severe floods that it was necessary to evacuate forty thousand people from Prague, the capital. And at the time, they thought about how to help this central part of Europe by redistributing cohesion funds and agricultural policy, but all of this should have been, or was, by means of a decision or decision and in agreement with the European Commission, not in mind. If I were to be given the law now that we would finance a natural disaster from the European Union funds would prejudge the decision because cohesion policy funds cannot be applied in accordance with European legislation for the recovery of natural disasters. Therefore, on the basis of the poor experience of these floods in Central Europe, the European Union Solidarity Fund for the Reduction of Natural Disasters was set up by the European Union. And that's the real source. However, it is not said that we could not use the resources of cohesion policy. In what case? If we decide and report that we want to modernise the electricity grid and that instead of, say, the pipelines in the next financial perspective, we will build cables that will be dug into the ground and thus less exposed to these natural disasters, in a particular case of hunger. Furthermore, this Article 7 also states in the fourth paragraph that, in preparing the draft budgets for the following years, the competent ministries should, within their financial budgets, ensure sufficient spending rights to remedy the damage governed by this law. It is said that in the coming years, ministries will have to provide significantly more money in their budgets than is envisaged under this law to remedy the consequences of this natural disaster. It is estimated that the damage was between €300 million and €500 million. It is said that neither the state budget nor the European Union Solidarity Fund will assist in the recovery. But here we will have to use the European Investment Bank's favourable funds, I hope that the country will negotiate to receive favourable loans with a moratorium of 20 years or more, and also the EIB's assets, not to mention what we have already heard today, that, in view of the insurance policies, they must also do their part and pay damages to insurance companies, to all those who have their property and property secured. So I think that, at this point in time, we have done everything that needs to be done in this intervention phase, but there is still a lot of work to be done in the preparation of state budgets for the coming years and in the application of projects to draw funds from the European Union Cohesion Funds for the next financial perspective 2014-2020. However, I think that if some of the projects from this financial perspective, which has ended in 2013, can be implemented in the next two years, if certain projects are not implemented and it is far from visible that it will not be possible to draw on resources, that our Government will agree with the European Commission and that it will be able to spend some of these unused European funds on some other projects that will be able to remedy the damage caused by the consequences of this natural disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. I would like to tell you once again that we are under Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendment? They still want to discuss it. There's something I'd like to ask you to sign up for the debate. [[...]] Four reported for discussion. The first one is Mrs. Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Happy country with firefighters like that. With this I do not intend to underestimate the 10,000 employees of the electricity industry, the 3,000 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the 2,000 volunteers who participated in the relief of the consequences of the natural disaster, which can be called a disaster. Oh, yeah. There were over 33,000 firefighters at work, voluntary and professional. Among them were the autumn firefighters who dealt with the consequences of the capture in the Loška Valley in the group of mountain firefighters. They immediately, unselfishly, and persistently helped people to save lives and possessions. Moreover, they are doing this now, as Slovenia is plagued by a flood of rivers. Yesterday's Infrastructure Committee has tabled amendments to the opposition Group's 31b Article, which I may even agree with. However, I cannot agree that such things would be regulated in this law in some way. I support the efforts of firefighters to deal with others, their other problems. It is only now that we have seen how urgently we need them. That's why they deserve a system law and not a solution at the expense of patching holes. They also need changes in occupational insurance, health insurance and legislation concerning employers of voluntary firefighters. I do not imagine that a 60-year-old firefighter must climb to the 10th or 20th floor, be 100% conditionedly prepared, just as a 30-year-old, and save lives, remove dangerous substances or mediate in traffic accidents. However, I tell employers to act more socially responsible, employees of voluntary firefighters are also doing jobs for which they should order outside subcontractors, which is what firefighters save money for them, cleaning ice for them, and snow from roofs and other dangerous surfaces for them. In addition, all firefighters also have rescue exams, which is first aid, which must be paid or provided by the employer. By the way, Austrian firefighters came to the aid of a neighbouring country with all the equipment, with aggregates, even during their vacation. In the event of a disaster, some employers, not all, pressed the voluntary firefighters into a corner so that they could not do their human work. Of all the above: I do not support solutions under both amendments, but it is appropriate for firefighters to get their own system law, where more areas to be resolved will be identified. Therefore, to all the firefighters, including the fall and the mountains, all praise for their unselfish help. Heart firefighters also rescued Slovenia with aggregates.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pavlich. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Nevertheless, I would like to go back to Article 7 and discuss whether to write down additional resources in this Article 7 or to stay with those whom we know for sure that they are intended to address the consequences of natural disasters. I fully agree with my colleague Sam Bevk's discussion, what I would only add to his discussion, is a warning I have given to the position of our parliamentary group in the previous law that we have dealt with, namely that we are now dealing here with laws that have a short-term effect. What we obviously need and what escapes us at this time is one holistic approach, one vision of all other laws, all the other measures that will have to be taken in order to eliminate all the very large and extensive consequences of this natural disaster since the beginning of this month in Slovenia. That is why we feel this need to write down or conclude somewhere exactly what Bevk said, that if we are already in the financial perspective of 2014-2020 to repair the electricity distribution system, what is expected, then we will make an upgrade, so that we will avoid such major consequences in the future by natural disasters. But we have to make this somewhere else, this in these fifteen or twenty million intervention laws, which is a short-term measure of short-term nature, we probably won't be able to squeeze out. However, this will have to be given somewhere else and written somewhere else, if not elsewhere in the validation of the EU's operational spending programmes from the 2014-2020 financial perspective. The second thing I would like to point out; it was said that the system of protection and rescue works well to function at all levels, said Comrade Krivec. I agree with that, but I would warn you that I should not be so confident that this system does not have any built-in errors. It is good and works significantly better than other support systems in this country. However, Mr Bojan Ušeničnik, who studied for many years, what model of the system of protection against natural and other disasters should be introduced in Slovenia, followed the Swiss model. That is why we have a responsibility to protect against natural and other disasters transferred to the municipalities, while the State is concerned about the management and management of this system through the state civil protection headquarters and the regional civil protection headquarters. But the symmetry is incomplete. The martyr failed what we need and what Switzerland has; and this is a regional level. We don't have regions. What Switzerland has, cantons and cantons usually cover the absence of a congregation that is unable to react properly in the event of a major natural disaster. We cantons alias regions do not have; not in this sense. What is a key management problem with us is the relationship between municipalities, municipal civil protection headquarters and the regional civil protection headquarters. While the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters provides that the municipal civil protection staff should report to the regional community, in the cases of certain municipalities with which we have dealt in the past, it appears that this relationship has not worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u140	Yes, thank you. Once again, I am calling because some of the debates are still on the table, but they follow some natural disasters in other countries. However, I would just like to warn fellow Members to follow a few examples in our country, and we would soon find out when to compare individual documents that most of the things they say are not at all true. What I said earlier: we can have 100 million written down in our marriage, and there will not even be 5 million dedicated to a natural disaster if someone so decides. In that case, we will not be able to resolve anything. On the contrary, if something is not written in the law, no one will use it to cover one thing. That's all I'm reminding you of, and that's the fact that it's been proved so far. Therefore, once again, I propose that you support this amendment, which opens up an opportunity for someone to use certain funds that will show up at least from this existing financial perspective, where there is a possibility that there will be residues, and if this is not recorded in the law, no one will want to process it. These are the facts. Just look at existing actions in case of natural disasters. And I agree with my colleague Yelušič that in certain cases things may not have worked, but not because of the poor system or because the system is inappropriate. The system in Slovenia operates at levels, first the municipal headquarters, regional and national. We must not always agree to this fact that if something does not work at some point, the system is weak or the law is wrong. That's all I'm saying. It is only necessary to remove the anomaly due to a specific case, but not to break the whole system, which works perfectly in this case. However, I appeal to you to consider and to look at some domestic practices as they take place in such cases, not to follow some examples from foreign countries where European funds are drawn in a completely different way than we are. They already have different approaches across the border and can be much easier to deal with. It would therefore be important that at least the possibility in this article is left to other resources to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u141	Mr. Bevk, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u142	Yes, thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The fact that we are following the example, so at least I understood, according to the experience of other countries, is groundless for a simple reason because the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is talking about the absorption of European cohesion policy funds and it has to be demonstrated in the case of other countries how this has been resolved. However, we know that in order to remedy the natural disasters that have already affected us in Slovenia, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment would now need €60 million for the recovery of the flood years ago, for the beaches that threaten to repair the earthquake in Posoča, so that we do not only have these current problems, but we have problems that are still waiting for us, and it will not be easy to solve all of this together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would like to speak on behalf of DeSUS about Article 7 or the amendment to Article 7. First, I would say that the opposition has the right, of course, a legitimate right to propose amendments. However, we will not be able to support this amendment to the DeSUS. I would also like to refer to the interpretation in Mr Bevk's first debate and now in the replica, when he explained how the country intends to use European funds, the means of European cohesion. I would like to say that, yesterday, on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, we discussed quite a lot about these funds which the Government has provided in law for these currently available resources for the elimination of greed and other damage at this time, and that, on the basis of the provision of both ministries, both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, we have increased these funds from 13 million to 15 million euros. I would also point out that the basic text of Article 7 speaks of the Government determining, on the basis of the report referred to in Article 4, paragraph 2, the scope, manner and dynamics of the provision of additional resources to remedy the effects of greed in 2014. And at the fourth paragraph, which says, "When preparing the budget proposals for the following years, the competent ministries must" – they must! – "to ensure, within the framework of its financial plans, sufficient spending rights to remedy the damage governed by this law." The government has also written down that it will use the European Union's solidarity funds or the means of European cohesion. I think that we need to believe in these assurances and that unfortunately, at least in DeSUS, we will not be able to support this proposed SDS amendment. We will support the law and the amendment of the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Krivec would like to discuss this article further.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u146	I'll be brief. I was encouraged by the discussion, or replica, of Comrade Bevek. He well said why they do not use European funds in leadership. We could ask them, and we could tell you. I've been asking around. It is precisely because I would be present in the three biggest natural disasters that have occurred in Slovenia so far before this greed, if it is declared to be greater, two earthquakes and several reptiles. And I know what I'm talking about! And I know how it works in practice! The Ministry of the Environment’s response, even then, why they do not use European funds to eliminate floods and certain water problems, was because it is not written in law. That's my experience. That's why I'm talking about writing this down. You can see for yourself. You don't have to believe it, but we are Members to think for ourselves, and we don't sometimes believe what officials bring to our table. At times, we need to take another step, so we are independent of decision - making. It would be wise to consider at least this first part of the amendment, which allows at least some other source to be brought into this story, if you do not want to help local communities that have also had major problems in the event of this accident. Experiences are just talking about it, and you don't have to look very far, just look at the documents, and what kind of ministry are you asking for their opinion? Indeed, I speak from concrete experience both at interventions and through rehabilitations and cooperation with individual departments and how documents are written. However, I do not think that legislation has changed significantly at this time, so I suggest you support at least this first part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, would you like to discuss it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. It has been said here, from an important point of view, that the assessment of the damage after the accident is approximately EUR 300 to 500 million. This law brings 15 million, if the amendment is adopted, will be 20 million, and I only ask those responsible for this government table how many intervention laws will have to be adopted in order to cover at least some appropriate level the consequences of this natural disaster. How many times are we gonna have to repeat this intervention law? I'm also asking about you in the coalition. I think we're aware of what we're talking about. Mrs Jelusic said that a number of measures would have to be taken – who would pay them? This law doesn't cover it, it's too weak, it doesn't have a financial basis. No, it's not. Insurance will cover one part, the other resources are available and in this part, when we propose an amendment to the financial package of measures or to expand financial resources – I think it is fully justified. We must enter into the law all possible resources to which the Republic of Slovenia may apply or be used by the Republic of Slovenia if they are available for these purposes. Or you'll do what you're used to, raise taxes and then cover something. I don't think it's about the SDS proposing something that's useless or impossible to do. I think we are proposing something that needs to be accepted and done. In view of how you comment on these proposals, and only in the form of a lesson, you have been in this short time, fellow members of the coalition, played by the government and government officials on several occasions. Let me just mention the Forest Act, or the Real Estate Tax Act. Play it a few times; and it's strong! They used to take you like little kids from kindergarten across the water. That's why things are the way they are. There too we have proposed a series of good measures, the Minister can laugh, but it would be better if he prepared something more concrete and useful than what is here, and now you are dealing with this problem of how to resolve this error. Here it will be similar, it is the law because of the law, without sufficient and tangible measures, and above all without financial grounds. If there is no money in the budget, if the money does not bring the intervention law, there is no money and it cannot be used. I'm sorry! The budget shall be used and drawn only on the basis of the laws and resources provided for in the laws. That's not possible. That's what the minister's going to say. And we're going to give another 30 million, just like the allowance, for those I love or like. This must be defined in the law. And there's one more thing I'd like to remind you of. On 23 July last year, there were seven ministers present in government premises and the other half were represented by state secretaries. The effect of that conversation and action, 44 or 45, which you adopted at that time — July 23rd last year — is greater than this intervention law. Do the math! At a meeting of one beautiful day in the summer, Ljubljana Municipality received more than this great story with the President of the Government here this morning to remedy the consequences of the natural disaster. And there's something else I'd like to suggest. I suggest that you invite the mayors of the affected municipalities to a government interview, to a similar meeting with the mayor of Ljubljana, and that you also prepare measures to remedy the consequences of the natural disaster in the affected municipalities. You do that, that would be a measure! Because mayors are also those who must also provide public needs, but at local level. And since you're denying them money in the intervention law, you're not gonna let them do that. This is a problem and I don't understand why you don't do this thing as projectively as you do with the Ljubljana Municipality. This is about the people affected, the bad accident, the great consequences, the severe suffering that will be lasting and the government has not been able to organize and the affected municipalities, the mayors of the affected municipalities, to call for an interview to jointly prepare intervention measures to remedy the consequences in those congregations. I'm assessing this as a major flaw. I hope that this debate, which is now before us, will result in some kind of agreement and, if this law is to be adopted today, a reform of this law, because the law must bring people what they need, not what they like about the officialism. Marriage has to solve problems, not that someone with a label works and solves problems that can only be three times more expensive than the actual cost of recovery. Above all, I think it is wise that this distribution of activities is made to the congregation, that the country is as small as possible; the most expensive is the rehabilitation when too many countries are involved in eliminating such consequences. The municipalities do this a lot cheaper and it would have to be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Does anyone else want to discuss the contents of Article 7? I'll open up an opportunity to report to the debate. Just a minute. Here you go. Check-in is ongoing, three reported. First up, Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I'll be brief. I would recommend to my colleague Tank that he read Article 7 in its entirety, but not just paragraph 2. The second paragraph speaks of the fact that EUR 15 million will be provided in the 2014 budget and together with you, with the opposition on the Committee yesterday, we raised this item from 13 to 15 on the basis of the amendment to Article 1 proposed by you. Therefore, the third and fourth paragraphs of this Article should be read. The third paragraph refers to the need to provide additional resources on the basis of the final assessment report, which is discussed in the second paragraph of Article 4. After the known total damage has somehow been estimated between EUR 300 and EUR 500 million, additional resources will need to be provided under Article 7, paragraph 3, on the provision of funds. In addition, colleague Tanko, the fourth paragraph should be read, saying that ministries must, within their budgets in the coming years, ensure sufficient spending rights to remedy the damage. European funds can also be implied here, as ministries need to provide their share of European money. So this amendment of yours is actually consumed in Article 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u152	Actually, I don't know if we're talking about Article 7 or we're just talking about it. Therefore, if we read Article 1, the content of the law and, of course, Article 3, these articles specify what will be done and how this law will ensure the elimination of the consequences of greed. 7. Of course, Article 7 speaks of the provision of funds and what Mr Bevk said is, of course, very clearly defined that this must be covered in other budgets and in other means. But I wanted to talk about it, actually. Today, in the Municipality of Velenje, they have made a public announcement informing all citizens and citizens that they should report the consequences of the damage to the acorn up to 10. Three, ten. 3. However, they will be placed on the territory of the Commission, which will assess the damage caused by the acorn. From there, all the consequences will be clear. I can see that the consequences of the acorn can be multilayered and, of course, clear. So on the infrastructure, on the roads, on the economy, on the forests, on the fields, everywhere, but of course also in the municipalities. When I asked the committee whether the damage had already been assessed in the municipalities, I received an answer that the damage was not assessed, that it was assessed on the infrastructure and that the damage was known. Of course, we could also say that we certainly did not get 10% or 5% of the damage in our congregation, no damage when we repaired the beaches, and that there was a flood this year that was of exceptional magnitude, which had to be repaired and had to be repaired by the city's own budget. From this point of view, it seems to me that what is written here today is, therefore, that it is pleasing to hear that yesterday, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., we have talked about this subject and raised this particular segment, if I say so, by 2 million and today we are pulling and stretching, if I say so, the budget or this cost for the next 5 million. Of course, I think that when it is shown what the damage is, what the assessment is, then it is very serious to say and to replace the part of the damage that this has caused to the municipalities. As for Mr. Tanko, the fact that you were taken as children, you know, this assessment – keep it to yourself! [[…]] That doesn't apply, like, at least not to me. I raised my hand very consciously for this or pressed the button to adopt both laws and forests and, of course, a property tax. How else would we solve this situation, how would we solve it? So those of us who have more should pay something? So please don't use this. If you are leading your colleagues as children, we will certainly decide for ourselves and admit if we have made a mistake. I am not ashamed to admit that a mistake has been made here, but that we will also correct it because some things have gone really far beyond what was planned. So it seems to me that this 7th article is actually a performance like yesterday from 8am to 8 p.m. I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak. You want a replica? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u154	What has now been said, respected Meh, is also a performance. At the Committee and in the National Assembly, we speak publicly and publicly. That's you, me, whoever comes in. Now, there's one thing that's forgotten. Yesterday, we had an amendment on the committee that talked about providing these intervention funds for the municipalities and was rejected; and we had an amendment that we had compiled across the State Council, which talked about providing additional funds for the municipalities, especially in the part that they were doing damage to forest roads, which was talking about 2 million of these funds. As these amendments have been rejected, the amendment under Article 7 has now been proposed here to ensure that these funds are also provided under these intervention measures. Thus this was probably forgotten or was overlooked by Member Meh, which was why he had to be told again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u156	Thank you, Madam Vice President! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very short. I must say that I will certainly support the amendment to Article 10 or to our Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The funds will never be enough, and I believe that even in this difficult situation in which Slovenia is located, of course, we are short of funds. However, on the other hand, if we are to cover the bank holes of private banks, I think that our amendment should also support the coalition. But I would touch one another's segment, and none of you are. You've all been talking about a system of protection and rescue. I would say, however, that this crisis, or this disaster that has befallen us, has grown into a system of protection and rescue and that we should talk about crisis management and management. I know that Dr Ljubica Jelusic knows that at the Ministry of Defence for years and years we have been working to bring this system of crisis management and management into force and that now may be the time for all experts to sit together and start thinking in a different way, that when we come to a major crisis – which is not the last time this natural disaster has also shown, it was not only about dealing with the consequences, but will be very long-term and that it was necessary to act in the right way in a short time. And that this management or coordination and action were not then and that we have a national crisis management centre and it has not been activated. Because this is a higher level where it is known exactly who can coordinate, how and then what is the strategic level of coordination for operational and tactical levels. And that it is also a matter of action on the part of the competent, it can take different forms within the Government, the ministries, of course. I think that's the way to start thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u158	[[turn off microphone]] to Article 7. [[…]] However, it is again and again to talk about the need to change, centralise and make the system more operational. Yeah, where it's necessary! The system of protection and rescue has worked for us as it has to. He controlled everything and certainly cannot be led in Velenje or in Zavodnja from Ljubljana. This has already been discussed with other centres, and it would therefore suggest that protection and rescue in some environments have been extremely successful, that there was no issue of whether or not something was wrong and whether anything needed to be changed. And when we needed help, we got help. We didn't need it any more than we did when [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u159	Mr. Meh, who are you replicating?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u160	Mrs. Ramshakov. That's what she was talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u161	She?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u162	She talked about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u163	What were you misinterpreted about?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u164	How? And I was talking about Article 7 and the congregation's tasks.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u165	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u166	I'm replicating it. How do you now understand that I am replicating because I was misunderstood? Excuse me. I'm replicating what she was talking about, and I don't agree with that. And again.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u167	No, no, no, then I totally understand. The replica means that someone was misunderstood and then explains how he should be understood. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u168	You're taking your time, Madam Vice President. You do this very often, and so I have warned you several times. You didn't warn anyone when he was talking about anything. He talked thinly about the laws, about everything there is. You didn't warn him.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u169	Mr. Meh, your time is running out. Here you go, finish up.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u170	I've said my thing. Thus, protection and salvation acted as it must, and here I never agree to talk about something that needs to be changed — just so.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u171	Now, Mrs Ramšak, I will not give you a chance to replicate, because the replica on the replica is not possible, even though Mr Meh misunderstood it. But we're moving on. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the content of Article 7 or the amendment to this Article. If not, we move on to Article 11. The amendment of the SDS Group was tabled at Article 11. I was subsequently informed that the coalition has also tabled an amendment that you have available to view in electronic form or on an e-club. At the same time, I am informed that at the time it was submitted, it has also been amended and this change has already been published on the e-club. We are therefore discussing Article 11 and the two amendments, the coalition and the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Given that an amendment has been tabled by coalition parliamentary groups, which we also support because it has taken this part of our amendment, we will withdraw our amendment to this article and we will support this amendment. Yesterday, we spoke on the committee for quite some time about whether the provision proposed was because there were five different amendments on the table and then this amendment, which we found — at least we in the Slovenian Democratic Party’s Group — was adopted, did not solve all situations, but did not, in particular, solve those that should be dealt with most. With regard to providing alternative electricity through aggregates and covering costs in this regard, we have then drawn up an amendment and have tabled it today, and the amendment is now summarized in this amendment by the coalition's members in an appropriate manner. If this correction has been added in paragraph 5 to this effect, that the same costs as mentioned in paragraph 4 are also introduced in paragraph 5, it is, of course, appropriate and fully covers these situations. It's about cases where the damage was the biggest, and it's about cases where the damage is still coming. A number of aggregates are still in place, especially for the economy, agriculture, remote areas, and will continue to function for a few months before electricity from a stable electricity grid is established. Therefore, it would be unfair in the spirit of this law, which is now under consideration so that all these costs would not be recognized. With this amendment, these costs are now recognized, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. We have debated this amendment or this article a great deal on the committee itself, as has already been said, about five amendments have been prepared for this subject, and I am pleased that we have finally found such a solution, supported by the opposition. Here I would like to thank the members of the group and the Minister and the Secretary of State for finding the true dictatorship that solves this problem in its entirety. It is a problem of using aggregates to provide electricity in cases where it has fallen due to network failure and the reimbursement of these costs. Thanks for the job.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we are moving on to the next article or amendment. The Coalition has tabled an amendment to Article 13. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. Then we move on to Article 15, where the amendment of the SDS Group was tabled. Anybody want a word here? Here you go, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u176	Thank you very much again. Article 15 speaks of placement procedures in the premises of these facilities which will need to be remedied. Yesterday, this amendment we're putting in was rejected on the board. We propose to add a new third paragraph to Article 15, which reads as follows: "The restoration of economic infrastructure in accordance with the provisions referred to in the first paragraph of this Article shall also be subject to the implementation of the replacement infrastructure outside the protection zone of the damaged economic infrastructure facility if the infrastructure manager acquires the service of the owner of the land under which the new economic infrastructure will run and under the conditions set out in paragraph 5 of this Article until the fourth paragraph of this Article." What's this all about? We have cases that will not be so rare when one part of the 20 kilovolt network has been destroyed, the infrastructure manager has found that it would make sense, instead of a replacement infrastructure that is completely destroyed on a certain part of the route, to carry out a tunnel and underground cable. But not exactly on the same route, not in the protected lane of this route, but about 300 meters below the state or local road. If this paragraph is not adopted, which we propose, it will not be possible to do so without, of course, a strong procedure, which takes several years. Yesterday this was rejected, for environmental reasons, it was said, but the same environmental reasons exist in the case of 300 meters higher position than in the case of 300 meters lower, with the performance that has been buried in the long term substantially more rational and preventing such accidents than we have witnessed in this ice grip. And there's no reasonable reason for this amendment not to support anyone. In such cases, where safeguard arrangements are concerned, the operator will have to do the same as in the case of the second paragraph of this Article in accordance with the present fourth or later paragraph of this Article. However, if this is not accepted, it will prevent a number of good solutions, which would be quick, rational, without the owner's consent and his consent to establish a service on this land, it will not be possible to do so. Thus, if this is not accepted, we will needlessly lose a few years of emergency procedure in the installation of this infrastructure or even more, I think that such a better solution will never be implemented, it will never be on that part of the cable route, but it can happen in a year or two again and we will recover something from these broken pillars. We therefore believe that this amendment is justified and should be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Krivec, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. I myself will not vote with an undecided outcome, this amendment, which we discussed on the committee yesterday for as long as possible, was 6:6 in the vote, which also says something, clear that he supported. But I may add another case to make it somehow clear to the other Members what we are talking about. You've probably all imagined that in this law, when you read this article, it's quite free to replace these broken lines and all the other infrastructures, but it's only about the safety belt and this safety belt is relatively narrow for this infrastructure. For a low-voltage network of up to 1 m outside the axis, for long distances of maybe 2 to 3 m, this does not solve in certain cases the problem they will have in the recovery or replacement construction. Imagine that certain pillars that have been destroyed are in the flood zone, which has now proved to be the next phase of this acorn accident. In this case, if we do not accept this, this operator cannot withdraw these pillars from this area or can, but by normal procedure, which means, who has dealt with construction permits for at least a year, a year and a half, or never, if a butterfly is found there or some strange flower happens to grow there. And then we have an example, just as it was presented on the committee, when the distributor of Elektra Ljubljana has one pillar in the middle of the largest flood zone for a year and a half can't move to a more meaningful location, with the owners to arrange everything. I think there was a lot of talk at the time of this natural disaster about why certain distribution waters are not in the country and so on. It is necessary to know that if there is any landing in a local environment now, that individual free-air waters are to be put into the ground, they will be more or less safe outside this corridor, which has been foreseen by the possibility of a solution to this Article 15. If you do not accept this amendment of ours, which still gives the possibility or obligation of the operators to comply with both the owner and all regimes, as well as with all the regimes in force in that area, but does not go into administrative procedure, because it loses a year or two years, we have done nothing in this case, because all these infrastructure facilities will be solved on the same route, which means that they will potentially be threatened in the next case when the gland appears, perhaps only in some local environment, or not even acorn, perhaps already snow, wind and so on. Look, there's been a lot of debate about the need to simplify procedures, if we don't, we haven't done anything. I must say that yesterday the majority, or at least some Members, understood what we were talking about and there was a vote of 6:6, so I would suggest that you think about it, because this really allows some technical solutions to be implemented in terms of improvement and that some threats will not occur again at the next moment. At this point, there are also traffic stations in the flood zone, and if we don't give this option, they'll probably be on the same track for the next five years. And we do not overlook any owners, as was said, or suggest that they avoid it. In most cases, it is the owners who often agree to improve some situation in an area and thus do not have any problems. However, there may be a problem with any other agreement in the administrative procedure. However, if you support this, it means that the operator must adhere to the arrangements applicable to this area and also inform those safeguard regimes or those which take care of it and may proceed without administrative procedure. I think this must be done, because otherwise we have not solved anything good with this law in this infrastructure work.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Krivec. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? If not, we move on to the next one, which is Article 22. I just want to let you know that we have three more amendments ahead of us by 10:30. And Article 31. They are all Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. So, the debate on Article 22 and the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u180	Thank you very much. This Article provides that, for the partial or complete closure of the state road due to the implementation of the rehabilitation of forests damaged by the acorn, it is not necessary to produce this laboratory for road closure, it is still necessary for the Directorate to give its consent within 14 days. In 14 days! However, we do have a provision in the Roads Act in Article 73 which states that in the case of regular maintenance of roads and in such a case, partial or complete imprisonment is not necessary. Thus, when it comes to a partial or complete prison for regular maintenance, none of this is necessary, but when it comes to more urgent and acute situations, it will be necessary. Today, when I drove from Postojna to Unc along this state road along the highway, this procedure took place. I doubt they asked for that consent and waited 14 days to get it. It happened at two ends. It was easy for foresters to clean up, to protect on each side from accidents, to trigger one-way traffic, and the matter simply flowed. Two trucks loaded and so on. Now, however, this strong bureaucracy for all these things will be triggered, as we already have in the law a solution that in the case of regular maintenance says none of this is necessary. For this reason, we propose that this same regulation, which applies to regular maintenance, should be applied also in these cases. We propose that this article, instead of as it reads, reads: "The provisions of the second paragraph of this Act, which provides for the partial or complete closure of the state road for the regular maintenance of roads, shall apply to the implementation of the rehabilitation of forests damaged by the acorn." And all these administrative problems have been solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackwich. Anyone else want a word about the content of article 22 or this amendment? If not, we move on to paragraph 30. Anyone want a word on the contents of Article 30? I'll give you a chance to sign up. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. In the amendment to Article 30, we propose that the second paragraph should be amended to read: "For plots of forest land where, due to a desire, sanitary logging is necessary to an extent of more than 50% of the 10-year possible cut determined by the Slovenian Forestry Institute, the cadastral income determined in accordance with the law governing the determination of cadastral income shall be deducted." This means that the area or parcel that has been so damaged that more than 50 percent of the ten - year cut is to be cut according to plan. Of course, this owner will then have no income for several decades or will not be able to cut out of this forest and have no income. We therefore propose that this income be cancelled, but we would also like to add a third paragraph, which says: "Forgive, write-off or reduction of the cadastral income under this Article shall be applied to the competent tax authority at the request of the Slovenian Forestry Institute, which shall inform the taxable person or the owner of the plot thereof." It is said that this owner does not yet have this bureaucratic work to invest in a reduction, but rather to do so by the Institute of Forests, which establishes such a cut or such volume of sanitary logging as to inform the competent authority and, of course, inform the owner. If it were some kind of automaticism, I think it would be right in this case. This is our proposal in Article 30 or to replace the second paragraph and to give a third paragraph, because I think that we would essentially simplify this matter and that people who will have nothing from cutting or from wood mass for several decades are also going to get what they're going to get from what they're going to cut now in this way in this sanitary section, what they're going to take. [[…]] Probably not as much as if we were cutting regularly, I'd say healthy trees, unbroken, and it would be good for this very institution to find out and that this cadastral income is written off to them in this way. Of course, it will probably also issue, as you say, general for a particular area where the damaged forest is so strong. Only this effort would be made to inform the competent authority that the cadastral income is not being charged for an indefinite period of time, since it is likely that the damage will have consequences in the long term for several decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Krivec, don't you want a word at this point or at this point? Anyone else? If not, we are moving on to the last amendment, to the 31st paragraph and to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Guilty, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. This is the amendment which adds paragraphs third, fourth and fifth paragraphs in Article 31. There was a lot of talk about these amendments on the Committee yesterday. In the third paragraph added, we regulate the solution to the damage to the property — real agricultural land, permanent plantations, orchards and forests — damaged or destroyed infrastructure facilities and economic operators used for business purposes and who have suffered more than a five-day loss of production, write off the property tax. It is said to be a tax write-off on real estate, which is already causing a lot of excitement at the moment and no one knows whether it will be enforced at all, but it is, I would say, in some ways incorrect on our part that those lands and forests, orchards and infrastructure facilities, both owned by local communities and by other economic operators and, clearly, also property destined for business activities, would be burdened with this tax in the event that they were damaged by this greed. We also add the fourth paragraph, where we want to regulate the status of firefighting. I don't think there's any big words you need to say again. It is a matter of regulating the status of an operational volunteer firefighter in the relationship between the employer and the firefighter, where it is necessary to stimulate the employment of firefighters in a way that they are kind to employers or that they give the employer in some way a credit rating, as is the case in Austria. Secondly, additional insurance in cases of intervention shall also be provided. We are also adding a change to the value added law where we propose – this was the State Council's initiative and we think it is quite right – given that all the time that the fertilization took place, as well as before, is talking about wood biomass as an opportunity for this country in terms of further development and new additional capacities. The proposal is to reduce value added tax to wood biomass from this higher level to a lower level and this is a first step towards incentives for the wood processing industry. I suggest you think carefully about these three amendments or this set of three proposals for an amendment. Everyone goes in the direction of facilitating those who have been injured, some activity to regulate the status of voluntary firefighting, which the Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister of Defence promised at each meeting with firefighters on the ground, as long as the stomach was up-to-date, even publicly for the media; and when the acorn breaks down and we come back to warming, everyone forgets about it. I think you'll have a bad moral cat here if you let this go. It is also clear that the first step in accelerating investment in the wood processing industry is to be made in the use of wood. This is our first chance to move from words to actions. The initiative of the State Council was correct, in place. I think they have people in their circles who know what they're talking about. We took that amendment. I think this is the first opportunity to take the first step in this area as well, that this wood processing industry and wood biomass in general also have some concrete credibility through this reduction in the tax rate.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Robert Croat. Excuse me, just a moment, if you'd like to sign up for the debate. We've got five reported discussers. And yet you are the first, Mr. Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I am not pretending to support the coalition MPs and Members of Parliament. However, when we talk about eliminating the consequences of this catastrophic acorn to open a debate on firefighters, it is right that we should not just talk about firefighters. It is necessary to open a debate on all those who operate in the system of protection and rescue and carry out their work or mission on a voluntary basis. Here you have to come out, volunteer firefighters, these are the most, but we must not ignore mountain rescuers, cavemen, cave rescuers, rescue guides and more. So, you're all doing your job on a voluntary basis, and all these people are working somewhere. And all these people usually have problems with employers when they need to intervene and rescue and help people in distress. I think now is the time when there will be no more just pyro-painting by firefighters, rescuers, such or otherwise, but we will have to take a step further. We are all aware that we are in an economic crisis and that any loss of income is a problem for every employer. Here we propose the status of a firefighter, a volunteer firefighter, or the status of any rescuer I have mentioned earlier, that this is the relationship between the employer, which stimulates the employment of firefighters by reducing insurance premiums for the employer and having tax reliefs. Look, this is the thing to do. I think it's right for us to start talking about these things now that things are still hot, because I have a feeling that even here, in this house, the more this natural disaster goes away, the more we forget about these things. And I will not give up and believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party, too, we will not give up and if you do not prepare the law – I say of course to the Government – we will prepare it ourselves. Because now is really the time to move on. Then you'll say again, we've got an emergency session again, we've got the opposition law again, we've got to reject it again, and it's gonna be embarrassing again. We therefore propose that the Government take a step forward to convene all important stakeholders in the protection and resolution system and draft a law that will solve this problem. It's a problem for the employer to allow someone to intervene: income loss, leave of absence. Indeed, certain things are coming back, we agree, this has already been arranged in some way in the Fires Act. But this relationship between the employer and the volunteer firefighter is not regulated and should be regulated. I suggest or I want you to understand this amendment as an appeal to the government, to the coalition, to take a step forward. Believe me, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, you have full support for any change that will go in the direction that I have talked about. And we're not just talking about firefighters, we're talking about a whole system of protection and rescue that works on a voluntary basis. All you have to do is get married. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u188	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I myself will support the amendment to Article 31 because it says that the new three paragraphs, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs are added. Of course, I will also focus on a question that my colleague Robert Hrvat has already said a lot about. We're talking about regulating the status of an operational volunteer firefighter. We have already talked about this and this issue on the Defence Committee, where everyone's big mouth was, how we're going to settle this issue as soon as possible. We then said this yesterday on the Infrastructure Committee, where, once again, all the parliamentary groups or members of the coalition said how urgently this problem must be solved, how important the firefighters are to us and so on. We all know they're still important! And now they have proved themselves and have shown that their status needs to be properly regulated as soon as possible. What disturbed me and what I said to the Infrastructure Committee yesterday was that all the coalition groups voted against the amendment. These are Social Democrats, this is Virant's List, this is DeSUS, called Erjavce's Group, as well as Jankov's Group – in fact I do not say Positive Slovenia because they are far from Positive Slovenia. If the coalition speaks one way and, on the other hand, when it must be decided, it is against what it says, it is not the right coalition to work in the interests of everyone and everyone and at least to work in the interests of all firefighters and firefighters and all those who have demonstrated how self-sacrifice they have fought to save the lives and property of the Slovenes and Slovenes. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say that DeSUS did not vote against this amendment because I would not recognise the rights of firefighters, because I would not respect them and any others who voluntarily assisted in this trap and all those who voluntarily work in other areas. Mr Hrovat listed mountain rescuers, cave rescuers, rescue dogs guides, and I think he had everything else in mind and so do I. Of course, we cannot agree that in this law, which deals with the removal of the consequences of an accident, this is what this is meant by the desire to introduce into this law also matters relating to firefighters, rights for firefighters – forgive because this area is governed by the Fires Act and I think that the Government will understand the Members' appeal that these matters be regulated for voluntary firefighters in the Fires Act. I also appeal to this because I understand that volunteers have problems with employers who, of course, are not happy if they have a shortage of workers at a time when citizens and citizens need voluntary assistance from firefighters. I also believe that the Value Added Tax Act is the law in which this proposal falls under point 5 of the SDS Amendment – that is, matters relating to wood biomass. Here, too, I appeal to the Government to prepare an amendment to this law and to submit it to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u192	Madam Vice President! Once in this country, it is necessary to pour pure wine in a clear and loud manner and stop deceiving the Slovenian people! Yesterday, on the Infrastructure Committee, DeSUS – and Mrs Porotat – voted against the amendment I spoke about earlier. Please do not speak and deceive the Slovenian people!
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u193	That should be a replica, Mr. Pojbich, but it wasn't a replica. I am simply reminding you that if anyone wants to explain anything else, there will be another round of debates to be opened. Mrs Popot, you don't have a chance to replicate, because Mr Pojbič just signed up for the replica. But you'll keep it as it is. It is only Mr Bevk's turn to discuss it. Is it your turn, Dr. Jelusic? Here you go, Mrs. Jelusich.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u194	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. I will talk about that part of this amendment to Article 31, which is written in paragraph 4, concerning the regulation of the status of firefighters. I will talk about what is written in the amendment and what the proponents have said in the previous debate. First of all, I think it is very important that my colleague Hrvat said that various volunteers, firefighters, mountain rescuers, cavemen, first aid workers, Red Cross, Karitas, scouts, campers and many others were involved in the resolution of the consequences of natural disasters. The status of all these people, their position under the system of protection against natural and other disasters, is regulated by the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. Therefore, if you wanted to regulate the status of all these people who were all alarmed, called in and participated in the resolution of the consequences of the previous natural disaster, you should state in your amendment that you wish to amend the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents and not only the Firearms Act. You're threatening to file your marriage. I must remind you that you have already done this several times and that you will probably submit the same as you did in 2010 during the time of my government, at the beginning of the year, that at the beginning of the year, we have then settled many things that were spoken of not only by firefighters, but by all volunteers, that their problem was in particular with employers, also through an appropriate amendment to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, which was adopted 23. 11. 2010 and since there were 70 votes in favour in the then National Assembly, I suppose or assume that there was probably some SDS voice in between, and that you agreed at the time, what was written in the amendment of that law and, above all, that you knew what was already arranged. So, I suggest that we do not talk again today about how to regulate the remuneration of personal income and such things, because this is already settled. Let us not forget that the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters makes it very clear that employers are entitled to reimbursement of personal income and all contributions arising from the personal income of a volunteer in a rescue mission for the entire time of his absence. Secondly, it is written that the employer is entitled to up to 20 per cent of the loss of profits for this missing volunteer. Thirdly, it is written that it is entitled to reimbursement of the hospital in the event of accidental injury to that volunteer at a time when either he is trained or he is carrying out a rescue operation. Fourthly, it is written that even in cases where the injury is worse, it is said that it is missing for a long time, this injury is considered a professional injury or injury at work. It is said that the key problems that employers have always had with volunteers were justified by the 2010 supplements. However, other additions and other benefits are also possible if the state can pay them. However, if it cannot, if it is in a financial situation as it is now - and it was also in 2010 - then certain benefits cannot be introduced. And if you are already referring to the case of Austria, please explain why the Austrian volunteers were voluntary firefighters with their aggregates, which were called upon within the framework of the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism, it is said that the State has called them. Why did they come to Slovenia at the expense of their personal leave if their status in Austria has been so well regulated? You are talking about the need to provide funds, so that the state, the government, can provide funds for the provision of operational firefighters. These funds are provided, and the municipality must guarantee the insurance of operational firefighters as part of the appropriate spending. And the municipality in which the operational firefighters are classified under the Firearms Act now is, of course, obliged to ensure the insurance of operational firefighters. Plus, it's her job to ensure preventive health checks on operational firefighters. Thirdly, in the event that the State calls firefighters or other rescue workers into its own account, within the framework of its national plan, the Government or the Department of Protection and Rescue shall reimburse all costs arising from the participation of such an operator or rescuer in the event of a natural disaster. Then you say the state should provide voluntary operational firefighters with funding for additional health insurance. In 2010, we also tried to arrange one part of this, so we said, in the framework of the training of those operational firefighters trained for the use of insulating breathing appliances, in short, those who are probably very often called on because they have a particular number of used knowledge, for those who, in the framework of training when they are on Igu, also provide financial resources for their additional health insurance and again additional health insurance provided to the Government as soon as it calls — let's say, as it happened, firefighters from Primorska and Prekmur and went to help the Notranjska. The government’s task was to provide these people with additional health insurance — and, of course, it did. Now, if you're talking about extra pension insurance, I wonder if you're so terribly proud of the ZPIZ-2 where you were then. When you accepted ZPIZ-2, you could also introduce additional pension insurance for firefighters, if that were possible, and if the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs at that time could agree to this at all. It cannot, however, be because the additional pension insurance is related to the profession and the volunteers do not carry out the profession. This does not mean that if we reject this amendment, we are ungrateful to the firefighters. We just want to say or I want to explain that many of the things you're talking about are already arranged, that the legislation has already grown, that this has already been taken into account, that some things are still in order to be regulated. This should be an integral part of the amendment of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents and, if you explicitly want something special to be done to the firefighters, then also the Fire Act. But if you're talking about all volunteers, then I'm warning again, just as I did four years ago, then please, let's use the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, because there's a regulated status for all volunteers and we all have to be grateful. And not only do we talk about firefighters at this point, it is true that there are 45 000 operational firefighters and five thousand volunteers from these other companies in the entire number of volunteers in the system of protection against natural and other disasters. It is true that most of them, but I warn you all, have to be regulated. Just like it's written now, I don't want to support it. However, support must be given to this matter in the latter place and within the framework of legislation as it changes in the field of protection and rescue, and not in the intervention law adopted for the use of money in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Reploco wanted Mr. Robert Croat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u196	Thank you. I'm glad you finally said what you wanted to say, but you kept it to the end. So everything I've talked about before is true and I'm right. Let me tell you something. If everything's so nice and all right, then the president of the government should have called some company to let the firemen off the job and intervene. That's what happened! We've been watching this on TV, and you can't deny it either, even though you say you've arranged everything in the marriage you've talked about. It's not true that it's all arranged. Only 20 percent, you said right, only 20 percent is out or how much? [[…]] I say, if we are so proud and need them, and these are the people who spend their free time on these things, things should be arranged. And I'll tell you one more thing, and I think it's either the last time or twice we've talked about a system of protection and rescue. You know, the budget is always a reflection of the priorities of every single government and of yours; and not saying that there is no money, that there is a crisis and I don't know what. If people need help when people need help, they go to help these volunteers! These people need to be given some credit. And not just them, but their employers. And it's not arranged and you're not saying it's arranged, like you said before. If everything was as pink as you say everything is arranged, but you think it's good and nice that there's a TV show going on tonight where voluntary contributions are being collected for Slovenian firefighters. Where did we come from? As a volunteer, as a professional firefighter, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And you are in power and you are obliged to provide funds for the equipment of firefighters, mountain rescuers and all those operating in the protection and rescue system. So it's not all as beautiful as you've now shown how everything is regulated in the law. It's not! Before I replicated it, I told you why I stopped by and talked about everyone: because I am aware that you will not accept this amendment, but we opened the debate, as we did in 2010, when it happened. And I believe it will be now, because it will be hard to be quiet because it's too messy a thing. Now the Ministry of Defence will also have to take a step forward and the SDS will always follow you, believe you will.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please. Mr. Meh, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Some amendments are not substantively part of this intervention law, and this is precisely the amendment that speaks of the status of the firefighter. I do not think it is appropriate to generalise the statement made by the President of the Government when she called on the company to go to the hands of voluntary firefighters – all companies. The vast majority of firefighters do not have these problems; they may only be in extremely rare companies that hinder the work of volunteer firefighters. And even if the status is yet to be fully regulated, there will be a company where they will have these problems and interfere with their work. Yesterday we also discussed this in the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, which is not the parental committee on these issues. However, Mr Darko But, Director of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, was present. I wanted to take a look at the tapegram of this yesterday's session, but it's not finished yet, and it's not yet to quote what the director of the Department of Protection and Rescue, Darko But, of course, said. If I had a quote, I'd be reproducing it for you right now. But in my memory, he said that at the Ministry of Defence, they would resolve the issue of voluntary firefighters in a comprehensive manner in the system law and would conduct a hearing at the National Defence Committee of this National Assembly. In this way, I believe and believe that the Government will fully regulate the status of firefighter in order to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm opening up an opportunity to apply. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic is first in line, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to complete my reply from before, and it has been said why the President of the Government has called on employers to allow volunteers to go to rescue. The Prime Minister of the Government had two opportunities to kindly ask employers to carry out what is applicable to them in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, or to remind them of 100th and another article in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, where it says that employers who have employed operational paramedics are fined and do not allow them when called upon to go to rescue. The President of the Government obviously decided that it would be better if he kindly invited and asked certain employers through the media to avoid avoiding their obligations under the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I have no problem with supporting this amendment, which we are discussing, but especially I think it is important and some added value is even the debate itself. Here I support Dr. Ljubica Jelusič's thinking when he says that the Fire Act is the one who has to regulate the status of the firefighter, and so on, that the employer will be motivated, interested in hiring the firefighter. How technically this is done is a matter of details in marriage. In this place, I would also like to commend the former Minister of Defence when she greeted the ranks of the Murish firefighters in my village, exchanged a few words with each of them – you know, this means a lot to volunteers if they can shake hands and exchange a few words with the Minister of Defence. This is also some added value that I somehow miss with the current Minister of Defence, and I hope that this will be improved in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, this disaster that has hit us should absolutely unify us, we should be united in order to find the best solutions to match the new disasters that will come unquestionably. And when we are talking about firefighting, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that, although my apologies are not exactly part of the debate on this amendment, I invite you, however, to support the law, to supplement the Real Estate Tax Act, which was written by Members of the New Slovenia and filed on 23 January, far before the accident that hit us. Today in the State Council, this law received 10-0 support, and I almost had to defend representatives of the Ministry of Finance who were in an unenviable position. They explained that if the Association of Firefighters of Slovenia is a humanitarian organization – and I printed this morning a survey of humanitarian organisations and the Firefighters Association is not on this list this morning – and further explained that then all voluntary firefighters are also automatically humanitarian organisations and would then be exempt from real estate tax under Article 4, paragraph 8, of the Real Estate Tax Act. Completely depressed, over! Why are we so afraid to support the micro-law sometimes, and a few words have an article written by the opposition? Let's do this if we really care about firemen! 151 thousand and some of the registered volunteer firefighters, about a thousand 400 voluntary firefighters' companies, over 2,000 firehouses and other properties, exercise sites and so on. I live in a village where last year a voluntary fire company had about four dozen in the state competition, we have already organized four national competitions – and we have received an informational calculation! Did you know that voluntary fire companies have been given informational calculations? And some micro-voluntary fire company gets an information calculation of 750 euros. Come on! Someone will have to be responsible for this paper and for this cost for these informational calculations, and for us legislators, it is our job to fix this in law. I'd like to invite you to join us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mariana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u204	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have to say again before this National Assembly because some people did not understand or did not want to understand my explanation why I said on the Infrastructure and Space Committee last night that the third, excuse me, fourth and fifth paragraphs of the SDS amendment do not fall under this law. They are not because they regulate other areas, the real field of firefighting belonging to the Fires Act and wood biomass, which is part of the Value Added Tax Act, because it is a tax. And I repeat: I am for these things to be arranged, to be arranged where they must be, because I am a lawyer and I understand that we cannot mix pears and potatoes into one marriage. Then I would like to say that Mrs Ljubica Jelusič has explained well that the Law on the Protection against Natural Disasters regulates in detail these benefits that we now want to bring into this law. So that's another reason I'm more confident that my decision is right. As I said before, DeSUS of course supports these ideas and we are in favour of regulating the legislation – this area where it belongs – so that we cannot support this amendment in such a text. I would like to say another opinion on directors when there is a problem that a firefighter must take action. Perhaps some do not understand this, and because there is a disruption in the work process, they have a different opinion. The law regulates this, and this is also explained by Mrs Ljubica Jelusič, and she also explained the actions of our President of the Government in this last case, when it came to eliminating the consequences of her lust, that she appealed to all or asked the directors to allow those who have to take action to do so. That's what I'm asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u206	Dear colleagues and colleagues! If anything, today's debate can help us to give the employer some insight into what their duties are in relation to their employees, in particular operational firefighters. In light of the calls made by the Prime Minister, it was obvious that all employers did not know what the law was telling them. Nevertheless, I will read the Fires Act, Article 25, which says, "The volunteer firefighter is compensated for his salary during the intervention." Then: "Replacement of salary is paid by the employer in the burden of the congregation." That's what Article 25 says. Then the third paragraph of Article 25 states that a volunteer firefighter, due to participation in an intervention or training, should not – listen well – forgive, assign to another job or otherwise harm him. And then there's the 36th article, which says that the employer is obliged to make it possible for the operational firefighter to be excused. So we already have a law that's obviously not being implemented. This is also what I mentioned earlier in the introduction to the Group's position that we are adopting intervention laws, where we are interfering in certain areas where laws are already in force but no one is implementing them. What I have read to you now is an existing law; and even more; even the 45th article provides for penalties if employers do not take this into account. Then you have to invite someone, even on TV, to leave the operative firefighters in action. Maybe people don't realize that it's someone else's turn today to help him, and tomorrow it can be us. This is some kind of arrangement, some level that we have brought to this country as regards operational firefighters, but of course there is a possibility that this level of operational firefighter status is being upgraded. And the amendment that is under discussion today, which we are talking about, actually introduces this. What I've read to you before and what the law already stipulates, this amendment would be an additional upgrade. How and in what way would we upgrade? If today the operational firefighters represent a burden for a number of employers, perhaps today many employers are afraid to hire firefighters because they know that they may go into an operational action at some point, because they may know that firefighters, their workers, will not be present for three or four days on the job because they are in operational action. That's exactly what happened at the last icicle when the operatives were three or four days in the field. And a lot of employers see this as a burden and as something that is not the most encouraging for the employer. That is why a number of operational firefighters are in a subordinate position. Today, when you're looking for a job when you go to a job interview, it's also one of the questions about whether you're an operative firefighter. This amendment, which has been tabled, creates or works merely to make the operational firefighter a highly competitive advantage under this amendment. The amendment proposes that the employment of operational firefighters in employers be rewarded with various tax exemptions and with certain exemptions for contributions. It is certainly a matter of upgrading the status of firefighters, and this is certainly in the direction that operational firefighters will have a greater chance of finding a job to be their mission, their commitment to the advantage, not their weakness. That it would be a privilege for employers to hire such and qualified people. If you've read the amendment in detail, the amendment doesn't go into detail, but it gives us the opportunity to make these things more precise and more detailed, and in a way, I'll say, let's round up the firefighter status. For this reason, I sincerely hope that all of these amendments will be supported together and thus contribute to making the status of the operational firefighter more interesting. When I was in the general fire department last weekend, [[…]] [[Incomprehensible]] In the village and there we talked to our fellow firefighters about these problems, there came a statement on the day that definitely holds, which is: if ever, then today is the right time to upgrade the firefighter's status. Today, firefighters and firefighters are widely discussed. There's a lot of lights and cameras on the fire extinguisher. Policy is also more responsive to these issues and pays more attention to them. Once things start to go away and after this natural disaster has passed, these problems will be forgotten again and we will start dealing with other problems that this country, of course, has. For this reason, I repeat that if ever, then today and now is the right time to upgrade the status of operational firefighters with this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u207	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I suggest you sign up for the debate. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u208	I think that this debate on this amendment on the regulation of the status of voluntary firefighters has been useful. Also yesterday on the committee, despite the fact that there is not yet a portion of the magnetogram mentioned by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bevk was somehow expressed there by the representative of the Government that this status is not properly regulated, both as regards voluntary firefighters and other rescue workers and others working under Civil Protection. That this situation needs to be fully regulated at systemic level, but there is indeed an unanswered question about the time frame within which we will reach this comprehensive regime. But no matter what, I think it's awareness in this hall of all of us that the time has come when these things really need to be settled. As colleague Robert Hrvat said, if this amendment is not adopted here today, then there is this public commitment, given to the committee of the representative of the Government, that this legislative formal procedure will soon experience the light of the world; first at the government and then at the National Assembly. In this amendment, which we are talking about, we are also proposing that, irrespective of the provisions of the law governing the property tax, the tax be set aside for the affected agricultural land, permanent plantings, orchards, forests, damaged or destroyed infrastructure facilities and for all economic operators used for their basic activities if they have been out of service for more than 5 days. This amendment was also rejected yesterday; in our view, there is no reason for such rejection. Until this year, we did not know for most of these property taxes on real estate at all, and you know that chaos, confusion, is happening with the implementation of this law. Today, in the framework of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, for this reason, we have made a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where this committee should, given that this has not happened, which we believe should have called on the Government to publicly withdraw all these information notifications and calculations and mark them as irrelevant. Because if this situation, which now continues at the expositions of Gursa and the administrative units, continues, we fear that the lives of people working behind these windows who are not guilty of this confusion and what is happening now will be slowly at risk. So, we expect a public call immediately that everything Gurs has sent is irrelevant. That's the first step. And the second step is to get this law over with. It is intended to be placed on the table of the starting point, how the taxation of real estate will be renewed, given what we now have, to be discussed in public and then to sort of settle this situation in some meaningful way, in a reasonable way, but not as regulated now by this unfortunate real estate tax law. This, as you know, has always been pointed out in the legislative procedure of December, and exactly what we have warned about has now really happened. That is why we do not understand why the rejection of this amendment here, when it comes to land that has been affected, which for many years will not be in place when it comes to forests that have been completely destroyed, and a few decades since their use will not be of any economic value, but only costs. Why was this amendment rejected yesterday? We do not see one reasonable, rational reason, and we propose that in the context of today's decision-making session of the National Assembly this amendment be confirmed and that these people who have been most affected and those who have suffered the greatest harm because they have not operated for days at least some moral satisfaction in this area. In addition, we have here taken the amendment of the State Council to reduce VAT to woody biomass.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u209	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? More. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I am still in that part of this amendment to Article 31 concerning firefighters, and I would like to point out once again that volunteers, rescuers of different kinds and not just firefighters are involved in natural disasters. Therefore, if we are to regulate or improve the situation of these volunteers, this must be done in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. The State and society usually regulates such things, depending on the development of society, in a new or complementary way. So today we can say that we feel that the situation of firefighters and other volunteers may not be well arranged for the situations we live in. But we cannot say that the things you have written in this amendment are not settled. Most of these things that are written here are already arranged, but if you are going to bear the costs for firefighters, and in particular for the insurance of operational firefighters for preventive health checks of operational firefighters, if you are going to transfer these costs to the country, then I would ask you where the money went in the municipalities, which is prescribed for the provision of protection against natural and other disasters as part of the appropriate spending. On one occasion, prior to this law, it was explicitly stated that 4% of their budget should be allocated to firefighters for all matters in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. But, as they used to say, the mayor's lobby in this House then objected to explicitly writing in the Law on Local Self-Government how much money must be spent to protect against natural and other disasters. I would say: Let’s change that law and write down how many congregations have to use for the needs of either operational firefighters or for the needs of all rescue workers whose units are established in their congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u211	Thank you. He wants to discuss Robert Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jelusič, see the first indent states that the status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter with which the employment of firefighters is stimulated by reducing the employer's insurance premiums and having tax reliefs. What's he talking about? Not about the penalties, which you mentioned earlier, that this is enshrined in that law, we are talking about incentives; these incentives are lacking for employers, that is the problem. And that's what we want to do. It's not arranged anywhere. And another thing is, you talk about how much money, how much money was provided to firefighters, how much the congregations needed to provide. Remember the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party to co-finance the purchase of fire and rescue equipment. How much work did we have for you to switch over and accept the $3 million? The State does not commit what it owes, let alone to the congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u213	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 31? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I therefore interrupt this item on the agenda, and I also interrupt the 57th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which we will continue by vote at 7 p.m. I hereby adjourn the session and proceed with the vote at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u214	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices before that. Thank you for your attention. I assume you've checked the voting devices. This is why we continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2014, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 2. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Robert Hrvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Once again in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will try to convince you to decide today on the Forest Act to support our amendment, which eliminates or destroys the possibility of transporting only 6 cubic metres of wood for your own needs. We are talking about forest owners who have a valid cutting decision, but they cannot bring this wood home or to a saw for their own needs if they do not have a carrier or if they drive less than 6 cubic metres. Look, we don't think that makes sense, and we suggest that this be deleted or deleted from this article. Look, I'm gonna ask three more questions, and there are rhetorical questions, because I know I'm not gonna get an answer. Why should forest owners who cut for their own needs and have a decision on logging be burdened by limiting them so that they can only bring in 6 cubic metres of wood? Why introduce paying carriers if you find that a simple transport charter ensures the necessary care as required by the Regulation of the European Union? And why are disproportionately high penalties imposed for offences that are about ten times higher than the value of loaded wood? So these are questions that, unfortunately, have not been answered today. We have not received an answer in the sense that it is just right and nothing else. So it's a decision. These 6 cubic metres were dosed over the thumb and for these 6 cubic metres you have today, we all have the opportunity to wipe them out and that the forest owner with the cut decision can bring the wood as much as he wants. That is all this is about, and here we ask you to reason to support our amendment, because it is some reasonable solution and a burden on the forest owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u216	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 24. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Robert Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u217	Thanks again. This amendment is, in some ways, crucial to the Law on Forests itself. We welcome the Government's decision that it came with an amendment to Article 24, where for one year things are being simplified with regard to the harvesting of wood, the cutting of wood and all things belonging to it. And it's definitely the right step in the right direction. Of course, we are skeptical that the rehabilitation of forests after such catastrophic captures will be completed by April 2015. I don't think he's here in the National Assembly to believe that forest rehabilitation will be completed by then. And we don't want anything but to define it in the law, not with some date that is valid for one year, but we are proposing a slightly longer period, because I believe that this deadline will be much longer than one year, for the recovery to replace this date with "until the final recovery of the consequences of the acorno". That's all this is about. It is a simple solution that covers everything and that should not disturb anyone, because we are all aware that recovery will not be possible in one year. If this amendment is not adopted today, I said earlier in the debate, I can say with absolute certainty that in one year there will be a recast of the Law on Forests as we extend this deadline. And we all know that. I propose, or in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that you follow our amendment, our proposal, and we extend this deadline only until such time as this rehabilitation takes place. Here we must now play reason, otherwise we will be sitting again in April or perhaps a month earlier and discussing the extension of this period. And that would be bad. I think today we can pack it all up and finish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u218	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I am disappointed or do not understand that no amendments by the Slovenian Democratic Party have been adopted. We wonder what else we can actually do. That's when we prepared the amendments when you first brought to the National Assembly of the Forest Act, last summer. We were proposing our own marriage, which was better at saving things. We have now prepared amendments — all amendments have been rejected, and I am sure they have gone in the right direction. In the introduction to the presentation of our Group's position, I said at the outset: "In the Slovenian Democratic Party we support all measures that contribute positively to the resolution of the situation in Slovenian forests, forestry and Slovenian farms." That is also what I had in mind at the time, and we talked a lot about these things in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in our parliamentary group. With the moment that you brought Article 24 to the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 24, where you have simplified the procedures because of this acorn, where there is no need for carriers, is still a traceability, where you do not restrict forest owners to travel only 6 cubic metres, and where you have reduced the penalties a little, we have taken this as a measure in the right direction. I therefore predict that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, this law will also be supported by Article 24 for this amendment. Of course, we are already predicting that before this deadline we will be introducing a new Forest Law and this system, which is now in Article 24, we propose an extension that will also be in force in the future. Since the fact is that traceability is ensured, we do not burden the forest owners administratively, and the penalties are, let's say, as proportionate as they are. So, once again, I announce my support for this law, and at the same time, I predict that we will amend the Forest Act before this period of one year ends, in order to extend this simplification even further or for an indefinite period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u220	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for Supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on measures to remedy the effects of greed between 30 January and 10 February 2014, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. The decision will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 26. 2. 2014, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 7, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u221	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this amendment to Article 7. For two reasons. The first is that by means of an amendment, we will provide funds specifically for the rehabilitation of local public infrastructure and forest roads to the municipalities. We believe that this is important, given that the congregations were the first to approach this rehabilitation, that this rehabilitation is speeding up and that it will be completed in the coming weeks. It is important because this clearing of these forest roads will allow for the normal rehabilitation of forest areas and we believe that these resources should also be explicitly provided under this intervention law. The second reason is an additional financial source, where we are talking about the use of the funds of the existing financial perspective and the possibility of using the funds from the following financial perspective. These arguments, which we have heard in the debate, have somehow deteriorated, because those who argued that it would not be possible to use these arguments, you have rejected yourself when you found that these funds would be needed and important for the rehabilitation of economic infrastructure in particular. Given that the assessment of damage to rail infrastructure is somewhere at the level of €60 million and on energy, if it is not even greater, given that a large part of the fifth corridor will be thoroughly recovered from this money, of course, it would be a reasonable expectation that European cohesion funds will also be allocated for this purpose. Of course not at the expense of other projects. From this point of view, I would like to remind those responsible, especially at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, that certain approvals of certain applications are unnecessary in particular with regard to water supply, where everything is prepared, procedures are carried out and investments cannot be started because there are no relevant decisions. However, this is an existing financial perspective that threatens us not to be able to absorb all the money available. And we are not talking about these funds, we are not talking about funds for those projects that are ready and that could already be implemented and run if this paperwork were to be glass, but we are talking about the need, if this has not already been done, to immediately scan the situation, to find out which projects will not be implemented by 2015, and these funds are intended to repair the economic infrastructure primarily in the railway corridor. In this part of the fifth corridor, which is important for the transshipment needs of Luke Koper. For this reason, of course, we will support this amendment because it also allows the use of these funds and also enables the use of resources to repair damaged local infrastructure within municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u222	Thank you. Can we decide on the amendment? We vote on the amendment to Article 7, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to article 11, the proposaler – the coalition's parliamentary group. Here I must also warn you that if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same motions will become irrelevant to Article 13. We can decide on the amendment to Article 11. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 13, and we are proposing a parliamentary group of coalitions. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 15, the drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. We are amending an article that discusses construction and spatial procedures. The aim of this law is to reverse all procedures that will allow for faster and better recovery. We're proposing an amendment that I'm going to read. This amendment provides that the restoration of economic infrastructure in accordance with the provisions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article shall also be subject to the implementation of the replacement infrastructure outside the protection zone of the damaged economic infrastructure facility if the infrastructure manager acquires the service of the owner of the land under which the new economic infrastructure is to take place and under the conditions laid down in paragraph 5 of this Article. However, paragraph 5 speaks of areas protected by special regulations, since the operator must announce and obtain an opinion 14 days before the beginning of the part and 3 days before the beginning of the part shall also inform the co-operators. This amendment saves the situation that your mouth is full of in order to save them. We are talking about the public asking why some things are not already being implemented or are not being done, if you do not accept this amendment, no one can solve these matters in this way. Another issue that is being resolved by our amendment is the case that we have that we have certain pillars that are on the power lines or on the low voltage network that are now in the flood zone. In this case, if we do not accept this amendment, we cannot remove these pillars from these routes. We have a traphoposto, which is also in the flood zone. At the moment, in the event that this amendment is not accepted, it cannot be withdrawn from this area, but recovery must be done in this area. And there are some other examples that we could say that are necessary from practical points of view to simplify them with such a solution. Otherwise, any such solution means a normal procedure and a clear consensus of all co-legislators, in particular the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. But it's a little bit of a shift from the existing routes. If we allow and allow Article 15 to remain without our amendment, it means that the possibility of rehabilitation and restoration of these facilities is only in the corridor which is now in the space. even if it is taking place in the most unfavourable terrain, which in the next accident means damage again. I don't know if we're going to let the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment dictate a solution here, which is an additional burden on our budget. It is already a major disaster, and now we will bring another disaster to all those who want to do better on the ground by not supporting an amendment that allows for at least some normal solutions in space. Please read it again and understand what we're talking about, because these [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u224	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We are voting on the amendment to Article 15, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 38. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 22, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 30, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 31st Article, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u225	Three things are regulated in this amendment. One is a reduction in VAT on wood-based biomass, which was the proposal of the State Council. The second is the regulation, formal regulation, the upgrade of the current regime of voluntary firefighter status, on which we somehow agreed on a committee yesterday that it was time for these things to be settled. The representative of the Government has ensured that this situation will be addressed through a system-wide overhaul of legislation, but unfortunately he has not said what time frame this will take place. And the third provision introduced by this amendment is the write-off of property taxes on all affected agricultural land, permanent plantations, orchards, damaged forests, damaged or destroyed infrastructure facilities and economic entities for real estate in which they are engaged and in which they have been unable to operate for more than 5 days because of this ice catch. This amendment would make sense to support, in particular as regards this write-off of the real estate tax. Previously, this tax on these agricultural lands, for forests, for orchards and so on, we did not know. It was introduced by the Real Estate Tax Act, on which we know what is happening in the last days at the windows of administrative units and Gurs; we know that the confusion is complete, that there is virtually no information notice that does not contain a mistake. For this reason, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has today made a request to convene an urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance, where it is intended to call on the Government to publicly revoke all these information messages and calculations, because otherwise we are afraid that something bad will happen at these windows, and to those people who are not at fault for this confusion. And of course, secondly, what we have proposed and what would be reasonable is that, even through this amendment, this real estate tax law should be opened up, because it will not be implemented and enforced, and that a systemic basis should be drawn up, how and how this area should be regulated, and that public debate should be held in the context of a profession that knows and manages these matters. However, the first step on this path should be taken today with the support of this amendment, which is why we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, because it means a signal to all those affected in this icy sense that, given that a number of years will not be able to benefit from the fruits of these agricultural and forestry lands, it will allow them at least one small step towards the recovery of these affected lands. That is why we will support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u226	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u227	Thank you very much, President. We will not support this complement in our Group of Members. In particular, because of those provisions relating to interference with the Firearms Act. First of all, I would like to point out that we have before us an intervention law, which is a special, special law that attempts to interfere with the general system law governing the field of firefighting. This is not possible – for the first time. Secondly, if we want to regulate the status of all volunteers or upgrade the status of volunteers in a better way, this should be regulated in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents and not in the Firearms Act for only one part of the volunteers. Next time, we are also against this because our coalition contract now states that we will carry out an analysis at the Department of Protection and Rescue, together with the Fire and with all interested fire companies, an analysis of all open problems in the field of protection against natural and other disasters, as a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters will expire next year and a new programme will have to be drawn up. As part of the arrangements between the Fire and the Protection and Rescue Authority, there is also an agreement on whether and how the status of volunteers should be upgraded. For the time being, the situation is that there is no single position on how to reward employers who have employed volunteers on the basis of employers’ ratings in the Gasilian Union. As long as there is no unified position on the part of the expert organisation, I think that we cannot decide on this here too at political level. We are also opposed because this article wants to cut into the transfer of the insurance payer to operational firefighters and also to preventive health checks. The Firearms Act clearly provides that a contract for the performance of a public fire service is to be adopted each year and also specifies who is responsible for the payment of insurance and preventive health checks for operational firefighters. If anyone thinks that this has to be transferred to the country, he only changes the payer and the financial resources are not provided for it. We are also against this because additional health insurance for those operatives or those volunteers who are called upon is already provided in existing legislation. And lastly, we are against the fact that firefighters are subject to additional pension insurance in this law because it also interferes with another system law, which is the ZPIZ-2. If the applicant had taken these proposals seriously, then in 2012, when the PIZ-2 was being drafted, it had not already arranged it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u228	Can we make a decision? We are voting on the amendment to the 31st Article, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Articles 11 and 13 of the amended bill, so I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? Mr Jani Möderndorfer wishes for the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u229	On behalf of the coalition, we will table an amendment to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u230	Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break, so we'll resume at 7:00. 45.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-26-SDZ6-Izredna-57.ana.u231	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work! We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 11, the proposaler – the coalition's parliamentary group. Does anyone want to discuss it or can we make a decision? I note that there are no applications for debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition to Article 11. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes our decision on the amendments. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that, due to the amendment adopted, the bill has not been harmonised, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Can we make a decision? We're voting on the law. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and also conclude the 57th extraordinary meeting of the assembly. Thank you for today and for seeing me at the next session.
