ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Andrej Chus, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr. Franz Laj, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, mag. Branko Grims, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Mr. Roberto Battelli and Dr. László Göncz I invited the representative of the State Council and representatives of the Government. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, 23 December 2014, by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Employment of Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. At its 12th extraordinary meeting on 22 December 2014, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities be re-elected before the announcement. In order to explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Alojz Kovška.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Member and Members of Parliament! The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall be held at the 3rd ordinary meeting of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia. 12. 2014 adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, following an urgent procedure. As a proponent of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not give convincing reasons to prove the urgency of the procedure as well as the expected financial impact of the measure in terms of budgetary balance for 2015. The main problem with the consideration of this law is that it is entirely subordinate to the implementation of the fiscal measure reflected in Article 7, paragraph 7, of the novel, which amends Article 74 of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. This is about taking away part of public funds from disabled companies, which are formed as strictly earmarked public funds and used as State aid exclusively for the purpose of training and employment of disabled persons in disabled enterprises under special conditions. The legislative process did not mention any single fact that would justify a sudden reduction of these funds, especially since these means create opportunities for employment of persons with disabilities or allow the continued existence of disabled companies. The explanation of the measure is objectively substantive and formally misleading, as it does not argue that only economic benefits for the salaries of non-disabled persons are being reduced. In the case of disabled persons and non-disabled persons, all the contributions withdrawn are accounted for as a market cost in the case of disabled companies. Only then are they allocated to a special account and used exclusively for the purposes of training and employment of persons with disabilities, which is regulated by Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain types of aid compatible with the internal market in the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty. Therefore, any use of these State aids for the salaries of non-disabled persons is illegal and sanctioned. Justification of the measure by reasoning that the burden on the salaries of non-disabled persons is equivalent does not change the fact that the measure affects the overall development potential of the disabled undertaking and its ability to compete on the market in crisis situations due to the nature of the acquisition and use of these funds. If, from the point of view of national remuneration management, there is an irregularity in the operation of individual disabled companies, the competent national authorities should take appropriate action on the basis of existing legal provisions, they shall already be given sufficient powers. It is reckless and unfair, however, that all disabled companies do not have the same conditions for management and that those disabled companies operating at a higher technological level are more burdened and have a higher added value. From the entire envisaged package of government measures in the field of the economy, the measure taken in relation to disabled companies is the most far-reaching and at the same time the most contrary to the basic objective, which is to relieve the economy. The main question is also why this fiscal measure for 2015 is becoming a permanent measure. The adoption of the law is also problematic because it does not take stock of all the positive changes that have been introduced by the already cited Regulation of the European Union. Disability companies are objectively an integral part of the social economy, supported by systemic measures also within the European Union, which calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to alter the conditions of the management of disabled companies without adequate analysis and to assess and evaluate their importance in a comprehensive manner from the perspective of economic policy in Slovenia. For all of this, the Council of State has adopted a request for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I urge you to study this request well and decide otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u3	The request was addressed by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u4	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Minister! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This Regulation was adopted by the National Assembly following an urgent procedure submitted by the Government at its 3rd meeting on 16 December 2014. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives of the State Council, representatives of the Government with the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia. In its introduction, the representative of the State Council presented in more detail the reasons for the request for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. In her presentation of the opinion, the Minister said that the Government supported the objectives of the law and briefly presented the individual reasons for rejecting the State Council's arguments. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service also concluded that the State Council’s arguments in the request for re-decision do not concern questions related to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legal regime which are of a substantive nature, which means that it goes beyond the framework of the Legislative and Legal Service. The debate followed where the proponents set up a decision-making requirement that the Government, as the bill-maker, did not provide convincing justification to demonstrate the urgency of the procedure and the envisaged financial impact of the measure in terms of budgetary balance. The view was also expressed that such measures should be thoroughly examined, as they constitute the employment of disabled persons with added value in society, and enable disabled persons to be more easily integrated into society than they are. In view of the many arguments put forward by opponents of the State Council, which cautioned that some abuses occur in disabled companies, it was stressed that this should be addressed with the competent services, the inspection, in the long term and in a lasting manner. The Minister stressed that this measure does not limit the number of employees or the level of wages. It limits only the level of contributions for non-disabled salaries in disabled companies. Disabled companies will only be exempt from payment of social security contributions up to three times the minimum wage for non-disabled workers. Only up to EUR 2 000 367.45. The country could also reduce the amount of State aid allowed by the EU and reduce and limit their consumption, but it has not decided on such a measure, and the European Regulation in the Republic of Slovenia is fully applicable. That's essential. The state is in charge of a disability protection policy to the best of its ability. But the fact is, there are always things that can and can be improved. So is this rule. At the end of the debate, it was pointed out that the law was good, but it was right that it should be supplemented or changed in future if there were major problems in practice. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of all members: the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u5	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposaler of the law, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of State! Much has been said about this law. Perhaps it is right that this assembly should be informed, before deciding again, of certain facts, primarily in order to get this feeling of interference with the rights of persons with disabilities, to destroy employment in disabled companies, to make a little bit of a perspective of numbers and away from emotions. The fact is, we were 30. 11. 2014 in our country employed 31 000 737 people with disabilities. Of these, 5 000 812 were employed in disabled companies. There is a special arrangement in disabled companies, and the state withdraws social contributions for both disabled persons and non-disabled persons. In 2013, the amount of this subsidy, which relates to State aid, amounted to around 44 million. Most of the subsidies for the employment of a disabled person are at a monthly level of EUR 730, while for a disabled person in a non-disabled company this is significantly lower and around EUR 70. On the existing data, we gave 44 million in 2013 in terms of decommissioned contributions to disabled companies. On the basis of the salaries that are known in September, the restriction we place on non-disabled persons on a three-fold minimum wage of €2 000 367 but the estimate is that state aid for disabled companies, which is 141 in our country, will be 3 million less. I would like to point out that this is about the numbers that were in September. Let us look at some very important facts. When we look at Furs' data, we find that wages in disabled companies, which are higher than EUR 2 000 367 gross for non-disabled persons, that such individuals are 603 and that we are talking about their average salary of EUR 3 000 447 and that the country will still co-finance 68% of these in terms of contributions. The fact is, we also have some very high profits in disabled companies. I think you probably agree that there is no need for the state to pay up to 15,000 and more euros in full contributions. I would point out, however, that this does not mean that disabled companies can adapt in this way, and I believe that instead of EUR 15 000 they will hire more people with lower wages and receive contributions in full, which means they can reach the same level of state aid. I would like to point out that this is data based on wages in September 2014 that the estimate is that 3 million euros will be saved. There is no way that the facts exist, even if wages persist, because we probably all agree that this is an economic society in which there is no way to intervene with the level of wage limitation, but it is only right to say to what extent the state pays social security contributions in full. However, it is important that, by expanding the number of employees, they can also transfer this amount of subsidies in another way, if I say so. And another interesting piece of information. When we look at how these 44 million euros were, because of the state aid distributed, in 2013 the largest share is almost 83%, it is the wages of non-disabled people, while the additional costs incurred by hiring disabled persons are distributed around 3.64%, and investment in premises and equipment is only, which is understandable, I do not give any valuable judgment, but it goes to 13.41%. And another thing that's already happened four times is the regulation that came into force with 1. Seven. 2014, which was directly applicable by the European Union, which lays down rules for the entire internal market, in our legal order. This law before you, too, is [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate...]] Therefore, there are no differences for disabled companies in relation to the general group exemptions in force on the internal market. I think that these are the reasons that today without bad conscience, without having the feeling that you are interfering with the rights of disabled persons in the labour market, support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and, on its behalf, Mr Marijan Pojbič have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u8	Your Honor! In front of us is the decision on the veto of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has put into the legislative procedure by emergency procedure and from the system of disabled enterprises takes about EUR 3 million, i.e. about one tenth of what the whole public sector will contribute to financial consolidation. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia voted veto for the reasons already mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party, namely that the sole purpose of the law is to save people with disabilities who are employed in disabled companies. It is a matter of taking away part of public funds from disabled companies, which are formed as means of purpose and are used exclusively for the purposes of training and employment of disabled persons in disabled companies. This creates an added value for disabled people, who would otherwise be more dependent on state aid. The Council of State states: "The explanation of this measure is objectively, substantively and formally misleading, as it does not claim that only economic benefits for non-disabled wages are being reduced. All withdrawn contributions from both disabled persons and non-disabled persons shall be accounted for as a market cost and shall only be excluded from the special account and used solely for the purposes of training and employment of disabled persons, which is uniformly regulated by the EU Commission Regulation of 17 July 2014. Any use of these State aids for non-disabled salaries shall be lawful and sanctioned." Although the coalition by this law lays down a limit for the exemption of the payment of the contribution only for workers with disabilities in disabled companies, this clearly means a reduction in the resources for the employment of disabled persons themselves. Therefore, according to the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, these contributions are accounted for separately and remain intended for the employment of persons with disabilities. We therefore have before us a new proposal for a law containing additional burden on disabled companies, both in financial terms and in terms of added value, because the measure is directed at those workers in disabled companies who represent added value in terms of employment of highly qualified personnel, from whom disabled persons gain work experience and who create added value for disabled companies. In the first examinations of the law, we have pointed out that the calculations of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia show that, taking into account all the factors, the state devotes only 27.49 euros per month to an employed disabled person, which is significantly lower than the amounts that the State would give to these same unemployed persons through social transfers. The proposal for a law on the left-hand side of the policy option has already introduced a second law within four years, which unwarrantedly, without a clear objective and irresponsiblely burdens disabled companies. The bill is not in line with the social partners. The government obviously had no serious intention of finding a common goal with disabled companies or justifying this intervention for any other reason than saving on disabled companies. We can see that, on the one hand, the Government has given in to the public sector in the implementation of fiscal policy and, on the other hand, is implementing austerity measures where this is least fair or even irrational. In the light of all that is stated in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u9	The word shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and in its name mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Even after examining the reasons why the State Council opposes the law, in our parliamentary group we still assess that the law is appropriate and appropriate, and in particular that it does not jeopardise the existence or further development of disabled companies. So it's not harmful to disabled companies. The essence of this novelty, as well as the core of the problem-stricken state council, is to reduce or limit the exemption from social contributions to non-disabled persons employed in disabled companies. As we know, disability companies that employ up to 40% of people with disabilities are now fully exempt from contributions or are paid by the State to the social treasury, that is, the budget or, if you wish, otherwise, by all taxpayers. The novel under consideration does not touch that. However, those disabled companies, which reach the quota of 50% disabled persons, are exempt under the current legislation from payment of contributions to all categories of workers, i.e. to persons with disabilities and to persons with disabilities. For these companies, however, the novelty in question interferes with the payment of contributions in a way that limits the amount of State contribution, namely those salaries which are higher than the minimum wage of three times the minimum wage. So, unlike the gross salary of EUR 2 000 367, this share of social contributions will be covered by the new disability companies themselves. From the material provided by the Ministry of Labour, it is clear that of all non-disabled employees who are 5 000 411, 603 receive a salary higher than three times the minimum wage. The majority in the Desus Group seem to be acceptable and justified in view of the state's public finances. In particular, in view of the fact that, following an amendment to the law in the direction of full exemption of payments of contributions to both categories of workers for the quota of 50% of employment of disabled persons, most disabled companies have moved to this quota and that the level of non-disabled salaries is on average much higher than those of disabled persons. As stated at the adoption of the law last week at the National Assembly in the position of the United Nations Group of Ambassadors, it is for disabled companies for companies where the economic function must be subordinated to social ones. Yes, in this we agree in our Group of Members. And this is precisely why, despite the fact that the jobs in the city are of higher value added, we were very surprised by the data on the remuneration of some management staff in some disabled companies. Here the social note of such a disabled company sort of fades, I think. And I'd like to remind you of the following. In addition to the exemption from social contributions that disabled companies will continue to have, but to a somewhat limited extent, these companies also have a range of other types of State aid and subsidies in such a way that it is not possible to claim that the state is machete-like towards these companies or vulnerable groups. It is also argued that the proposed measure will affect the overall development potential of disabled companies and their ability to compete on the market, excessively. Since the reasons cited by the veto proposer are not, in our opinion, justified, we will once again vote in favour of the amendment by Members and Members of the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats and, on its behalf, by Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At its 12th extraordinary meeting with a fairly narrow majority, 16 votes in favour and 13 against, the Council of State accepted the request that the Proposal for a Amendment to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities be reconsidered. The veto voted requires us to reconsider the matter under consideration. That is why we have carefully examined the explanation of the State Council in the Group of Social Democrats. We have found that the applicant's arguments do not deviate from the views of the opponents of the proposal for a new law, which we have been informed of in the previous proceedings. Since last week, when we strongly supported the proposal, no new circumstances have arisen until today's re-decision, which would serve as a basis for a different decision. More. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities provided data at this morning's meeting of the Committee, which strengthens us in the belief that the bill is a good one, since, in an appropriate way, it does not harm the disabled to prevent the anomalies allowed by the law. Let's just remember what this is all about. The law provides that disabled companies with at least 50 % of the disabled and those with between 40 % and 50 % of the disabled workers are exempt from pension and disability contributions, health insurance and parental care for all employed workers, i.e. in addition to disabled persons. However, by adopting this proposal, we limit the payment of contributions to disabled companies only to those who have a net salary of EUR 2 000. It follows from publicly available data that a positive measure, primarily designed as a form of incentive for the employment of persons with disabilities, is in several cases taking advantage of the opportunity to pay incomparably high wages of non-disabled persons. While this is perfectly legal, any intervention in the wages of non-disabled persons in companies is not possible and it is right to set a limit to which amounts of non-disabled persons will be covered by the State's contributions. In other words, we limit the payment of contributions to disabled companies to all non-disabled persons with a net salary of EUR 2 000 and more. It is also correct that, in order to clarify the misleading allegations that occur in the public: for the first time, the fact is that in most disabled companies, non-disabled persons have higher salaries than the disabled, and for the second time, the employer will pay contributions for non-disabled persons after the law has been enforced, and for those who pay more than EUR 972 net. However, even when the salary exceeds the amount mentioned above, the employer for a non-disabled employee will not pay full contributions, which means that part of the relief, if we can say so, remains for non-disabled workers. The employer will therefore have to pay the employer's contributions as well as the employee for all non-disabled workers whose salaries are higher than the amount already mentioned. The proposed law is therefore without prejudice to the rights and situation of disabled workers. Nothing changes for them, as the exemptions for the payment of both employers and employees will continue to apply in an unaltered form. We will therefore support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u13	The text shall be given by the United Left Group and, on its behalf, by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u14	Dear Mr. President, the House of Respect! Thank you for your word. The government proposes to limit the payment of contributions to non-disabled workers to salaries that are less than three times the average gross wage. This measure is socially just at first sight – but only at first sight. The dismissal of the employer's contributions does not benefit employees with high wages, but a disabled company as a whole. From the point of view of the operation of a disabled company, from the point of view of the social function to which the assets held are used, it is entirely irrelevant whether this exemption is linked to the salaries of non-disabled persons or to anything else, the funds are important. State aid therefore makes it possible to employ workers who are not able to obtain employment in conventional companies and are at the same time one of the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. The measure is therefore socially unfair and does not have sound public financial proposals. In response to the State Council, the government indicated that disability companies using more demanding technologies would lose around 10% of the current state aid due to the proposed measure. Many disabled companies already operate at the cost of profitability. The Institute of Disabled Enterprises has calculated that disabled companies without State aid would operate with a high loss, which means that many would no longer operate. Last week, the Minister of Labour tried to reduce the importance of this measure by stating that less than 20% of disabled persons are employed in disabled companies. Most of them work in the so-called open market. However, this is often the case for different categories of disabled workers who could not obtain employment in the open market. Statistics confirm the assumption that the market is hated by disabled companies. The number of disabled workers employed in the open market has decreased by 6.4% since 2006 and the number of disabled workers employed in disabled companies by more than 14%. Support to these companies is therefore insufficient or inadequate. And unfortunately, it's not a mistake, it's a systemic approach. Also for this government, the issue of disabled people, as a social issue at all, is often not a priority and is ready to sacrifice them immediately to achieve the Maastricht criteria. A month ago, the majority of the national council, for example, adopted a 2014 budget rebalancing in which defence spending increased by 1.7 %, while reducing them to support employment and rehabilitation and equalising opportunities for people with disabilities. The fact that the two previous governments wanted to privatise the only remaining disabled companies still owned by the majority of the country also shows what the attitude towards disabled companies is. Instead of minimally protecting them against competition, they are at risk of speculative liquidation. We hope that this government will not continue in this direction. The 2015 budget proposal, endorsed by the European Commission, is full of such anti-social measures, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. The government has consciously decided to save the weak instead of socially fair and economically meaningful measures. If we look at the current case. In this case, the government considers that three times the minimum wage, i.e. a good EUR 2 000 300 grossly high salary, but on the other hand, higher taxes on three out of five percent of the best paid salaries are resisted. Why? Obviously, it is not in the interests of the majority of citizens or at least the majority of its constituents, but in the interest of those three out of five percent of the best paid to protect them with such policies. The problems that this measure is intended to address and, in general, the government deficit will only be reduced by increasing capital and asset income taxes, corporate income tax and the introduction of normal property taxes. The deficit will be reduced by strict transaction taxation [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] tax havens, however, are not allowed to be reduced by measures that will affect the groups of the most vulnerable workers. [[…]] That's why we won't support the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats and on her behalf, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u16	Honourable President, Minister with Colleagues, State Councillor, Colleagues and Colleagues! The Council of State has raised the same reservations regarding the proposal for a law on employment rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, as we have recently presented them in public. We are still surprised that on the priority list of measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to achieve the fiscal objectives of the budget, it is precisely a measure that brings about a change or elimination of the exemption from social security contributions, namely health and pension insurance for workers with disabilities in disabled companies. Our opinions also confirm and strengthen the rejection opinions of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia and the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia. Both of you warn the applicants that the proposed measure will affect all disabled companies, despite the fact that the obligation to pay social security contributions will only be imposed on those companies where the disabled are employed. In its request for re-decision on this law, the Council of State even explicitly states that the explanation of the proposed measure is objectively, substantively and formally misleading. Disability companies have found it more difficult to maintain competitiveness, but they have generally survived well during difficult times of crisis. Since changes in the economic environment are too common, economists also point to the impossible strategic long-term planning for the development of these companies. The economy needs to be unloaded, and this is all the more so for disabled companies. Christian Democrats hope that, with these warnings from the general public, the proponents or coalition parties who have expressed themselves in this request of the Council of State for Redecision have thought this through, and have come to realize your mistake. Members of New Slovenia will not be supported by the law in the re-decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u17	Mr Jani Möderndorfer shall have the floor of the Alliance's Group of Members and on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u18	Hello! In fact, it is good that the State Council made this move and decided to veto this law. Especially because I believe that, after the last debate we held in the National Assembly, there were quite a few unfaithful Tomažs in view of the debate that took place in the debate itself, as well as later in the explanation of the vote, and some people really thought that it was about taking money from people with disabilities and similar nonsense. Today, the Committee held a debate mainly in the direction of confronting views on the measure proposed by the Government or the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. I must say that we have a very clear view in the alliance that the arguments that are going primarily to support and put an end to the validity of this law are not possible because the arguments simply did not stand. That is why we will support this law in the Alliance, because it is right at the final stage that certain things begin to change. Too many years have passed and too many years have dominated the view that anything with a disability is also untouchable. True, there are many things that do not have to do with disability, not with everything that is meant to do so. So here I can only say in essence bravo for courage, because it is the first minister who has managed to take at least one step forward to clear up certain matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u19	The SMC Group and Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished Minister, representative of the Council of State, distinguished colleague and colleague! The main amendment to the law relates to the exemption from the payment of contributions to non-disabled workers in disabled companies, which has led to quite a few objections in society. In doing so, we must point out that this measure, in our opinion, will not affect the employment policy of most of the professional staff for working with persons with disabilities and the implementation of development tasks in these companies. Therefore, we also believe that the negative effects on the operation of disabled companies will not, and with the proposed amendments, remain fundamental principles on which the Employment Rehabilitation Act is based, unchanged. Disability companies are those with 50% of the disabled and disabled companies with at least a third of the disabled and are also exempt from social security contributions for non-disabled workers. This bill establishes the maximum non-disabled payment for which disabled companies continue to be exempt from social security contributions, and this limit is placed on a three-fold minimum wage of EUR 2 000 367. We must therefore stress that the facilitation of the payment of contributions remains in the form of an exemption. In contrast to the actual salary paid and the minimum wage paid three times, disabled companies will have to pay social security contributions only for non-disabled workers. In the proposal for a law, we must also mention that it simplifies the reporting procedures for the use of state aid. In doing so, we must point out that the amendments to the law do not affect the purpose of the law, this is to increase the social inclusion of persons with disabilities and to ensure their equal participation in the labour market by creating appropriate jobs and working conditions and transferring resources from passive to active employment measures. This leaves 11 thousand 250 disabled and 4 thousand 800 non-disabled. By this law, however, the country places a limit beyond which it is no longer willing to recognise exemption from contributions, namely 600 non-disabled workers with an average salary of EUR 3 000 400. In this way it motivates leaders in these companies to economically decide to hire more non-disabled persons or young professionals or disabled persons who will not sometimes have such an unreasonablely high salary. The SMC Group therefore supports the proposal to amend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-12-23-SDZ7-Izredna-08.ana.u21	We have completed the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups and are moving on to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 26. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item as well as the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
