ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 55th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Romana Tomc, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Maša Kociper, Mr Srečko Meh, Mr Robert Hrovat, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Ivan Simčič, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Bojan Starman, Mr Jože Veliki, Mr Peter Wilphan, Mr Mirko Brulc, Mr Franz Bogovic and Mr Michael Prevc. At the meeting I invited Minister Tina Komel to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 55th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 19 February 2014 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest to the assembly that today's meeting be set the agenda as you received by reference. We are moving on to a decision and before we decide, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 55th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under the item, the President of the Government was informed of Tina Komel's resignation from the post of Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. The President of the Magnificent Government. Alenka Bratušek wrote to me by letter of 13. 2. 2014 informed that Tina Komel has resigned from her post as Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. In this part, I'm asking if Minister Tina Komel would like a word. You have the floor to explain your resignation, five minutes. For the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! In the last few days, I've been struggling with the windmills for a long time. The wind was too strong and in pursuit of all the goals set and predicted was well-started and the successful work continued in vain. With my head up and positive energy, I am returning to the National Assembly, because I was elected and selected in my home Istria and with these people, with my constituents, so I will concentrate fully and try to preserve their trust. I wish for unforgettable fellows beyond our borders such remarkable pride and much success in building up their mission. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say, "Great politics is just as big a circus." Thank you. /Applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u3	I thank the Minister for her explanation. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Tini Komel has ceased to serve as Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Tina Komel shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Allow me to thank Tina Komel for her work on this occasion, and I wish her much success in her future career. This concludes point 1.a. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the selection committee to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of the President of the Commission to prevent corruption. The referral of the decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. He's quitting. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor signed a public call for the election of the President and two KPK vice-presidents as early as the beginning of December of last year following the spectacular resignation of the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption. Within 30 days, the competent institutions appointed their members of the selection commission, including the National Assembly, which approved Member Melito Župevc as a member of this commission at its 20th regular meeting on 19 December 2013. We had already expressed our hope in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the new members of the Senate, namely the President and Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, would do their work better, more consistently, especially professionally and non-politically. We have also expressed our doubts that this will indeed be because of the composition of the electoral commission, which is expected to propose to the President of the Republic of Slovenia a candidate for President and Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and that the selection of new members of the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption is likely to be only a representation for the public. The selection committee consists of five members: one member is appointed by the Government, one State Assembly, non-profit organisations, the Council of Justice and the Council of Officials. We have already come to understand from this that the political impact on the appointment of the new Senate of the Commission will be extremely high and that there is little chance that the representative of the opposition will be appointed as a member of the Election Commission. We expected the members of the Mandate-Election Commission, which decided between the two candidates, the candidate of the coalition and the opposition candidates, to follow the principle of political balance, and the committee which will assess who is most suitable for appointing Presidential and Vice-Presidential posts in the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption instead of the Member of Positive Slovenia, to propose a Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Jožeta Tanka. This would be done in a politically wise manner, as it would be elegantly avoided by possible indications of political bias in appointing a new President of the Commission to prevent corruption and two vice-presidents. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Day 4. 2. 2014 President of the Election Commission for the selection of suitable candidates for the President and Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Dr Polonca Kovac, informed the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor that the Electoral Commission had completed its work and concluded its mandate. According to the Commission, among the 55 registered candidates, 35 have shown compliance with the conditions under Article 7, paragraph 2, of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. With regard to eligibility, the electoral commission provided only a list of candidates for the Vice-President of the Anti-Corruption Commission and proposed six candidates and candidates, including Yuri Fermet, Jožet Kovac, Uroš Novak, Dark Staret, Jožica Vavpotič Srakar and Alma Maruško Sedlar. Since the electoral commission does not propose to the President of the Republic to elect a new candidate for President of the Commission, the President of the Republic has decided to repeat the procedure only for the selection of the candidate or candidate for President of the Commission, while the two deputies are to be elected from the six candidates already mentioned. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that Ambassador Melita Župevc is not a suitable candidate for re-election as a member of the election commission, whose task will be to propose to the President of the State, Borut Pahor, or candidate for the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, because, as President of the Mandate-Elect Commission, who, under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, is responsible for the exercise of control over the assets of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Commission, does not respect or implement the provisions of Article 20 and 21 of the previous Act, and consequently, together with the Coalition Members and Members of Parliament, is unable to complete the procedure for the supervision of the assets of the outgoing President, the Commission for the prevention of corruption of Mr Klemenčič, and for the other two members of the Chamber, the procedure has not yet begun. The mandate-holder committee shall be acting by means of an electoral procedure of 19. 2. 2014 re-adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that Member of the Election Commission be appointed as Ambassador of Positive Slovenia, Melito Župevc. Unfortunately, we cannot support such a proposed decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u5	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. However, Mrs Melita Župevc wants to make a procedural proposal before I give the floor to the Members or Members of Parliament. Here you go, Mrs. Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the fact that the debater or the lady representing the position of the SDS Group did not point out that in her position or the position of the Group of Members, she should not argue with others, because Mrs Sonja Ramšak gave a valuable judgment on what was going on at the meetings of the Commission of Mandate. The President of the Commission on Elections, i.e. I think, has said that I do not respect the law when it comes to overseeing the assets of the President of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. I therefore expect that I have the opportunity to explain that: I respect the law because I cannot argue with it because it represented the position of the Group of Members; even more, I was the one who ensured that this procedure was carried out as it should, in the letter of the law, but we can discuss hours and hours in this House what the previous President, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, had done and how she had violated not one but more laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u7	Thank you. I think that, through this procedural proposal, we can find that, while it has been rightly pointed out that debates are not really allowed in the positions of the parliamentary groups, and I also understand this procedural warning, which I think was even more effective than I would have tried to point out, because I did not know the details of how this took place on the Commission's mandate. The procedural proposal, if I have correctly observed, also wishes Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u8	Thank you very much. It would be good if the application of the procedural proposal made by Mrs Župevc could be explained when she applied for the debate on this item on the agenda. I see there is no debate. However, as regards the position of the Group of Members, I think that this case was based on facts. It is said that the position of the Group of Members is fully and verifiable. The process of control of the assets of the President of the Commission's anti-corruption Senate was indeed led by the former President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission until March or April, but it will now be almost a year from the new President. The sessions are extremely rare, and the ones that are are closed. In closed work, we also made a request or addressed a request for disclosure of these records in undisputed parts. There's no answer. They're out of hands. The information officer also replied that it was reasonable to do so because this did not happen. It is without connection to the position of the Group in this way. Let the deal be made to the place as regards the control of the property situation, and also to investigate or review the assets of the other members of the Senate to prevent corruption. But everything else is, I'll say, abusing anything. The agenda item is intended for the actual procedure for appointing a member of the Commission to prevent corruption under the quota of the National Assembly, which is one of five. In fact, the opposition in this structure does not have any possibility, because even in the rest of the composition it is called the one who has the majority – in this case it is the Government – that is, the one from the Official Council as well as someone else. In short, the coalition will also choose in this case someone who is likely to be able to agree to apply for this competition, which will be repeated by the President. In short, it doesn't make sense, Mr President, that you allow this kind of controversy. It would be much better if we asked Mrs Melito Župevc, President of the Commission on Elections, why the records of the hearings or the supervision of Mr Klemenčič's assets would not reveal themselves because they are hardly necessary in any way to keep them closed to the public. I don't know why this procedure is taking so long. That's a key question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u9	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out that in the views of the members of the groups, there are no debates which are linked, for example, to the report of the Committee, in which case this is a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Here was the correct warning. Of course, it always happens that more is added in this explanation. It would probably be most appropriate if it were reported for discussion, then also below, say, Mrs Župevc, and would explain some things. The same goes for your proposal, Mr Tanko. You have also gone beyond the context of this Decision, and in fact this procedural proposal has been further applied to some other content which is not directly related to this Decision. This is a practice that I hope that we may be able to agree, at some stage, to cut down on one minute of procedural proposals precisely for the reason that we focus on a procedural proposal rather than on discussions. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President. In this national assembly, we have proven several times that we will not be able to agree on what you have proposed to agree on, because some have no interest in negotiating. And the fact that lies continue to appear in this temple, and these are very serious lies that are worrying. In his procedural proposal or debate, Mr Tanko said one big, fat lie. This, however, is that the SDS, when Mrs Ramshakova MVK was still in charge of proposing that, of course, with the majority of the ruling coalition at the time, they closed the MVK meeting at their request. Now they're explaining that we don't want to open it if they shut it down. I really ask you, Mr Tanko: for the first time, do not abuse the procedural proposal for your lies. At least use the debate so that we can talk about these things in a good way. And second, more importantly: President, you're the only one who has access to all the records and you know what's going on on all these things. We must ask for this when entering closed records and only with your permission do we have this access enabled. That's why you can stop Mr. Tank because you know he's telling a lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u11	Thank you. I propose that we come to the debate of Members on the proposal for a decision, which first has the word mags. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, it is very difficult to talk about current matters, since of course it is full of emotions, perceptions, accusations, and so on. However, there is something to suggest that we should do differently in order to achieve different results. It is very rare that a renegade minister or minister would receive a round of applause from the opposition, which is what happened today. Why? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u13	Mr Vogrin, I must remind you that we are already at point b, namely the decision to appoint a member of the selection committee to elect the suitable candidates for the appointment of the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and you must remain at this point, you cannot discuss the preliminary.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u14	Mr President, this is exactly what I'm talking about! I'm talking about exactly how we as the National Assembly are working. And Winston Churchill expressed the deep thought, "The truths that would be most useful to us, we defend them most." What I'm talking about will benefit all of us, because the lady has set up a mirror for our work. Let's start working differently, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! All that has happened and is happening with regard to this selection committee, all this procedure somehow confirms that for the current coalition, what has happened is what some of the senior politicians of the previous regime have said: Human resources policy is key for us, for the Union of Communists. And that is confirmed again today. But I signed up for the word because I'm kind of glad it happened today. In fact, in my opinion, this election commission has received, in fact, should be given a mistrust in the previous composition – now proposed by the same people – which has not proposed out of 55 candidates a suitable candidate for the presidency of the Anti-Corruption Commission. Indeed, it is evident here that it was intentional to delay, to make procedures more difficult with some deep backgrounds and deeper reasons. I agree that Župevčeva's colleague is a very suitable candidate for such a view of human resources policy and such a view on the fight against corruption. For the first time, she knows the pool of the coalition very well because she has participated or was already a member of several parties, in several presidential campaigns I think that too, and after this criterion she has an absolutely wide view of these parties' human resources. On the other hand, it is extremely useful because we have been able to see through this selection what the criteria are, who are the strong people inside, I would say, the political basketball tandem Möderndorfer-Jankovic. And that we have also learned a little about how to make a list for the European elections. Actually, it's almost part of the same thing. Through this we have gained insight into these fights within Positive Slovenia for the position on the list for European elections and who [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u17	Mr Jerovšek, but really this point has nothing to do with European elections, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u18	It has a very big connection, Mr. President, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u19	I also remind you that it remains at the time of the decision to appoint a member [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u20	I'm sorry you don't notice, I'm sorry. [[…]] Of course, strong people decide here, and this tandem Möderndorfer-Jankovic is extremely strong because of the power of this tandem and the key decision, which, for example, is eliminated from this list and other lists, I am surprised that today the Positive Slovenia has not made a changeable proposal. He's got even stronger men with this tandem. One of these is Mr. Zoran Predin. He could make it even more effective to determine who could come to the election as president of the fight against corruption, which is how he supervised last night, so seemingly that I am surprised that you did not immediately change your proposal and that the whole of Slovenia would be clear on how to decide here and who are the most powerful people, not only intellectually, but physically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u21	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! One of the elected members of the previous composition or the uncontested composition of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Končan said that he would not participate in such a commission as he had been elected, because there were clear political intentions of the Commission's action to prevent corruption. Mr Končan, a member of the National Assembly, resigned for these reasons. The procedure for appointing a Commission Senate to prevent corruption is, in some ways, predictable. The Commission shall be five-member. The five-member committee is appointed by the Government of one member, the Official Council, which is called the Government, gives one member, and the National Assembly, which is controlled by the coalition, is said to read the Government, appoints another member. This is said to be the ruling coalition of three out of five members of the selection commission. This happened the previous time and was similar to the composition of the National Assembly and similar composition of the coalition and this is happening now. The opposition does not even have a symbolic opportunity to participate in the election of a Senate to prevent corruption. In view of the fact that it was declared in this selection procedure at the invitation of the President of the Republic of 55 candidates and that none of those who met the conditions was eligible or assessed as fit to serve as the President of the KPK, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, it follows the logical conclusion that no one was politically fit to perform this function, since the professional references were all fulfilled. The problem that I see for myself is that there is no list of those who have applied and those who have met the conditions and who have been rejected on the part of the President of the Republic. That's the problem. I must say that this is obviously not the only case where this is happening, but also in this case this Commission's selection process to prevent corruption will be repeated for so long that politically acceptable persons for the ruling coalition will come out. What are the results of the work of such a commission acting on the basis of Mr Končan's findings and the procedures that take place in the National Assembly and even then in the selection of the Commission as a whole? The work of such a commission is probably politically motivated, cannot be impartial, cannot be independent, but can only be politically motivated. Because this is the way the Commission is made up to prevent corruption, some procedures are being processed very quickly also on the basis of suspicions, even on the basis of unfounded suspicions. Some who have the facts in the background, such as airline tickets, have not been completed for almost a year, nor has the reporter been made. This is also why some employment cases have been processed by an elaboratory and a report, a special report by the KPK, because these are some family members of officials who are not suitable for this or are pretty enough. In other cases, this does not happen as if they are not — and so on. That things do not go well enough and transparently, it also shows how our January requirements should be dealt with when, by law, not on the basis of a requirement, the assets of members of the KPK Senate should be dealt with. Nothing happens. Procedures are drawn up, reports of obstructions appear, and so on, people are not participating, meetings are convened to ask us to deliver some paper and so on and so on – nothing! The coalition has everything in hand in this case: sufficient voting power in the committee because the difference is extremely large, enough power in the National Assembly, but the procedures do not end. We haven't even started some. We also received the report with great delay, we receive the annual reports of the KPK. What is the consequence, what is the step, what is the sanction? Nothing – extension of the mandate, despite their resignation. Such a selection commission, which enables such work, and also our member, cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u23	Thank you. The procedural proposal has a mag. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u24	I am sorry, Mr President, but I have no other option, since you again allowed Mr Tank to argue with me and evaluate the work of the Mandate- volitional Commission. Mr. Tanko speaks lies in the National Assembly, and I have no choice but to speak through a procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u25	Well, it would be a possibility if we applied for a discussion earlier. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u26	No, look, Mr Weber, if Mr Tank is allowed to speak lies in Parliament, they must be answered. I will not answer to Mr Tank, I will be so correct that I will not answer when he judged how this selection committee was doing. How does she know how this election committee worked? The electoral commission worked behind closed doors. If you have any information on how this committee worked, please let them know to the public. The fact that you're saying publicly that he wasn't proposed [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u27	Mrs. Župevcheva, I must remind you, however, that in the case of a procedural proposal [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u28	Mr. Weber [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u29	try to stay with the procedure [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u30	Mr Weber, Mr President [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u31	The proposal, because Mr Tank's debate was and should be limited to assessing what kind of commission it was very difficult. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u32	Mr Weber, Mr President, if we wanted to stop Mr Tank from telling lies because he was talking about a commission that couldn't defend itself in the National Assembly, because she finished her work and forwarded her findings to the President of the Republic, we could have interrupted him, but Mr Tank, because he has special privileges in this House, is allowed to abuse procedural proposals to tell lies and something else, unfortunately. That's why it's never gonna be different.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Tanko, if it is indeed a procedural proposal, then it makes sense, but otherwise I think you have had the opportunity to discuss the Procedural Proposal, Mr Jože Tanko. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, you've got it right. From the point of view of the Member, my debate was quite correct. I was talking about the procedure, including the selection procedure, the composition of the selection committee, which is the subject of the law. I don't care what kind of procedure he was, but in the end, we know that 55 people were chosen, no one explained why. That is to say, if there were a bunch of candidates there who met the professional terms and criteria of the public call, then someone should explain why no one was fit to perform the function. And given that three members are appointed under the quota of the government coalition, government or government coalition, of the five, other reasons if the experts were met as political probably not. And as a member of the National Assembly, I guess I can figure out how the procedures are going. I'll find out. However, if a member of this selection committee under the quota of the National Assembly is the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, who, by the way, is also in charge of the identification or control of the property situation of the President of the PSC, then this is a second question. But it would be our duty to assign what we call to report what was happening there. That's why we named him. The National Assembly has no choice but to repeat the procedures for appointment to this selection committee for so long that our member of the selection committee will be the one who will say, "Here, this one is appropriate." Other candidates who apply are likely to meet the same professional criteria if there is any other criterion that does not exist in the tendering procedure, then this should appear in the tendering procedure. However, if the only criterion in this case is that it is also politically appropriate, then we do not need any tendering procedures, but let the Government simply appoint a KPK Senate. It's done! It's gonna be a political appointment! Very clear. Also, the next procedure to be considered, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u35	Mr. Tanko, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u36	running things so much the same. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u37	If I understand correctly, your procedural proposal is that a member of this selection committee report to the National Assembly, and if that is the case, then it would probably make sense for you to try to discuss this on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. [[…]] [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u38	Mr President, my procedural proposal is that what happened with Mrs Zupevčev's proposal for a procedural proposal before me is actually an attack on the debate of Members; the debate of a sovereign Member. Anything else connected with this is also a false attack with false arguments on the Member's debate. If my debate doesn't hold, they've had it all. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The possibility for members of the Positive Slovenia to apply for the debate, as we have done, until 9 a.m. today was the deadline. They didn't do it, and now they're dealing with someone who told some truth. That's not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u39	Thank you. I really hope that this debate can be held within the framework of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and that this information is being exchanged, but today we certainly cannot clear this up through the procedural proposals. All of you who have been reported to the debate have received the floor and I therefore conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for a member of the selection committee to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of the President of the Commission for the prevention of corruption mag. Melito Zupevec. Can we make a decision? Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u40	A respected choir! The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support Melita Župevc's proposal for two reasons. First, because essentially the commission is halfway through work and it's right to end it the way it started, because it's the only one that has a review of what happened in the first part. Therefore, I believe that if any way were to change this proposal, there would probably be such confusion and unnecessary moves as my predecessor has been talking about. And the other reason, for sure, is because, you know, we learned one thing in the National Assembly. Indeed, all these fetishes that the SDS has in the National Assembly and when they suggest that we respect democracy in the way they understand it on the other hand, on their side, of course, can be very serious problematic. We will therefore support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u41	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? In your own name? In his own name, Mr Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I truly expected Mrs Melita Župevc to give up this candidacy on her own because this commission, which was first elected, gave her own confidence because she did not propose a candidate to the President of the Republic. I believe that among the 55 people there were candidates who could perform this function. And this shameful stalling with [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u43	Mr Jerovšek, I must remind you here again that there are no controversy in the explanation of the vote. Tell me why you will vote in favour or against the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u44	Well, I'll point out, but I need to explain my voice why. This is not a matter of personal opposition, absolutely not, it is a capable Member. Absolutely! However, this kitchen, which has happened, is unacceptable to Members of the National Assembly. But I will not vote in favour of this proposal, because this is material proof of what the former Minister has said before, that high policy within Positive Slovenia can also be a major circus. And this is the result of a big circus, as the former minister said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u45	Thank you. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 21. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! It is probably clear to everyone in this Chamber that this meeting was convened solely as a silence for Minister Tina Komel, Minister for Slovenians in place and around the world, and the conclusions she has made here are, in fact, an axiom of action in this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u47	But Mr Tanko, I must remind you that the position of the Group must refer in this case to the State Audit Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u48	A similar circus, as took place in the discharge of the Minister and taking place in the appointment of a member of the KPK Senate, also takes place in this appointment as a member of the State Audit Commission. In fact, in the last few months we have had six times on the agenda of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission to appoint a member for the State Audit Commission. For almost six months, this commission does not work in the complete composition. We have twice chosen a person who was either the only candidate or the only one who met the conditions for appointment. It fell once in the National Assembly, it was former Member of Kocuvan, and last time it was also on the Mandate-Electorial Commission just because the two of them were registered and one of them did not meet the conditions and this Mr Kocuvan was once again the only candidate applied for. By the way, he's always met all the tendering conditions. If the ruling coalition thus represents the functioning of independent institutions of the National Assembly, such as the KPK or the State Audit Commission, so long as selection procedures are repeated to reach the right people, then something is very wrong in this country. Something really wrong. Last time, when you rejected Mr Kocuvan, you repeated this procedure so long that Mrs Mateja Škabar, Member of the Positive Slovenia Group, was appointed as a member of the State Audit Commission. Today, it is likely that a person who is close to another coalition party in this National Assembly will be appointed. In short, the problem is that it is very difficult to ensure the independent work of key institutions, the so-called independent institutions of the country; not the KPC, the anti-corruption Commission, not the State Audit Commission. However, both Commissions play a key role in the evaluation procedures or in the evaluation of political persons or projects. Dear colleagues, it is difficult to accept any other conclusion, such as that for such procedures, which are repeated indefinitely, to choose the right person, what other interest as political interest. The professional criteria, the correctness of the application, the professional criteria are not respected, the person is rejected and the procedure is repeated and repeated for so long that someone from the coalition quota is put on an independent institution. This coalition then boasts the findings and results of the work of these independent institutions. This is a problem that is slightly broader, not only a problem for the country, but also for elsewhere, because this way of interpreting the work and evaluating the work of individuals, companies, companies, journalists and so on, is, I can say, very inappropriate. I must say that we do not support such a way of working as is taking place in this mandate. It is said that one member of the State Audit Commission is chosen six times, it is totally inappropriate. And it does not lead to anything else, as I said earlier in the introduction, than political decisions and political choices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2014-02-20-SDZ6-Izredna-55.ana.u49	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and there is still a debate on the proposal for a decision. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. He's quitting. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. It is also cancelling, so I am closing the debate on the proposal for a decision and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to be taken by the mag. Gregor Šebenik shall appoint a member of the State Audit Commission. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 20. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to identify and assess the functioning of extremist groups. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. In the application for discussion of the draft decision, he may receive the word mag. Ivan Vogrin, who is not currently in the Chamber, is therefore concluding the debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 55th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and good-bye for the next session.
